ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8945	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask that we take our seats to begin with the House of Representatives session. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from today's session was justified by MP Mrijana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, at the moment 39 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum to work and decide. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed for MPs to ask oral questions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure for Asking Parliamentary Questions in Oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Mirko Šarović to the President of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Predrag Kožul to the President of the Council of Ministers; Nenad Nešić to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Šemsudin Mehmedović to the Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH; jasmin Emrić to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Sanja Vulić to the Minister of Security; Branislav Borenović to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH; Snježana Novaković-Bursać to the Minister of Communications and Transport; Aida Baručija Minister of Communications and Transport BiH; Damir Arnaut to the Council of BiH and Ljubica Miljanović to the Minister of Security of BiH. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that the direct TV transmission of this part of the session is ensured in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now I can move on to asking oral questions and giving answers. I give the word to MP Mirko Šarović. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8946	Thank you, Chairman. I think that the answer to this parliamentary question is not adequate, it is clear that BiH has no budget for 2021, that this budget was to be adopted in November, December of last year, and we see that there are no indications for, that this will happen already in February, and I think it is inadmissible, given that we have the Council of Ministers in full two compositions, call together and that other institutions are functioning and that it is obviously something else, rather than some objective, objective reasons that prevent institutions from fulfilling their constitutional obligations within the deadlines that are envisaged, which will certainly reflect the overall budget of 2021. As things stand now, the budgets will probably not be for months, we are forced to finance that is not adjusted, given the pandemic and everything that BiH is waiting for in 2021, I think this is a big minus for executive power, primarily the Council of Ministers of BiH. Since only my comment on this question has been requested, I am dissatisfied with the answers given to Parliament, or to me as an MP. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8947	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, please welcome Mr. Tegeltija.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8948	Thank you very much. Members of the working presidency, gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, media representatives, I would like to welcome you to the beginning of this session today. I'll try to answer the way I understood it, in that written form, I understood that the question was asked about the way the funds were spent for the previous year that we had in our budget positions. From what he's been set up today, there's been a budget for 2021 and a budget for that. Here's to say that the 2021 budget is expected to be held at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, which is after this session of the House of Representatives, it is realistic to expect that by the end of February, before the end of February, it will be held at a meeting of the House of Representatives, that is, when your next regular session is held. I stand at the point of view as I was in the previous adoption of the budget, that the joint institutions must also plan, through the distribution of their funds, one part of the funds for this fight against the pandemic, no matter what form we will do, whether we will spend money on obtaining vaccines, whether we will give economics or the like, but it is all a matter of agreement within BiH. Through the 2021 budget, we will see these positions and, of course, we will say in the budget of the joint institutions there are no credit funds, the pandemic funds can only be planned from the regular budget of the joint institutions. But now that I'm already here to tell you and that, in the previous year in two positions, in this budget that you adopted here, two positions were the funds planned for those purposes, one position was 14.7 million KM, and the other was 27.2 million KM. The first tranche of 14.7 million KM according to the agreement with the prime ministers of the entity and the government of Brcko district has been made available to them in very similar coefficients as agreed on the distribution of funds from the IMF, by increasing the amount of funds for the Brcko district, because we have estimated that they are not enough, that means that the government of the Federation, or the Federation and its cantons, belonged 61% to the funds, to the Republic of Serbia 37% and 2% of the funds were allocated to the Brcko District. In the phase of negotiations on the purchase of the vaccine, when... The Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, assumed the obligation of storage, transport and other vaccine-related obligations in BiH and planned 2 million KM from that position of 27 million KM. The next decision we made in December 10 million KM was made directly back to the governments of the entity and the Brcko district in the same proportions we were doing, and 3 13 million KM we provided to clinical centres in estimates that it was necessary for anyone at which moment... meaning the Clinical Centre in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Mostar, Banja Luka and the hospital in Brcko Dristikt. Therefore, we have committed about 40 million KM from the joint institutions' budgets to entities and Brcko districts to fight the Kovids and to resuscitate the effects of the pandemic caused by COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8949	Thank you to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Predrag Kožul, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8950	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all to the beginning of our session today. The Honorable Chairman of the Joint Committee on Security Agency's work with a request for consultation on the proposal, on your proposal to appoint the Director and Deputy Director of this Agency. I remind these officials that the mandate expired on 19.11.2019, and together with them, the mandate expired to the Chief Inspector at the Intelligence and Security Agency, so I am interested – why did you not propose the appointment of the Chief Inspector in the same proposal? I note, that the appointment of the Chief Inspector is regulated in Article 32 of the Law by the same procedure as the appointment of the Director and his deputy. The same appointment of the Chief Inspector is particularly important, taking into account the provisions of Article 36 of the Law, which prescribes that the Director-General, Deputy and Chief Inspector must be of different constituent peoples. It is also important to me as a member of the Joint Committee to appoint the Chief Inspector and his status, because, by the nature of his work, the Chief Inspector is the main partner of this Joint Commission. I believe that this is a good opportunity for you to also answer, whether your appointment proposal is still standing in view of the newly created and all known circumstances surrounding the status of the current director, but also given the media speculation or statements that I have managed to, uh, hear from you regarding this proposal or the withdrawal of that proposal, and nothing officially as a member of the commission related I didn't win, that's all. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8951	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8952	Thank you very much. Two parts of the issue, the first part on the appointment of the chief inspector and the second issue at which the selection procedure for directors and deputies is staged. The election arrangements for the Director and Deputy Director have been blocked during a period of time, as there have been no proposals from the authorised proposings which are the names. When we came to official proposals, respecting exactly what the honourable MP was talking about, about the different national 4 representations of individual directors, deputies and chief inspectors, we received, as chairman of the Council of Ministers and the authorising officer received a proposal for Director and I received a proposal for Deputy Director,... on the Croatian side I did not receive a proposal for Chief Inspector. On the other hand, I was also told on the basis of what the law says, as I was interpreted by the law, it does not have to be chosen in the package together by the Chief Inspector and Director and Deputy Intelligence and Security Agency. At no time is it disputed that the position belongs to a representative of the Croatian people and that when the official proposal comes that I will initiate it in the regular procedure the selection of the Chief Intelligence and Security Agency Inspector. As for the election of directors and vice directors, I must say, and you all know it, and we have talked about it several times in this House, that we are in a kind of blockade. Following an official proposal that came to the director and deputy director in the meantime, certain prosecution and judicial proceedings took place to confirm the indictment of the man proposed for the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency. I then held a meeting and asked the motionary for a direct intelligence agency whether, on the basis of the current proposal for a director at this stage, he could not be elected director because he has a confirmed indictment against him, a court case is under way. The position of the official promoter in front of the Bosniak people was that they stay with their proposal and expect the final trial to be completed and if, in the trial, the man who is proposed to prove his innocence will remain with the proposal, possibly if it were vice versa, it is clear that he will not be able to propose it... On the other hand, there is also no willingness to elect a deputy director of the Intelligence and Security Agency who currently has no dispute for his election. That decision, officially proposed by the Director of the Intelligence Agency, on the position of stopping the appointment process of directors and deputies, I have writtenly informed the members of the BiH Presidency and the Joint Commission that you know at what stage we are currently in the selection of the Director and Deputy Director of the Intelligence Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8953	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8954	I thank the chairman, but I must say I cannot be satisfied with the answer. I remind you of Article 9 of the Law, which says that the chairman is coordinating the Agency's activities and providing guidance on intelligence and security policy, he oversees the work of the Agency and carries political responsibility for its work. I am fully aware of all the limits you have in this business and that you have listed here, but what we currently have at the Agency, the fact that a year and three months ago, all the management structures within that Agency have expired, and that according to this, what you have told us here, it is very uncertain when the appointment can come, is it? What we have at the moment in this Agency, least said, is the crisis of governance, inability to control and lack of supervision, it is inadmissible for such an important agency, and therefore I demand and please, the Honorable Chairman, and together with this request to you, it is even more addressed to all involved in this process of appointment and control and supervision of the work of this Agency to take all steps to address this completely inappropriate situation in the Intelligence and Security Agency in a reasonable manner and in a manner appropriate to the law. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 5 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8955	I give my word to President Nenad Nešić. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8956	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, my question concerns the current situation with the COVID-19 pandemic, and it says: When will BiH finally receive vaccines against coronaryvirus and how many total populations are planned to be vaccinated by the end of June, since you said at the last session that the first doses will arrive at the end of January, and on 26 November last year you also claimed the same thing, why did the renier not go into direct talks with producers and how many generals do you plan to vaccinate?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8957	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8958	Thank you very much. Of course, this is a very active question and to say that BiH currently has signed contracts and paid excise duties for 40% of its population, in full, so it's the vaccines that are and all these vaccines are signed contracts, the payments made by those funds, and we expect their, their arrival in... I just want to say a few things from the very process of obtaining vaccines, the very process of obtaining and negotiating vaccines began in June of last year, and this process was run by entity health ministries and the Brcko District Health Department. All the steps taken, all the measures and all the decisions taken, were taken in the Council of Ministers, Entity Governments and the Government of the Brcko District, and therefore all these decisions for the procurement procedure through the Kovaks system of 1,230,000 vaccines that we know at this time who, in the Kovaks system, are expected to find both Chinese vaccines and about 900 vaccines from the EU system soon. These are vaccines that satisfy the vaccination of 40% of the BiH population and these are the first orders and first agreements we have completed for these vaccines. Of course, we did not go into a direct contract system, because at that point it meant that all three sides and the health ministry both of them and the Ministry of Health and the Department of Brcko District were involved, when we saw that the vaccine system was late and we went to a joint agreement with the prime ministers of the entities to go into the procurement system, try to get the vaccine directly, and we were determined, i.e. the requirement was to go to the procurement of so-called. vaccines not authorised by the European Medicines Agency. You know it's vaccines produced in Russia, vaccines produced in China. We are with, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has united the requirements of the entity and the Brcko district and we have received the needs, here to say, Russian vaccines by the Federation government 100 thousand doses, from Republika Srpska there was no requirement for a Russian vaccine, because they had already negotiated about 400,000 vaccines from Russia and 20,000 vaccines for the Brcko District. When it comes to vaccines from China, the Federation government has Fajzer that, i.e. the Ministry of Health of the Federation has applied for 100,000 vaccines from China, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia for 80,000 vaccines and 20,000 for the Brcko District and is directly negotiating with the department, Federal 6 of the Health Ministry for 200,000 vaccines from the phaser vaccines, the Government of Republika Srpska 50,000 and the Brcko District 8 258... The total need for direct contracts is less than 600, about 650 thousand vaccines, which is much less than we already negotiated in this first phase of the vaccine procurement. The first and last time I spoke here was expected to arrive at the end of January and in early February for the first vaccine in BiH. We have a written notice that by mid-February at the latest, about 27 thousand Fayser vaccines from the Kovaks system and about 200, up to 250,000 vaccines, I think it's called Moderna and these are the first vaccines. The Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has provided technical conditions for the preparation, reception of these vaccines, and, of course, the entity health ministries have brought in a vaccination programme, prepare workers for all, etc. When we spoke at the end of December, and it speaks of it, Parliamentarian Nešić speaks of that date, it was a meeting in Doboj, then I said on the basis of, of course, health workers' statements that we expect the first vaccines in BiH by the end of the first quarter of 2021. I am sure that the vaccination process will begin in this month in which we are and that at this stage, it will enter the system of continuous procurement of vaccines for BiH citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8959	Thank you, President. Does Agent Nešić want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8960	Mr. Tegeltija at last session, after last session you said that the vaccines will arrive in BiH by the end of January, today on February 3rd the vaccine is gone, I didn't get an answer from you now, we got an answer that may come and may not. I think your relationship with the health of our people in BiH is not appropriate and something urgent must be done to address the problem of human vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8961	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Šemsudina Mehmedović, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8962	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests. My question concerns, BiH Finance Minister, it refers to the way money is distributed from the BiH Single Account, which is collected through the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In what way, by which and whose decision, and by which relationship between the entities and Brcko districts are allocated funds between BiH, two entities and the Brcko District, what is the share ratio in percentages between these entities, and whether there are debts to each other due to a greater measure of funds in the earlier period, and who approves such distribution? So they don't speculate on media reports that one entity sued another, etc. I'd like you to give me a concrete answer today. 7 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8963	Thank you. Answer, I don't see the Minister of Finance right now, does anyone from the Council of Ministers, the chairman, have a deputy? Mr. Rančić, here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8964	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies and media representatives. On the question of the honourable MP, I am giving Mr Mehmedović the next answer. Incomes from indirect VAT taxes, excise duties, customs duties, tolls are collected on the Single Account of the Directorate for indirect taxation, the distribution of income from indirect taxes is prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the system of indirect taxation and the provisions of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of income. The technical aspect of the distribution of income to entities and Brcko District is prescribed by the Regulation on the calculation of the coefficients applicable since August 2008. The allocation coefficients to entities and the Brcko District shall be calculated by placing on the three-month end-use ratio of one entity with the total three-month end-use of both entities. The calculation of the coefficients shall be applied in the next quarter of the fiscal year. The distribution of indirect taxes during the fiscal year on the basis of quarterly coefficients was temporary until the final alignment for the fiscal year. The reason is that VAT registration data can be corrected by the obligors and/or the basis of a solution from the control procedure of the Directorate for indirect taxation over a period of five years from the date of submission of the application. The Regulation also provides for two interim adjustments of income between entities and that first interim adjustment on 31 July following the end of the first half of the fiscal year and the second interim alignment on 31 January of the next fiscal year for the previous year. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board shall take all decisions on the distribution of the consensus in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the indirect taxation system, which shall stipulate that the decision on distribution requires the vote of the finance minister and the Treasury of BiH and both of the entity's finance ministers. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board shall continuously adopt the quarterly allocation coefficients. The last decision, adopted on January 25th, 2021, refers to the distribution in the first quarter of 2021, according to a decision by the Federation of BiH in the first quarter, amounted to 62.51% of income and to Republika Srpska's 33.94% of income. During 2020, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration made decisions on a second interim alignment for the fiscal years 2012-2019 and currently there are no mutual claims on debt between entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8965	Thank you, Mr. Rančić. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8966	In short, I would be asked to be delivered in writing this answer so that I could comment further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8967	Thank you. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8968	Thank you. The Honorable chairman at the end of August of last year, more precisely on 27 August 2020, all of us MPs received a request from the BiH Agricultural Association seeking protection of domestic agricultural production. The same request was received by state institutions, the BiH presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In that request, the Association of Farmers of BiH requires that, due to unfair competition, imports of fresh and chilled meat in accordance with Article 30. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements between BiH and the EU immediately introduce burdens on imports of fresh and chilled meat of all categories, which will consist of 2 KM per kilogram and 10% of customs duties for 20 days. The BiH Farmers' Association also emphasises in its request a very difficult situation in which almost increasing slaughterhouses in BiH have been found, and also facing extra labour. From August of last year to today, the BiH institution, as far as I know, has done nothing concrete on this request. Of course, we had the opportunity to monitor media communication between foreign trade and economic relations and the Association of Farmers, as well as all events organised by agricultural producers to make their voice heard and considered their demands seriously. Yesterday's statement by the foreign trade and economic relations minister encourages, saying he proposed an important minister decision to the Council of Ministers for the introduction of levies and customs on imports of fresh and chilled meat. Therefore, regarding the above-mentioned esteemed chairman of the Council of Ministers, I ask you a question: When will the Council of Ministers consider the proposed decision on the introduction of levies and customs on imports of fresh and chilled meat, i.e. please respond to all agricultural producers in BiH when will their demands finally be resolved so that they are not forced to seek the solution of the application in the announced protests from 20 to 24 February of the current year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8969	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Teglti. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8970	Thank you very much. However, all initiatives in BiH mostly as soon as they start in the media, and then start, they come into institutions and those who prepare in this way are probably trying to achieve some of their goals that are sometimes not absolutely realistic. Since the first import initiative, the restriction on imports of fresh and chilled beef and pork, which appeared as an initiative, entity agriculture ministers and foreign trade minister Mr. Košarac, held several meetings several times. In addition, they heard their statement that the imports of that meat in BiH were reduced in 2021, 2020 compared to 2019, and that increased exports from BiH were the same type of meat and their estimates were that there was no objective need at that time to introduce those measures, with the finding that there was a disturbance, probably reduced consumption anywhere in the world, that there was a situation that prices of these products were not as they were in 2019. Meanwhile, there were many more of these meetings, perhaps seven days ago, the Ministry of Agriculture of Republika Srpska, or Minister Pašalić, prepared information and a proposal to the foreign trade ministry to introduce a certain restriction on imports and two... of the meat, fresh and chilled beef and pig meat. Accordingly, the Ministry of Foreign Trade prepared the decision provided for by the introduction of a limit of 200 days, i.e. the introduction of certain additional duties on imports of those products. The ministry delivered to the Council of Ministers, however, the materials are not now complete with the necessary opinions, I think the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and others, so it will not be discussed at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, but at the beginning of next session, at the first session of the Council of Ministers, a proposal for this decision prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade will be discussed. Of course, you are also witnessing today's signs in the media, where certain others, as I would say, are participants in the entire process of this chain of agricultural production, which deal with meat processing and are similarly absolutely opposed to that decision. Of course, the Council of Ministers will consider the decision and I think there is enough readiness for the Council of Ministers to accept this proposal that came from the Republika Srpska government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8971	Thank you very much. Representative's comment, do you want a representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8972	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers for their response. I am satisfied with the content of the response, but I am not satisfied with the dynamics of meeting the requirements that come from BiH's agricultural producers. Here I would also briefly remind the Prime Minister's chairperson that he specifically stressed the priority for supporting agricultural production in his exhibition when appointing the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, and that the Council of Ministers will deal specifically with this topic, the introduction of levies and the protection of domestic agricultural production. And then we have a five-month period when nothing on that request is done until that topic comes to the media, it's an inadmissible relationship to agricultural producers. Here I will highlight what is written in their request – please This request [[the speaker is warned on time]] solve and introduce the above measures so that manufacturers and slaughterhouses 10 do not suffer further damage. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And there was the signing of four meat industries in BiH, four major meat industries and their demand is not considered at all until media pressure and pressure from agricultural producers are finally resolved. I expect the Council of Ministers, as well as the chairman of the announcement, to make a decision and protect domestic agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8973	Thank you. I give the word to representatives Sanji Vulić, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8974	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. My question is for Mr. Cikotić, the esteemed Minister Cikotić, given that the work of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate is under your authority, I appreciate that you will know the answer to my question immediately, and if you do not know I believe that you will provide me with a written reply as soon as possible. On January 21st 2021, a vehicle registered as a property of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate, and a driver, a police director, were stopped on the M-17 road about ten hours and is doing routine police controls, but imagine a passenger in the car, MP at the Mirko Šarović House of Representatives. My question to you: Do you know about these special and individual privileges, why the Train Police Body Coordination Directorate only Mr. Šarović, and not all 42 MPs, why Šarović has privileges, is not on the list or protected, or the VIP personality, at least for the information available to the public, says there is clear that the Directorate provides protection only if there is an assessment that someone is at risk, that we do not know about this assessment, where the secret link, Mr. Cikotić, is either, or you do not know about this secret connection, or you know about this Director Vilić, and he did not inform you about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8975	Thank you. Answer, BiH Security Minister, Mr. Cikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8976	Honorable members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The question of honourable MP Vulić I received in very general form, I had no specific elements, I prepared some general information or data which I do not consider relevant in relation to the specific question, so you will receive a concrete answer by written means. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8977	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? No, thank you very much. I give my word to Agent Branislav Borenović, please welcome the MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8978	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. My question is the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on the implementation of adopted conclusions and parliamentary initiatives in the House of Representatives. Here today is, I think, the 13th or 14th session of the House of Representatives in the mandate of the Council of Ministers, who, led by Mr Zoran Tegelti, has been reviewing and looking at the minutes and conclusions adopted, I have noticed that almost very little or almost no conclusion or initiative that binds the Council of Ministers has been realized. My question is – what is the reason for such behaviour of the Council of Ministers according to decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives? Because this is about some things that are really useful, they are easy to implement, and I have a feeling that there is a completely ignoring relationship between the Council of Ministers and individual ministers in the Council of Ministers. I will begin with the one perhaps first adopted here, as I recall, my colleague Magazinović then suggested that within 30 days, a regulation be adopted defining the conditions of purchase and use of official vehicles in BiH institutions, etc. the marking of official vehicles precisely in a way that knows who, how and how to use the official vehicles of the joint BiH institutions. As far as I'm concerned, nothing has been done about it. There have been many initiatives and conclusions concerning the judiciary, for BHRT, for the distribution of revenue from tolls, information on migrants, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, etc. etc. to those adopted at the session two months ago concerning the pandemic COVID-19. What is disputed is that the conclusion, which everyone has unanimously supported in this House, which says that once a month the Council of Ministers is obliged to inform the House of Representatives about the state of the pandemic COVID-19 with some data that are very important to all of us living in this country, what is controversial to do once a month, has been two months? And what I may be most interested in, what happens to the House of Representatives' decision to adopt a parliamentary initiative obliging the Council of Ministers to submit within 30 days amendments and additions to the VAT Act to reduce the VAT rate for all services provided in tourism, catering and passenger transport from 17% to 5%? It's been 60 days, you've had 30 days. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8979	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8980	Thank you very much. What you need to know is that every initiative that comes from the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, the BiH Presidency is being considered at the first meeting of the Council of Ministers to be after 12. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers, which depends on which initiative is involved, it receives a concrete responsibility from the resolution ministry or from one of the institutions that is at the level of the joint BiH institutions and then initiates procedures for the implementation of these conclusions. I must say that the conclusions adopted by Parliament are the most often political views of certain political groups and so on and that certain conclusions cannot be supported either in the Council of Ministers, they cannot be obtained in the institutions, but each of these initiatives is being considered and the relevant positions are being prepared. We are also considering the half-yearly Council of Ministers is considering how many of these initiatives have been implemented and how many have not been implemented. Of course, I remember that first initiative about marking cars when it's said that it's not in accordance with the law, that it's not possible. Or, for example, about your initiative in which you speak about VAT, the Council of Ministers' VAT Act cannot be prepared without a proposal prepared by the Directorate for indirect taxation. Your request for this correction is addressed to the Directorate for indirect taxation and as far as I haven't received official information yet, but I don't think that this initiative was supported by the Management Board of indirect taxation and without that it is not possible for the Council of Ministers to prepare amendments and additions to the law, because the procedure has been so defined. In any case, I would like to say that every initiative that comes from Parliament, this House or the House of Peoples, we are considering, we refer to the procedure of those who need to prepare adequate decisions for the Council of Ministers and if something requires it to come to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8981	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8982	We ask you for a detailed written response on the realisation and state of all conclusions and parliamentary initiatives adopted in the House of Representatives in your term, but indeed, I think it is appropriate to give such an assessment, to give an answer assessing the decisions of the House of Representatives. Did the political decision of the House of Representatives for you, when all and one MP, came from a position or opposition, from any nation, from any entity, support the initiative that the Council of Ministers once a month informs the House of Representatives, provides information on the situation in BiH regarding the pandemic of the crown with all relevant indicators, with a special emphasis on spending planned budgets? Is it for you a political decision of the House of Representatives for which, as far as I know, everyone voted, to submit a report on the state and cost of toll income and oil and oil derivatives for the period 2017-2019? Not to read any further, how many really initiatives and conclusions are useful and need this House of Representatives, and I insist that you really start doing your job and respect what was adopted here at the House of Representatives and provide us with accurate information on all the realized conclusions. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8983	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, please welcome MPs. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8984	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests, I refer my question to Mr Vojin Mitrović, Minister of Transport and Communications at the Council of Ministers, as regards the Public TV Service of BiH. So the questions are: How many information and technical centres is BiH Public TV service in BiH and how many are in Republika Srpska territory? And the second question is, why doesn't BHRT broadcast a diary from Banja Luka and whose decision has abolished the broadcast of that diary from Banja Luka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8985	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Communications and Transport BiH, Mr Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8986	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs. I would like to thank the question raised by the honourable MP Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, questions are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but they are in the jurisdiction of the BHRT Public TV Service and the Board of Regulators. We have already referred to these institutions a request for these answers and we expect to get answers in the next period. The honourable People's Parliament will be delivered in writing to answer the questions asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8987	Thank you, Minister, Mr Mitrović. The word gives, and does the representative want to comment, since the answer is not obtained?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8988	Well, I want to thank the Honorable Chairman for the opportunity to comment and understand and, of course, respect and, as the minister has said, well, I expect answers in writing. However, what the answers will certainly point to and prove is one relationship that this allegedly common public, allegedly public TV house BiH has with one part of BiH, and especially with regard to current and long-term developments as it is to certain employees, and also to members of management that at this point, some of them are being followed by the police, and such a relationship speaks a lot about the treatment of individual constituent peoples and on the subject of editorial and human policy and on the subject of the overall policy of this house, which certainly requires a different relationship certainly for all institutions, and especially for those of us who come from Republika Srpska to the future according to this allegedly public and joint broadcaster. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 14 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8989	Thank you. I give my word to the MPs of Aida Baručija, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8990	Thank the chairman, I welcome all present. My question is addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications, to speak louder, to direct my question to the Minister of Transport and Communications, to ask the Ministry of Transport and Communications to provide me with comprehensive information on the transfer of public authority from the areas carried out by the Ministry of Transport, the certification of vehicles, the conduct of professional training of managers and drivers in international road transport, and the manner in which the granting of public authority and the control of the exercise of authorised powers was carried out, when and where has the advertisement for the granting of the authorisation been published, and on the basis of which the contract was awarded?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8991	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Communications and Transport BiH, Mr Mitrović, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8992	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs. I would like to thank the honourable MP for the question, and I can inform the following about it. This ministry did not transfer public authorities from its jurisdiction, but after public calls, and taking into account the number of available civil servants and employees in the Ministry of Contracts, it entrusted certain administrative and technical tasks in the following areas, such as type-approval, certification, professional training of transport managers and drivers in international road transport, and also the coordination of international and inter-entity bus routes. As the conclusion of all the contracts was pointed forward, a public call was preceded in three listed daily newspapers and a complete procedure that ended in positive written opinions by the BiH Ombudsman. The comprehensive and detailed information on each particular area has been provided in writing, because here, for a short time, I really cannot be able to explain it to you, but in writing, everything has been provided to you in detail on these questions that you have said and sub-questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8993	Thank you, Minister Mitrović. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8994	Thank you. I referred this question in written form to the beginning of the 12th month, I referred the emergency to the same question in January and here I have really not received an answer, or comprehensive information, that is why I am asking you the question now orally. And I would ask you to send me all this information that you have now listed and that comprehensive information as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8995	Thank you, counsel. I give the word to Representative Damir Arnaut, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8996	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just take this opportunity, Article 167. The Rules of Procedure say - an MP may ask one parliamentary question in oral form, one. And it has always strictly stuck to it, you have allowed Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać to ask two, even so listed by one and two regular numbers, please do not repeat it when oral questions are. And my question is specifically the chairman of the Council of Ministers: Will you start working with the Interim Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the situation in BiH's judicial institutions by the end of this week?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8997	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8998	Thank you very much. I understand very well the relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I understand very well the relationship of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to committees, either in any way, permanent or temporary and always understand my place and role and I have always worked together and there has never been a problem for co-operation and of course I will cooperate, of course, within the deadlines and dates on which we can agree with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u8999	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Does the representative want to comment? You have a word. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9000	Thank you. It is your obligation to cooperate under the Law on Parliamentary Control and there is currently no indication that you are trying to achieve co-operation, you have received a call from the Secretariat of the investigating committee to determine, or suggest dates for your testimony, you have received my act in which I am asking you to do the same and there is no answer yet. At the beginning of January, we decided to invite you, the situation in the judiciary is catastrophic, the OSCE report is catastrophic, and you are insinuating calls from the Interim Investigation Commission. I asked you if you'd give the date by the end of this week when you could appear before the Interim Investigation Commission? You didn't answer that, and now I expect an answer in writing to this question of mine, and I expect by the end of the week the answer to the act that I have instructed you to set me a date you will appear before the investigating committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9001	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Ljubica Miljanović, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9002	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests, my question today is addressed to the Ministry of Security, Mr Cikotić, and it concerns the work of migrant camps in BiH. I wonder if there is a register, or register of international organisations operating in the care of migrants, and do you have information on the number of employees, working status on the professional structure and origin of people engaged in the work with migrants?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9003	Thank you. Answer, BiH Security Minister, Mr. Cikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9004	I have prepared a review of migrants and of course of all centres, and you are essentially interested in international organisations that are engaged in these centres. From my knowledge of this situation, I can tell you that to the greatest extent in the management and monitoring of the operations of these temporary reception centres is the International Organisation IOM, next to it the UNHCR and UNICEF, some NGOs are involved, and above all I mean the DRC... The Danish refugee council. We, within the Ministry, have information occasionally on the number of people employed within these organisations, and at our request we also receive data on the number of people that these organisations at local level engage in under the contract of work and we can provide you with some part of today's status within the next few days. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9005	Thank you, Minister Cikotić. With this, we have exhausted the questions and answers of the Council of Ministers. Now we're crossing, does only the representative want to comment? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9006	...and I expect, uh, a written section announced by Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9007	Okay, thank you very much. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards changes to the agenda of the session, I would like to note that the following is added to the agenda: Point 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2019 State Programme of Activities Agreement between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Directorate for European Integration of the Council of Ministers of BiH, material from 27.01.2021. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Predrag Kojović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9008	I thank the chairman. On the basis of Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives suggest the inclusion of a new agenda item for the 16th session of the House of Representatives – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the status of purchase of the vaccine against coronaryvirus for the needs of BiH citizens. Reason: The Council of Ministers agreed in September 2020 to obtain vaccines against coronary viruses, but so far no person in BiH has been vaccinated against this disease. At the same time, our neighbours of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia started the vaccinations of their citizens last month, and in countries like the United States, Israel and EU members already entering the second round, i.e. giving other doses of these vaccines and not talking. Also, unlike the countries of the region, which, shortly after the approval of vaccines in Western countries, implemented an identical procedure to approve their use, the BiH Medicines Agency has not yet taken coordinated moves by the Council of Ministers to issue similar authorisations in our country. Instead, the Council of Ministers makes inadequate decisions like, let's say, that only 2 million marks are allocated for the purchase of vaccines whose procurement has not been even agreed at all, which is just to remind the same title that the Canton Government has singled out for the purchase of vaccines. The statements we heard in the, uh, agenda of issues and initiatives really show, as one would say, a loss of contact with the reality of this Council of Ministers, because vaccination in countries, in all countries, has already begun long ago, and the chairman of Tegeltija claimed that BiH was following the same pace and would have the same treatment as all those other countries. And I will finish, I really think it is necessary that this most legislative body put this point today and that someone finally tells the citizens of BiH exactly who is negotiating vaccines, what vaccines are being negotiated, how many vaccines and when 18 are going to be given. These promises that, during this month, during the next month, in the first quarter, I really think that, as I would say, they will insult intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9009	Thank you, counsel. Agent Zukan Helez also called for the debate, and here you are, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9010	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Co-chairing, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers present from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Here I want a few sentences in general on the agenda to say and say. This today's agenda of 29 points, as far as the agenda is concerned, is the real picture and opportunity of the Council of Ministers, the state of the parliamentary majority and the situation in the College. Of these 29 points that we have today, two, three points or four may be from the Council of Ministers, everything else is initiatives or reports by committees on the initiatives of MPs that usually end up, again thanks to the failure of the Council of Ministers, here is a colleague Borenović speaking, ending up in a trash basket, never welcoming their end and never achieving that goal that they are set up for. I remind you that today we do not have any agenda points from 14 priorities put before us by the EU, or the European Commission. We have been chasing this for 20 years, these some of the priorities of the European Commission, the EU, gentlemen, these are our priorities, these are not their priorities. I want to remind the public that we can make all of these 14 priorities through the legal procedure to finish at two, three sessions, we don't want it, or you don't want it. When a man looks at everything, analyzes, I come to the conclusion that this Council of Ministers is governed by this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9011	Your Honor, I warn you of the provisions of Article 71. Do you have a proposal to download the agenda item or propose a new one? I'm still waiting to see you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9012	Just to warn you, the debate on the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9013	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9014	I'm discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9015	Please, please, the debate on the agenda, Article 71 of supplementation and amendments to the agenda – at the beginning of the session of the House of Representative, as well as any authorising officer, has the right to request that the optional item be omitted and the proposal of a new one with the relevant material in writing is not allowed to leave out the mandatory points referred to in Article 70(2) of this Rules of Procedure. Paragraph (2) – a representative shall not be able to present for more than 3 minutes, nor shall he elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as a item of the agenda, unless the College of the House decides otherwise at the request of the representative. So please, if you have in accordance with the article to suggest, if you do not have any please interrupt the debate and this warning to these provisions of Article 71 applies, of course, to all others. I don't think we need to warn each time before each session of each of the deputies after half the term of office about business provisions. Thank you, and I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9016	I understand the chairman, but I can't just say that part of the agenda and sit down and please allow me my time that
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9017	I cannot allow you to discuss the points of the agenda, because we are going from point to point when the agenda is adopted. If you have a word in accordance with this proposal, if you do not have any more words.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9018	Nothing. There's no end to your insolence.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9019	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9020	Thank you, Chairman. Article 167. Why are you selectively applying, why did you not take away Mrs Novaković-Bursać's word when she asked two oral questions completely countered by the Rules of Procedure? I mean, it's not right, you can't use it selectively, and you obviously apply it when it comes to position and opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9021	I find that you have misused a business provision, it does not stand in a place that applies under this item of the agenda, and at least any of the MPs or MPs has been invited to comment on whether or not someone has asked one or two questions or questions. At the beginning of the agenda on these issues, it is clear in line with the Rules of Procedure that one question is being asked, so this time you have a warning of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to, on the agenda, representative Saša Magazinović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9022	I thank the chairman. I'm talking about an initiative to include the agenda point on getting a vaccine against the coronary virus. I am sorry that the chairman of Tegelti came out, and even when fellow Nešić 20 asked a question, he did not give a complete answer and I think it is necessary that this point be on the agenda to find out if we are going to have a new affair regarding the purchase of medicines like we had in connection with the purchase of a respirator. In legal circles, it is already a subject of who will first receive criminal charges and who will be arrested, since there is no activity that will change our legislation in a way that this procurement, which we are promised, is possible. So we are told, and as Parliament, we have tasked the Council of Ministers on Mr Zvizdić's initiative to go to direct negotiations with producers. It implies that such a thing is possible. In order to be possible, it is necessary here to amend the Law on Public Procurement and Law and also the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. No Niko has gone into this procedure, which means that these laws will be broken, which means someone will get criminal charges, which means someone will be arrested, because the Public Procurement Act knows and it is not a disputed, negotiating, direct negotiation process, a procedure conducted to protect exclusive rights if there is only one registered big traffic.... We don't have anything of course, but when vaccines are taken, bought, the drug law and medical means must be consulted, and it clearly states that you can't buy from a manufacturer, but from a wholesaler, which isn't here, which is, whether, authorized. Which means that it's going consciously to break the law or make a false promise, and it's good to open up the debate, and people are telling us that I'm going to sign it, and I'm going to know that I'm going to get arrested, or we figured out how we're going to do it to get around the law, but somebody's got to explain it to us or deceive the citizens that we're going to go into direct procurement. There was a proposal here at Parliament, and this will end with the use of the 38th member who says – in case of emergency, the Director of the Medicines and Medical Meetings Agency may approve the placing on the market. So, it's okay, all the conditions are met, there's just a little bit of a problem here, this initiative can't be implemented without amending and supplementing the Marketing Authorisation Regulations, because that Regulation does not provide for this situation. So again a potential criminal report and again a potential affair. And while others in the region are being vaccinated, we promise to The vaccines directly, which is impossible by our law, and if there is no initiative, here's the agenda, to change the laws to make that possible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, the deception of citizens and potential criminal charges and arrests, we need to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9023	I warn you, Your Honor, because you are, in a way, proposing the same point that your colleague had previously run for office, so I did not correct you, because I thought you would suggest another or new point. You didn't need to, you violated the business provisions that speak of you explaining further until this point comes to the agenda. Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9024	Thank you. Article 76(1) states that when a person points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the chair shall decide on the justification of the objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I pointed out the fact that the MP has asked two questions, although the Rules of Procedure allow only one thing, explicitly wrote in her text one, regular number one, regular number two, did not decide on my complaint on the matter and I insist that, in accordance with Article 76(1), you decide whether or not the injured Rules of Procedure are in that case. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9025	Once again you have done a breach of the Rules of Procedure in a way that has been misused, we are under discussion about the agenda and, of course, after this second one, I will apply the provisions relating to, which are here in accordance with the powers and the Rules of Procedure after the second notice. Representative Dragan Mektić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9026	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not experience the fate of my colleague Zukan Helez, and on the same subject I will speak, propose and submit in writing the addition of the agenda, and before I do so, I will give an introduction and an explanation. These meetings of the House of Representatives have become pointless, these meetings of the House of Representatives are held only for forms and for the people to create an illusion that we are doing something, and in fact we are doing nothing for as much money as we receive monthly and how much these sessions cost. I don't know what the college's interest is, your interest in the College, is to schedule such sessions that don't solve any single problem, no single question that troubles our people and our citizens. We have 14 EU priorities, we have a fatal need for certain reform laws, especially in the area of the rule of law and the rule of law, or to say legal certainty, and we haven't had any reform laws since the Council of Ministers for a long time, and I don't know why you're having these sessions. What do you want to justify, the money you spend, the cars you pay for a hundred or 150 thousand marks you ride in them, etc. and all of this to create, therefore, and to deceive the people of BiH and to create income as if we were doing something, and for this reason, I will submit in writing a proposal to supplement the agenda, to make a statement about it and to interrupt this session and to continue it when conditions are created to discuss the serious life issues and topics that our citizens are dealing with. And after I propose to supplement this agenda with this point of mine, out of revolt I will this Parliamentary Assembly, session [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here's a moment I'm just finishing one sentence, and I'm not going to attend any of these sessions, and because I'm going to leave this session today, I'm asking this House's session to be denied this week's work day and I'm not getting paid because I'm not going to be present. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9027	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9028	Thank you. So here's to try to influence a little bit that Mr. Col. Mektić stays in session, I'm going to suggest three points of the agenda, an addition to the agenda, which concerns a significant number of people who do certain jobs, who live off their work. The fact that counterparts Mektić, Nešić and I have tried to complement the current agenda through the parliamentary initiative, which is quite weak, we see that there are no points again, not one point by the Council of Ministers, nor any ministry of the Council of Ministers, and there are no ministers at this session, when we are discussing 22 agendas, and I think it is very important issues. We expected the Kolegijum to include three parliamentary initiatives coming from us, but as this did not happen, we will take advantage of the business opportunity and Article 71 to put three points of the agenda in the form of three conclusions. One on the part, the conclusion that the House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within 15 days on the Decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH, activities, and activities the Council of Ministers has taken to ensure that sanctions do not come with a plan for the implementation of BiH's obligations which would remove the grounds for imposing sanctions. Not to talk about what we've heard through the media and what's said, I think it's very important that we have this at this House session. The second item of the agenda is related to the conclusion that the House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within 15 days on the fulfilment of BiH's obligations with the EU Agreement on the Export of Chicken Meat, Chicken Meat Process and Eggs for Industrial Processing, as well as the measures taken so that BiH does not lose its export licences to the EU. It concerns a large number of producers who make significant income for themselves, but thus also provide jobs for people living in this country. As far as I know, the Co-ordination Committee of Processors has repeatedly warned BiH that BiH could be left without hard-earned export licences to the EU as BiH institutions have failed to meet their obligations under the Chicken Meat Export Agreement, chicken meat processing and eggs for industrial production. I think it's very important that this report, this information comes to the House session. The third point, given that I am running out of time, concerns the conclusion that the House of Representatives also asks the Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within 15 days on the Decision of the Federal Veterinary Service and the Fitness Control of the Russian Federation to temporarily prohibit imports of pears from BiH, i.e. Republika Srpska and the measures taken after 21 December 2020 when the institutions of BiH were warned by Russian partners about the possibility of introducing restrictive measures as well as information on exported quantities of pears and apples in 2019 and 2020. For all three additions to the agenda, relevant explanations have been provided and I think this is something about a truly significant number of people in these areas, in these activities and that it would be good for the House to adopt the first addition of the agenda and, of course, to declare this later on through the agenda through the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9029	Representative Nermin Nikšić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9030	I thank the Honorable Chairman. So, I'm going to join some colleagues before I suggest a concrete agenda point and point out that someone uninformed to see today's agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives thinks that we live in such an orderly country where there are no problems, in which everything is resolved when it comes to the pandemic, when it comes to the migrant crisis, that our businessmen have no problems in carrying out their activities, that social givings, pensioners are collected, because just a little bit longer so there will be 23 2/3 of mandates, we have three or four laws that are more technical corrections, which have been proposed and adopted in Parliament by the Council of Ministers. So the situation is what it is, but that's the only way we can influence it by talking, but it's hardly anything we can change. I would ask the House to accept the initiative, to accept the addition of the agenda on which it would be – an initiative towards the Ministry of Security of BiH to regulate the status of liaison workers and the encryption of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. It is about six people who have already been in some sort of resolution proposal, an extremely important and important service which is not the only one that has no salary supplement, and obviously there is not much excessive concern within the Ministry of Security, I guess because few of these people, although I say, have been the subject of one legislative addition in previous Parliament meetings, and then all others have received the supplement, and they have lost the addition. So, if I didn't explain now, if the agenda had passed, then I'd have added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9031	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm concluding a debate on the agenda. Since at this point, we only have two proposals, which are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, delivered in terms of reasoning and the rest. The initiatives that the other MPs delivered didn't have, we didn't get them at this point, so I guess they'd say they were.... etc. So here I would like to give a break for 10 minutes just to let us share the services so that we can make a series of suggestions for today's agendas delivered in terms of changes. Here's a 10 minute break. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our place to continue the session and pleading on the agenda. Thank you. Now, please, let's get a statement on the application. As regards the proposals for additions, or amendments to the agenda of today’s session, we had a proposal based on Article 71. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives where a new point is proposed. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the status of the procurement of coronary vaccines for the needs of BiH citizens. This initiative is in line with the Rules of Procedure, it contains an explanation and has material, it is true it is from the daily press, but, uh, it is equipped in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask MPs and MPs to make clear whether the information, uh, will be included in today's session agenda. 24 Out of the 39 present – for 33 against 1, abstentions 5. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that today's agenda included the Information of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the status of the procurement of the vaccine against coronaryvirus for the needs of BiH citizens, the promoter: Representatives Predrag Kojović, Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut, Nermin Nikšić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Zukan Helez, Aida Baruči and Nada Mladina. The second proposer submitted a proposal to suspend the statement, suspend the meeting of the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, and continue when the conditions are met. This proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, there are no valid reasons. I just have to say that this session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure, the agenda has been established and at today's session of this House we have mandatory points, so there is also agreement in the College that we do not plead on this point. We move on to the following proposals, it is a respected representative of Borenović, he proposed actually three conclusions. Dear fellow Borenović, we have contacted you during the break, so the secretary told you, and I also want you to know that today at the College of the same point that you have now proposed only in the form of a conclusion, they exist as initiatives and today is set at the College of Commissioners and means these points, regardless of what means, on the views of the committees, were as mandatory points at the next session of the House. Well, here's what we want to hear from you, although I'm also obliged to say that we should not propose conclusions on the agenda in the Rules of Procedure. The conclusions are something that arises from a certain point of the agenda and it always binds to a certain point, but since I have watched and made a kind of precedent during the precedent, so we once pleaded, here I do not want to treat you in a different way... about it however let it go and let each MP consider when proposing whether it is serious and whether it is good and what we get. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9033	Thank you for the very correct reasons, the fact is that it was made precedent and you're absolutely right to let the House decide how to plead by these conclusions. It's a good thing you were in college this morning, I didn't have that information, that you were considering three parliamentary initiatives that came to you a few days ago. The bottom line is, it's about certain deadlines that, I have a feeling, that we could go through, it's about the fact that it could happen that on 31 March BiH remains from these hard-earned export licences to the EU, short deadlines, and perhaps it would be good to adopt all three today, all three of the conclusions that we have proposed in this form in order to get, first of all, information within 15 days. reports on what is happening in the matter, of course, of chicken exports to the EU, about the ban on imports of pears from BiH, or Republika Srpska, and what is happening on the decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH and activities carried out by the Council of Ministers. For practical reasons, I have a feeling that, waiting for the next session, that we are going to lose a lot of time, and that here I suggest that we stay in what we have suggested in the form of three conclusions, and that, of course, every MP becomes aware of whether, whether to wait a month or to do so today, I think it is very practical and important things that concern a significant number of agricultural producers in this country and those who, of course, can have certain consequences when it comes to certain sanctions, I remain on the table. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9034	Thank you very much, Agent Borenović. We're going to make a statement to the order you asked for. You are proposing the adoption of a conclusion requiring the House of Representatives to submit to the House, within 15 days, detailed information on the Decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH, activities that the Council of Ministers has taken to ensure that sanctions do not come with a plan of action to fulfil BiH's obligations to remove the grounds for the imposition of sanctions. Please, let us be clear on this proposal for a conclusion. Of the 39 present – for 20, against 8, abstentioned 11. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposed conclusion as an addition to the agenda. We move to the following conclusion, it is: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within 15 days on meeting BiH's obligations with the EU agreement on the export of chicken meat, chicken meat processing and eggs for industrial processing, as well as on measures taken to keep BiH without export licences to the EU. Please make a statement. Of the 39 present – 20 for, versus 8, abstentioned 11. There's a general, there's an ethnic majority. I agree that we have adopted this proposal as well. And we have another proposal for a conclusion that says: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within 15 days on the Decision of the Federal Veterinary Service and Phytosanitary Control of the Russian Federation to temporarily prohibit imports of pears from BiH, i.e. Republika Srpska, by the measures taken after 21.12.2020 when the institutions of BiH were warned by Russian partners about the possibility of introducing restrictive measures, as well as data on exported quantities of pears and apples in 2019 and 2020. Please make a statement. Of the 39 present – for 19 against 9, abstention 11. There's a general and entity majority. I also agree that we have adopted this proposal for the conclusion of Mr Borenović, of course there are also representatives: Nenad Nešić and Dragan Mektić. We move on to the following proposal, which was submitted by distinguished representative Nermin Nikšić to include a new item in the agenda, and the point is: An initiative to the BiH Ministry of Security to regulate the status of liaison workers and cryptosoprotection at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. 26 Please make a statement. Of the 39 present – for 24, against 1, abstention 14. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have adopted that this point, i.e. an initiative by the BiH Ministry of Security for the regulation of the status of liaison workers and cryptostration at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, is being included in today's session agenda. I would now, in the end, since we have declared ourselves, have concluded that the 16th session of the House has the agenda that you have received with the call with the amendments adopted, that we are not taking a break, our services will do it parallelly while we are doing it on the agenda and it will be done in the manner of business in terms of the chronology of the points, i.e. the acts on the agenda. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Nenad Stevandić for inclusion in the agenda of the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives of Parliament reads: "The conclusion reached by which the Parliamentary House of BiH asks the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to apply Article 38 when considering the application for the registration of the vaccine against the virus. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 58/08), No. 01-50-1-15-15-15/20 of 11. 1. 2021; 4. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Jasmin Emrić to discuss the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, the applicant: the BiH Ministry of Security, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is requesting that the Council of Ministers urgently, at the first next session, put out of force a conclusion adopted at the extraordinary phone session 31. 12. In 2020, which explicitly calls on the authorities of the UN-San canton and the City of Bihac to respect the stated valid decision and without delay to accept and accommodate a certain number of migrants to the location of Bira, number: 01-50-1-1749/20 of 11. 1. 2021; 5. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Jasmin Emrić's conclusion on the debate on the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, the applicant: The BiH Ministry of Security, which reads: "The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives tasked the BiH Council of Ministers urgently, at the first next session, to amend the Decision on the determination of temporary reception centres for the accommodation of migrants ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No 28/19), in a way to delete from Article 1 the location of the former Bihaq Bihaq factory, and to delete the said interim reception centre immediately from Article 2. 1. 2021; 6. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Jasmina Emrić for the debate on the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Security, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly mandates the Council of Ministers of BiH to take all activities, procedures and actions within 90 days to close the temporary reception centre of the former Miral factory in Velika Kladhua, and to amend the Decision on the designation of temporary reception centres for the accommodation of migrants ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No 28/19), in a way to delete from Article 1 the location of the former factory Miral in Velika Kladura, as well as to delete point c from Article 2), i.e. that 27 is closed within the deadline of the specified provisional reception reception centre.’, number: 01-50-1749/20 of 11. 1. 2021; 7. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic on the debate on the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Security, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Council of Ministers to provide monthly information on the situation in the area of migration to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives," issue: 01-50-1749/20 of 11. 1. In the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Security (realising the conclusion of the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, held 15. Nine. 2020.), number: 01-50-1-15-12/17, link: 01-50-1-1749/20 of 10. 12. 2020; 9. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House of BiH's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary initiative "delegates the Council of Ministers to, within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, as the holder and activity coordinator, agree with the ethnic governments, the revised socio-economic reform document in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2020. – 2022, and following the Action Plan, taking into account the economic crisis caused by the coronary pandemic (COVID-19) and the necessary austerity measures in the public sector and the measures to help the economy to be taken in the next period with the aim of recovering Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy", number: 01-50-1-2161/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 10. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House of BiH's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary initiative to adopt the Anti-Corruption Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 as soon as possible, not later than ten days after the date of adoption of this initiative. – 2024 and following the Action Plan, which is an obligation from the European Commission on the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union and the accompanying Analytical Report", No: 01-50-1-2165/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 11. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House of BiH's parliamentary assembly tasked the BiH Council of Ministers with preparing this initiative within 60 days of the date of adoption and in parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law on Oversight over Bosnia and Herzegovina's market, in order to bring it into line with the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. Regulation No. 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 Seven. In 2008, which sets out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the placing on the market of different products", number: 01-50-1-2168/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 12. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary House of Parliament's initiative "delegates the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement, within a short period of time, the obligations of the Third Energy Package of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community and the obligations of the European Commission from the European Commission's Opinion on the application for Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the European Union", issue: 01-50-1-2169/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 13. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House "delegates the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to develop and deliver to the BiH Council of Ministers within 60 days of the date of adoption of this initiative for adoption of the first 28 draft integrated energy and climate plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina (NECP), which is the obligation of this ministry from the BiH Council of Ministers' Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority Report of the European Commission", issue: 01-50-1-2172/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 14. The College's report on the efforts to reach agreement on Denis Zvizdić's parliamentary assembly's parliamentary House "in order to enable the BiH Council of Ministers to withdraw funds from the IPA funds in the field of youth within 60 days of the adoption of this initiative to adopt the decision on the adoption of the Strategic Document for Youth at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to enable the withdrawal of funds from IPA funds in the field of youth, and in this respect, it is up to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to take all necessary action to take place as soon as possible, and not later than 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, to put into office the Committee for the Coordination of Young People's Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1-2175/20 of 12. 1. In 2021; in the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on Šemsudin Mehmedović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "I am launching an initiative to restart the public advertising procedure, offers, selection and adoption of the Bosnian and Herzegovina anthem, and to finally resolve this simple and very important issue to the satisfaction of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue 01-50-1-2306/20 of 12. 1. 2021; 16. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Digitalisation of TV signal in BiH", applicant: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-10-2464/20 of 23. 12. 2020; 17. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Planning and training of employees in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2465/20 of 23. 12. 2020; 18. Information on the current state of play at the BiH Export Credit Agency caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, applicant: BiH Export Credit Agency, issue: 01,02-50-18-81/21 of 6. 1. 2021; 19. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the status of the procurement of coronary virus vaccines for the needs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Predrag Kojović, Damir Arnaut, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez and Nada Mladina, No. 01-50-18-309/21, Link: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021; 20. Appointment of members of the BiH Public Broadcasting System Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, applicant for the candidate ranking: Regulatory Agency for Communications, No: 01,02-34-1-99/21 of 7. 1. 2021; 21. Report on the establishment of a candidate-list proposal for the selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-16-161- 5,1/21 of 21. 1. 2021; 22. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate list for the appointment of members: (a) Independent Committee and (b) Board of Appeals of citizens as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, No: 01,02-34-1-197/21 of 22. 1. 2021; 23. Proposal for a Decision on the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 01,02,03/6-39-1-178/21 of 21. 1. 2021; 24. Proposal for a conclusion of the MPs: Branislav Borenović, Nenad Nešić and Dragan Mektić, who reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver within 15 days detailed information to the House on the Decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH, activities that the Council of Ministers has taken to ensure that there is no plan of action to fulfil BiH's obligations to remove the grounds for imposing sanctions", number: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021; 29 25. Proposal for a conclusion of the MPs: Dragan Mektić, Branislav Borenović and Nenad Nešić, who reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers to provide within 15 days detailed information to the House on the fulfilment of BiH's obligations under the EU chicken meat export agreement, chicken meat processing and eggs for industrial processing, as well as measures taken to ensure that BiH does not lose its export licences to the EU", number: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021; 26. Proposal for a conclusion of the representatives: Branislav Borenović, Nenad Nešić and Dragan Mektić, who reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Council of Ministers to provide within 15 days detailed information to the House on the Decision of the Federal Veterinary Service and Phytosanitary Control of the Russian Federation to temporarily prohibit imports of pears from BiH, or Republika Srpska, measures taken after 21 December 2020, when Russian partners warned BiH of the possibility of introducing restrictive measures, as well as data on exported quantities of pears and apples in 2019 and 2020," issue: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021; 27. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure of appointing members of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1196/21 of 22. 1. 2021; 28. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut, which reads: "It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start the search procedure within ten days of the adoption of this initiative, diplomatic and other appropriate channels, information and documentation from the competent authorities of the United States that Nikola Špirić was involved in public corruption and has benefited from it, including the lack of proper benefit during the conduct of public functions and the obstruction of public processes during his term as a member of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1908/20 of 28. Nine. 2020; 29. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "in charge of the Council of Ministers and Competent Ministry of Security of BiH to refer within 30 days to the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Communication Act, which will introduce a single European emergency number 112, which is one of the important elements of an effective system of protection and rescue", issue: 01-50-1-2530/20 of 30. 12. 2020; 30. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Damir Arnaut "which is asked by the Council of Ministers to allocate funds to help victims of the earthquake in Croatia, at a minimum amount of 300,000 KM", number: 01-50-1-51/21 of 4. 1. 2021; 31. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "required by the Council of Ministers to allocate funds for the construction of a new Bihac health building at a minimum of 2000.000,00 KM", issue: 01-50-1-95/21 of 7. 1. 2021; 32. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "which is bound by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary House of BiH's Ministry of Civil Affairs in 2021, and for the purposes of preparing and international representation, in order to assign 70,000 KM to future women's handball selections of BiH and 30,000 KM to women's handball clubs on behalf of match costs at international level in the context of the EHF competition", issue: 01-50-115/21 of 11. 1. 2021; 33. Initiative for the Ministry of Security of BiH to regulate the status of liaison and encryption workers at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Proposer: Representative Nermin Nikšić, issue: 01-50-1-312/21, link: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2019 State Programme of Activities Agreement between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers' Directorate for European Integration, No 01,02-21-1-253/21 of 27. 1. 2021. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 15th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. Representative Dženan Đonlagić, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9036	I thank the chairman, I welcome all present. So I would just like to make a record of, or record my vote "for" by point 37 of the previous session, on a regular basis. So it was twice voted and my vote was first recorded "yes", and secondly it was voted on so-called. A modified parliamentary initiative, it was required in one word, that is, to be recommended" instead of "seek" so as to ask you to record that I also voted "for" on this modified parliamentary initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9037	I don't see any more reports, thank you, counsel. Of course, these remarks made under this point will be entered into today's, uh, record of this session. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing asked representatives: Saša Magazinović 85 questions; Borjan Krišto three questions; 31 Nikola Lovrinović three questions; Mirko Šarović one question; Nenad Nešić one question; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic one question; SDA representatives referred the initiative; Aida Baručija one question; Dženan Đonlagić one question; Sanja Vulić one question; Damir Arnaut one question; Šemsudin Mehmedović one question; Denis Zvizdić one question. The House College's initiatives were addressed by representatives: Predrag Kožul two initiatives, and Branislav Borenović, Nenad Nešić and Dragan Mektić three initiatives. Until today's session, the following answers were provided: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić's questions were submitted three answers; four answers were submitted to Damir Arnaut's questions; two answers to Aida Baručija's questions; one answer was submitted to Mire Pekić's oral question; one answer was answered to Nikola Lovrinović's question. Any comments on the answers received? Representative Aido Baruči, you have the word of counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9039	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to express my dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Justice, given that the issue in written form was referred to them in 15.10. which reads: According to the report of the Office for the Review of the Institutions of BiH, concerning overtime, I asked for the following information to be supplied to me, for which the Minister's obligation is 290 overtime, and the Deputy Minister's driver has 498 overtime hours, to provide all the necessary information on the day, the driving route and the reason for driving and the number of overtime, the fee for the net amount? I referred to the same question on 30.11. not a day today, and I did not get that answer, so I would draw attention to the Ministry of Justice that, according to the Rules of Procedure, they are obliged to answer my question within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9040	Thank you, counselor. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, commentary, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9041	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all those present in the hall, since I'm reporting for the first time. So I got, as you said, one answer and I set three answers(?) Chiefs of the municipalities of Zenica, Kakanj and Bugojno, and this is the number of total employees in the administration of these municipalities and national compositions. I was answered by the Mayor of Kakanj Municipality, which I thank him for, therefore, because he really responded quickly, and I will comment, and for what I should give this all for when I get the full answers and when it comes to this occasion, so to comment on all the answers that we get from the questions I have asked the Commissioners concerned. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9042	Thank you very much, counsel. I don't see any more comments. Finalizing comments on this agenda item. Before we move to point 3 in accordance with point (f) of Article 27, I shall limit the duration of the debate to all remaining points of 5 minutes. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Nenad Stevandić for inclusion in the agenda of the 15th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives of Parliament reads: "The conclusion reached by which the Parliamentary House of BiH asks the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to apply Article 38 when considering the application for the registration of the vaccine against the virus. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 58/08), No. 01-50-1-15-15-15/20 of 11. 1. 2021. After the last House session did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting, the House College as a committee failed to reach agreement on that proposal by Representative Nenad Stevandić. The College's report you received, the debate is closed, we remain to make a later statement on, in the second round of voting on the proposal for MPs. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Jasmin Emrić to discuss the Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for August 2020, the applicant: the BiH Ministry of Security, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is requesting that the Council of Ministers urgently, at the first next session, put out of force a conclusion adopted at the extraordinary phone session 31. 12. In 2020, which explicitly calls on the authorities of the UN-San canton and the City of Bihac to respect the stated valid decision and without delay to accept and accommodate a certain number of migrants to the location of Bira, number: 01-50-1-1749/20 of 11. 1. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9057	Thank you. I would just add one more conclusion after, just to say that the process of this digitalisation in BiH has been going on for 16 years, that the first activities took place in 2006, but BiH institutions did not exercise the necessary activities in a timely manner to ensure the completion of the digitalisation process within defined deadlines by 01.12.2011 and by 01.12.2014 at the latest by 17.06.2015. BiH is one of the few countries that still broadcasts analogue TV signals and comparisons for the sake of Croatia's digitalisation of TV signals ended in 2010, so for a period of four years, and Serbia in 2015 for a period of nine years. So BiH has not yet completed the digitisation process. In addition to this conclusion, I would like to propose another one of this Review Report – To be in charge of the Council of Ministers to ensure independent supervision and to report regularly on implementation and digitisation activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9058	Thank you. Representative Edin Mušić, debate, please welcome MP. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9059	The Honorable Chairman, co-chaired, esteemed fellow MPs. By reading this revision and this material, I would like to ask a few questions that might be a suggestion to supplement this revision within these about fifteen days, which are not contained in this document. One of these issues, which is not precise or I have not read enough of that, is not detailed in this revision on the scope of the use and impact of the equipment obtained. So the effect of the equipment obtained and its use is not detailed, in my opinion, described. The other thing, why isn't the property issue discussed in the revision, as one very important question, over this equipment that was purchased, why isn't it owned by the corporation? I think this review was supposed to contain that. And the third question – why did the revision recommendations not indicate and recommend that the next phase of digitisation involves investments or investments of 30 million KM and that it must be followed by the implementation of the Public Broadcasting Act, i.e. to form a corporation? I think these are the essential things that this revision should have and I expect that in this next period until, these fifteen days, it is in line with this conclusion that the College has proposed, that this question be complemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9060	Thank you, Agent Mušić. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Planning and conducting training of employees in BiH institutions", applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-10-2465/20 of 23. 12. 2020. The College of the House has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider this Report. The Committee delivered its opinion, the report was accepted and addressed to further procedure. I'm opening a debate on the report. Representative Aido Baruči, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9062	Thank you, Chairman. I would only propose one conclusion in charge of the finance and vault ministry that in the process of preparing and approving training budgets for BiH institutions, the level of control of information on the purpose for which the funds are intended to determine the eligibility of the funds sought. 39 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9063	Thank you, counselor. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Information on the current state of play at the BiH Export Credit Agency caused by the blockade of the main transaction account, applicant: BiH Export Credit Agency, issue: 01,02-50-18-81/21 of 6. 1. 2021. The House College designated the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs as responsible for considering that initiative. The BiH Export Credit Agency subsequently provided a supplement to the information you also received on 29 January 2021. The Committee delivered its opinion, the Committee adopted the Information and agreed with the proposed conclusions contained in the supplement of this information. The conclusions of the supplement are as follows: 1. Ensuring legal assistance to IGA so that IGA can protect and defend its interests in the upcoming court disputes, by borrowing BiH's Attorney General or by hiring a law firm. 2. To implement an emergency deblock of accounts through the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law establishing the IGA or to settle obligations under the judgment and the budget, thereby unblocking the account and ensuring the re-function of the IGA which has so far been able to regularly service its obligations through its business activities. 3. Establish an Interminist Council on the basis of the conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers of 05.06.2018 and in accordance with Article 15. IGA founding law. 4. A working group to be made up of representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of Entity and IGA to work on further guidelines for finding a solution would need to be established, including work on additional amendments and additions to the IGA Law, issues related to the supervision of the work of the Organizational and Structure Agency, how to make decisions on exposures by individual products, defining the coverage of losses and profit schedules, defining IGA relations and owners in relation to entities-states. A clear definition of the products to be implemented by IGA, which are needed by exporters, and the capital to which IGA will also have other issues related to the smooth operation of IGA. I'm opening a debate with this information. Representative Mira Pekić reported for the debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9065	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all fellow Members of Parliament. 40 Here I think that this body, the House of Representatives discussed the most about the situation in the BiH Export Credit Agency, I think now here in this last year, I think we had as much as five, six times on the agenda information and reports. In the last session, the ruling majority adopted a report on the work of the Management Board for 2019, and here we were just hoping that after that report and adoption something new would happen, but again in this session we have on the agenda at the Export-Credit Agency caused by the blocking of accounts. So, two things have happened, one is that in the previous report, adopted by this House, or the ruling majority adopted, we saw that there was a write-off of obligations in the IGA business, so the commitments made for UNIS guarantees of 64 million euros, or 130 million KM. It was then written in this report – that the Agency had received an opinion from Austrian lawyers that the direct guarantees issued by the Agency against Austrian users fall into stalemate unless a trial against the Agency was initiated within three years. Based on the opinion of the lawyer's office in Austria, a write-off of obligations has been made and these obligations have been made, so the picture of the financial agency has been dramatically better. After that, here we again on the agenda have the Status Report at the Export-Credit Agency and the information that the account has been blocked, the account has been blocked due to the guarantee given by IGA Hydrogradnji d.d. Sarajevo, and the supplier was a Croatian company Osijek-Koteks, on this basis the account has been blocked and further business is uncertain. If we go back, and I think everything is said as far as this Export Credit Agency and the problems of the establishment itself are concerned, we know that it is 51 million itself, that it is made up of credit and grant funds, that Republika Srpska has asked to participate in grants, which is not agreed, so we have a position from Republika Srpska and that is one of the conditions, or one of the reasons why the Inter-minister Council is not formed. But what I'm saying at the end, I don't think there's a need to go further into the elaborated whole of this situation, is that in 2011, 2012 and 2013, IGA gave the UNIS a guarantee of 83 million euros, that's about 170 million KM, that's almost 20% of the budget of the joint institutions. This risk that the Export Credit Agency took at the time was so high that the risk of business was so high that today the Export Credit Agency did not recover. We have in the Report a proposal of these measures, one of them is and the one we will only support, that is to protect the interests and capital of the IGA should be... BiH's defence, if involved in all legal affairs, this would mean everything else, translated, that we will pay out of the joint institutions' budget all these commitments that will be due at IGA guarantees. As far as we can see, there are currently about 37 million stamps on guarantees, according to court disputes, which are going to come on the charge, which means that they will be paid out of the budget, there are no other means, and I don't think these conclusions that we've been given are good and we're not going to support them.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9066	Thank you very much. Next for the debate, representative Jakov Galić, outsource the representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9067	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. By reading this information, I'd like to know if there might be anyone here in front of the Agency, is anyone there? I would like to know if it is possible for such an important agency, important from the point of view of BiH's seriousness and credibility, to be managed in such an unserious way. The agency's portfolio was 50 million, and the debts, i.e. guarantees issued by the Agency, were at 41 over 190 million. So, the Agency's business, even though it's not a profit organization, we know that, but there are rules by which you can't issue more guarantees than you have portfolios, than you have the resources you have. And here I see, if I didn't elaborate much, here I see two possibilities, that this agency would be shut down or that a new agency would be formed, of course, without the management that brought the Agency into this state and brought, of course, and the Parliament of this country into the situation that it should pass a lex specialis law by which the Agency's accounts could not be blocked and at the same time the Agency would be protected from possible bankruptcy and liquidation. So, this is incomprehensible to me, as economists are incomprehensible, although it is, therefore, a non-profit organisation that has to take care of where it invests, as it invests, the Agency is important from the point of view of factoring, so our export companies that can't hold on to some kind of long payment deadline should help them to collect these claims, so that the Agency should be bought up and there should act, at the same time provide guarantees for our import houses, but it must all be on sound grounds. I don't see anything here that's been on sound grounds, this is incomprehensible to me this indolence in relation to the spending of state funds is incomprehensible to me, indeed. And I think that the responsibility should be put on the agenda here, first of all, the Agency's management, and then the Management Board, which has been sitting for years, manages the Agency in the worst way possible. So something that is absolutely incomprehensible and needs to be seriously considered, so how to set up the Credit and Export Agency. There are, of course, many, many questions that are absolutely not clear, it is not clear, let's just say, this many lawsuits against the Agency. Is there a lawyer there, are there financial experts who understand finance? This, in my opinion, is completely amateur management of the Agency and with this, of course, I wouldn't accept this report, nor would I let anyone put themselves in a secure position so much that the bill can't be blocked, it's me, it's never heard anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9068	Thank you, Agent Galić. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9069	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Look, the Export Credit Agency was based in 2004 on a 50 million-dollar loan and grant, so this was the portfolio of this Agency and it was still needed today by an institution that helps and guarantees the export affairs of our business entities. However, from the very draft of this agency, it was the same challenge by one of the bh. The entity and it lasted years, but the Agency worked the way she knew and got involved. However, in the Agency’s own business, it also issued guarantees for export transactions from less bh. entity to companies, which is quite understandable, but the problem has arisen when these aggregate guarantees, when they received significant amounts, e.g. The Dervent tube factory's destruction, amounting to 83m euros. It seems to me that there are also elements of organised crime here, since those who followed the imports of steel pipe iron pipe for the export of steel pipes Unis, the Dervent tube factory did not suggest at all IGAs, or the Agency that there was an overrun, that the pipes were not exported, although the material is being imported, that there was no detachment of material if the domestic-market pipes were produced and of course that amount was overgrown throughout the portfolio of this Agency. A legitimate question arises – have some other BiH institutions taken part in this, now fully clear, criminal business and bringing this agency to such a state? Unfortunately, those who have been responsible for the functioning of the Agency have part of their responsibilities, 42 primarily management, then those who have not formed the Interminister Council that should have given focus to this Agency for its functioning and work. Of course, the entity finance ministry, despite all the BiH Council of Ministers. This is not what I'm saying for the Council of Ministers, which is currently current, but for all the Council of Ministers who have preceded this agency's very draft. And we have a situation today where huge damage has been done to BiH, not only to the Agency, the Agency is blocked and it can't function, so here after the blockade it won't be able to pay even the salaries to employees who have a small number there. But what can happen if we do not have the opportunity to protect BiH's interests through this agency, we can cause very large additional material damage. The damage, as I said, is also due to the Agency's lawsuits against other entities, around 193 million KM, on the other hand, because of the failure of the IGA, we also have legal entities' lawsuits against IGAs which are significantly smaller, but they are in sona, and they will have to be proven through court proceedings. Therefore, here, as a member and commission, the ad hoc commission that was formed to investigate what was actually happening in IGA in one of the previous Parliament's calls, here as a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, I believe we must separate this. So, first of all, we need to underline the line so that there is no further material damage to BiH, and then, of course, include all those law enforcement agencies, so if there is work for the judiciary, to determine the responsibility of all those who have led to this situation both in IGA and related to IGA as a credit agency that protects export companies. Therefore, as a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, I support, of course, all four of these conclusions We adopted on the Commission, but I think it is necessary to give the Council of Ministers a deadline to finally define what it wants with the Export Credit Agency, whether it wants to be shut down, whether it wants to be recapitalised, whether it wants to be protected through changes to the law to prevent it from going under the bankruptcy of the existing one, but it must be done by the Council of Ministers, we cannot as Parliament. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Therefore, here I believe that these four conclusions are quite sufficient, with a view to defining the deadline until the Council of Ministers has to determine the future of the Export Credit Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9070	Thank you to Agent Mehmedović. For correcting the wrong allegations, representative Sanja Vulić came forward, you have the word "religious."
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9071	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Well, considering that colleague Mehmedović said smaller bh. Entity, I want to remind him that there is no such term in the Constitution as "smaller bh". The entity," and I ask the public not to call Republika Srpska a smaller bh anymore. By entity, because we're no smaller bh. The entity is already in BiH as well as the Federation. Therefore, if you already have these sincere intentions, as you say, you must respect both entities and all peoples, and if you are constantly speaking the degraded way and disrespecting what your intentions say in the Constitution are not sincere, but rather all the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9072	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9073	I don't really know what my colleague Sanja thought, that I was exactly, incorrectly saying smaller bh. An entity exists, there's a larger bh. The entity, therefore I have told the truth, but as long as officials from the smaller bh. The entity here unconstitutionally mentions the category of joint institutions by then there will be such minimalising expressions when it comes to smaller bh. An entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9074	Thank you. Agent Zukan Helez called to discuss the matter. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9075	Thank you very much, I hope there won't be any frustration as just before when I discussed it with you. As a member of this working body, so the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, I am obliged to say a few sentences. So this is one of the agencies at the state level that is a symbol of BiH, and I think it's a problem for someone, because through a number of Council of Ministers calls, the same problem remains and survives, and no one dares to get into trouble and, yes, solve it. First, there are people who work, who have their families, who have financial obligations, who have loans and that agony lasts long, I don't know how more people out there can work and function at all. And what I would like to focus on, there I have noticed from those who have claims against the Agency that you have criminal persons, you have a man who owns a company in Osijek, who has claims close to 2 million marks or somewhere around a million euros, and who runs from legal regulations and laws from Croatia, is hiding in BiH and, of course, is not the only one. I don't know these others, but I see a lot of banks that are already in bankruptcy, which, in order for everyone to understand me, have failed or failed, also have claims. And according to one of the easiest things to charge from the state is I really can't figure out that we're going to let someone who's running from the legal, legal state of Croatia and is hiding in BiH, who owns the company, take 2 million marks from the BiH state budget, exclusively because of the failure of someone, which is primarily the Council of Ministers. I think that in this case the Council of Ministers may also be held to account, because there are there and when there's silence so you won't react, and to the harm of the state, I think that, uh, this Council of Ministers, if it doesn't do anything, could enter those who are criminally responsible, would be held guilty of the collapse of this agency. I have proposed to the Commission and now I propose one conclusion: to limit the time until it is up to the Council of Ministers to put it on the agenda and solve this problem in one way or another only to tell these people or to shut down that Agency or to do something that the Agency does uninterruptedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9076	Thank you, Agent Helez. I don't see any more complaints on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. 44 We move to point 19 in this case we have little change in relation to what we are, which means adopted, which was proposed, is now point 19. Ad. 19. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the status of the procurement of coronary virus vaccines for the needs of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Predrag Kojović, Damir Arnaut, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Nermin Nikšić, Zukan Helez and Nada Mladina, No. 01-50-18-309/21, Link: 01-50-1-15- 16/21 of 3. 2. 2021. We put this item in today's session. I'm opening a debate. Representative Predrag Kojović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9078	I thank the chairman. čaln 180(c) of the Rules of Procedure says that, which speaks of the rights and duties of the Council of Ministers, it is up to its representative to participate in the House and the House's committee meetings and, at the invitation of the Colleges. I, at this point, if I don't see anyone from the Council of Ministers present in this room and if you agree that my findings are correct, the chairman, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break, to allow you to have a person adequate, to represent the Council of Ministers at this point in the agenda, to be invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9079	Thank you, Your Honor, Yours, of course, is the right to take a break. This information, i.e. paragraph 19, is not the proposal for a point by the Council of Ministers, but is of the meaning of the legislator, so at the moment, they are not obliged to sit or to sit, but the Rules of Procedure say – when their point is on the agenda. But, of course, if you're staying with your proposal, the proposal to request a break we will, I'll take a break, but this point we can continue the debate and discuss, means, without the presence of members of the Council of Ministers. Predrag Kojović, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9080	I'm sorry, I'm, I didn't have an option, uh, except for this one, to say I'm back in line, so I apologize. But can you just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure says that the Council of Ministers or their representatives are obliged to attend only those points they propose?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9081	Article 180 added – within the rights and duties set out in the Constitution of BiH, the Council of Ministers Act, may file and propose laws to the House and deliver opinions on the proposals of a law which is not the proposer, may request the call for a meeting of the House to discuss 45 issues on which it wishes to present its position through... a representative is required to participate in the House's meetings and the House's commission, and, at the invitation and at the meetings of the Colleges. We've called, but this isn't a point, so d) has the right to intervene in discussions, may ask, all of these are business obligations. I am still obliged to tell you that we have received as Home and notice that the Council of Ministers is currently under way. So here, I just wanted in terms of, uh, the promoter who said he was looking for a break, do you stay with the proposal? You're looking for a half-hour break?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9082	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9083	15 minutes. I'm giving a 15-minute break at the motion's request.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9084	Then we'd better take a big break.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9085	Then maybe, I have a proposal, we from, college members, since we didn't take this break, so let's put it together, so let's give, here, all the expensive break of an hour, is that quite enough? So now it's 14:20 or 30, I'll see you here at 3:30. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. We are at point 19. We took a break and we called, here, in front of the Council of Ministers we have a presence outside the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the chairman of the Council of Ministers called in a break and said as soon as he finished the press conference that he would join the session and attend the session. Here at this very moment is coming, thank you very much, we can continue. Here, I don't see any further reports of debate on this agenda point. Representative Arnaut, debate, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9087	So here, given that Tegelti chairman has joined in, this is where the Council of Ministers is looking for information on issues concerning the procurement of vaccines, and I think it is best that the chairman of the Tegelti says what the Council of Ministers has done on the matter, where we are, as long as we are, will we also receive vaccines in BiH as a result of the work of the Council of Ministers, and then the representatives will be able to adequately participate in the debate once we hear if there is any information about the status of the vaccine supply, whether anything is launched. Here, let's hear the man out, and then let's get involved in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9088	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9089	Not to waste my discussion, I'll just report that, uh, I'm supplementing this with what I think is important that the chairman of the Council of Ministers tells us, and that is, why has the Council of Ministers not been in the procedure so far, by urgent procedure, by amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act in order to properly place themselves in relation to the purchase of vaccines, i.e. to avoid any legal obstacle? Or why haven't we received any amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices so far, where what you promised at the press conference would be allowed to go directly to the manufacturer because the law does not allow it? And if you know whether the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has amended the Regulation on the issue of a marketing authorisation, since it is also one of the obstacles, if not if you talked to them whether they intend to do it and why at this point, and not when it was time to talk about everything...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9090	Agent, just to remind you, because you misused the correction of the wrong assumption, you didn't correct anyone, this is all that you brought out that should have been brought out through the debate. I don't see any more reports at this point. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers want to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9091	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My fellow Members, gentlemen, I am sorry that this item of the agenda today has been included in this session of the agenda, there has been an opportunity to prepare in writing one piece of information about what we've been doing and as it has been done here, not the Council of Ministers, this is a job that is not done by the Council of Ministers, this is a job done by the Ministry of Health, this is a job done by the governments of the entity together as a Council of Ministers and the Government of the Brcko District. I'm sorry that today is not even the minister of civil affairs who coordinates these activities with the entity health departments and who knows more about these things than I do, because she was not at today's Council of Ministers meeting. What I want to tell you right now is that I'm going to repeat a few of the things that I said today, but for the public's sake, it's all debates that we know what this is about. I hope you won't limit me with time, so I can say everything here, that I don't participate in any of the following replicas, debates and so forth. With the appearance of COVID-19 as deeply aware that this is a global problem, in the very process of obtaining medical equipment, protective means, Council of Ministers, government entities etc. They have accepted the agreement and the European Commission's offer to be part of the global system of procurement of safeguards, medicines and all that arises in this procurement process. I must confess to you at the outset there was some awkwardness and difficulty in getting equipment from the EU, but afterwards, the EU was certainly the biggest donor of medical equipment, funds, protective equipment and all that, and was our most reliable partner with all this. Of course, there were others who helped BiH, different countries, international humanitarian organisations, etc. and we are all grateful for the help they have come to BiH regarding the control of the pandemic COVID-29 all these funds that have come either material or money have ended up in, with the Government of the Federation, with the Government of the Republika Srpska and Brcko district, no converting marks, no piece of protective equipment we have kept at the level of joint institutions except for the parts of equipment we have given to the Border Police and Armed Forces 47 BiH. Guided by this idea and by the procedure that has been launched and for the system of procurement of vaccines, where it was clear that in the world the vaccine was treated as a global good, which must be available to the whole world, and not only to the largest and richest countries, which have much more power and financial and each other, at one point to provide and the vaccine for themselves, for their citizens, but to provide the vaccine for the whole, the whole world, of course, in proportions, both to the strength and to the size of those countries, and therefore BiH has decided to approach so-called. The Kovaks vaccine delivery system, which was followed primarily by the World Health Organization and some other institutions. And here we are in agreement, again I want to say, with the entity health ministries, the entity governments, another 186 countries have joined. These are the jobs we started in July 2020, on September 18, 2020, we signed an agreement with Kovaks on the purchase of 1,230,000 vaccines and already on September 18, we paid the first advance of $1,971,200 for the purchase of the necessary portion of the vaccine. The remaining amount, the total amount for the purchase of these 12.997,600 dollars, has been paid by BiH and became a full member of the procurement system and has agreed on 1,232,000 doses, of which 800,000 doses of vaccines are the Federation, so much has been paid, Republika Srpska 400,000 and Brcko 32,000 doses. This number of vaccines is sufficient for 20% of the population and refers only to the first order requested by the competent health institutions in accordance with these instructions that we have obtained. The Kovaks portfolio today includes Fajzerva and AstraZenekina vaccine, with vaccines from Chinese producers showing up in the Kovaks system yesterday or today. On 6 January, we received notice that by the end of January or early February, the first dose of vaccines from the Kovaks system will be delivered. Later, on January 18th, we received further information and written notice that tzd would. Fieser's vaccines come at about 27,000 doses with the start of delivery in mid-February 2021, and that AstraZaneka vaccine of up to 259.000 doses will come from mid-February to the end of February. That's the information we really have, we're what we needed to do to pay the total amount of 1,232,000 vaccines we've paid in full. In agreement with the EU, the EU Delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in agreement with competent health institutions, ordered 892,000 doses of vaccines from through a common procurement system with the EU. You know very well that at this point in the EU procurement system there are currently three vaccines and that they will all be in a portfolio to be delivered to BiH. The total value of all these vaccines of 892,000 vaccines is 13.700,000 euros, of which 85% will be used to obtain vaccines and 15% for so-called vaccines. vaccine material. And this amount of vaccine supplies from this system and the Kovaks system for BiH has been secured, estimated to have, that there will be enough doses of vaccines for 40% of the BiH population. I would like to remind you that at the end of 2020 we were talking about the vaccine until the end of the quarter of 2021, when we saw that there was a problem in particular in the EU when these vaccines would arrive, the presidents of the entity government, Mr Višković and Mr Novalić and I held meetings and agreed that BiH would start to negotiate the procedure for the purchase of vaccines and other producers not in the Kovaks system, these vaccines that have now been confirmed, but to start the procurement and vaccine from the system produced by Russian and produced by Chinese producers. It is clear to everyone, at that meeting, that the procurement of vaccines is being carried out by entities, that the process is being conducted by the health ministries, but we wanted a joint performance towards suppliers to show BiH's common interest. All requirements for obtaining vaccines have been united and it is a requirement to obtain 120,000 vaccines from Russia, out of which 100,000 for the Federal Ministry of Health and 20,000 to the Department of Health and Other Services of the Brcko District, while Republika Srpska did show a request to obtain the vaccine through this joint procurement process, as it already negotiated the procurement. As regards the Chinese vaccine, the Federal Ministry of Health has shown a request for 100,000 vaccines, the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of Republika Srpska 80,000 vaccines, the Department of Health and other services of the Brcko District 48 20,000 vaccines, which basically accounts for 200,000 vaccines. And when it comes to direct negotiations, these are the things that we are negotiating with countries, we are negotiating with the embassy of theirs, the countries of Russia and China, and the direct negotiation process that is being conducted through the manufacturer, which is Fajzer, the Federal Ministry of Health has shown the need for 200,000 vaccines, the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska for 50,000 vaccines and the Department of Health and other services of the Brcko District 8,000, which is a total of 258,000 applications for the Fazer vaccine. If we unite it all, if we unite it all, it's about 600,000 vaccines, which is much less than what was already agreed through the Kovaks system and supply across the EU. What I'm trying to say is, and here a question has been raised, someone has been talking from the MPs, about the 2 million that have been allocated by the ministry, the Council of Ministers for the procurement of the vaccine. We did not allocate money to obtain the vaccine, we allocated the money for transport, storage and everything else they needed to do for both the vaccines and the other entity, we allocated as much funds as was estimated to be necessary for the first doses to come and the vaccines and the whole process that will continue and in 2021 the Council of Ministers will provide those funds while all the remaining funds were provided by the governments of the entity and the Brcko District. The entire supply system was reached by an agreement with UNICEF, which further assisted the so-called "UNICEF". The cold vaccine supply chain and we are absolutely ready to accept those vaccines today. It is not about the problem of money for the purchase of vaccines, I said in today's response to the parliamentary question that we gave about 40 million money to the entities from the joint institutions' budgets, planning that these entities were looking for, we could have paid for, say, and for the purchase of vaccines, but the agreement was that the Council of Ministers provided funds, transportation, storage, everything that was related to both entities, and that vaccines were paying and obtaining entities. The whole process that has been defined is for the entities and the Brcko district to adopt their vaccination plans and this is all over including the Brcko District Department. The vaccination plans defined the first healthcare professionals and auxiliary staff in health institutions, then the population over 65 years of age and then the persons and staff of the institution for the accommodation of the elderly. When we talk about the laws that define the authorisation for imports of certain vaccines, when we talk about procedural laws, which you are talking about, about the Public Procurement Act, I want to tell you that we have held a meeting with all the competent institutions, from the Agency for Medicinal Products, RES, the Prime Minister of Entity, and that meeting has established a complete order of how this process of registration of the vaccine is being carried out, how the delivery to the competent institutions is carried out and how the procurement is carried out. From the attitudes of all those people involved in this work, it is said that there is no need to change the Law on Public Procurement, nor is there a need to change the Law on Medicinal Products or what is further fully called. I was also present at this session when, I think, MP Stevandić suggested that, the Agency should decide that all vaccines registered by the European Medicines Agency are automatically registered by the BiH Medicines Agency. They clearly said they had no need to amend their regulations and that all vaccines contained in BiH could be registered for two, up to three days, and there was no need to amend the Law on Medicinal Products, or amendments to their regulations. They also said of the Drug Act, and they also said of the Public Procurement Act. What I'm quite sure is that very soon through the Kovaks system we'll get both the first Faisers and the AstraZeneka vaccines and that after that, it's only the first shipments and then the so-called. Continuing order of administration with vaccines. We expect a very quick confirmation from the European Commission when the first deliveries will come to the European Commission supply system. What we don't know at this point, what we don't know at this point, we haven't received accurate confirmation from either Chinese producers or Russian producers, and when they can deliver the first vaccines from this system that we're negotiating with them today. What Fajzer promised us, of course, and writtenly to confirm, that they can deliver the first vaccines for BiH through this system of direct agreements at the end of March. 49 I ask you to have confidence in the institutions, above all, the Agency for Medicinal Products, which is responsible for registration, in healthcare professionals, that they will implement this vaccination process as necessary and that we do not open up any big doubts and fears to the public, because I think we will soon begin the vaccination process in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9092	Thank you to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija. Representative Predrag Kojović spoke for the debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9093	I thank the chairman. I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for having responded to this item of the agenda. I'm really always trying to choose words, not to contribute to a general cacophony in political space, and that's what I'm going to try to do, this one, and when it comes to this topic. Dear Chairman, you have already told us this morning when asking questions, you have already once told us all these steps you have taken and who have brought us nowhere, because the situation and I hope you do not have, as you would say, that we do not have a debate about it, in BiH no person has been vaccinated, and you know as well as I do what the situation in the region and in Europe and in the world in terms of vaccination. I also don't have to remind you, if you don't already have an interest, as I would say, in the health of the citizens, if you have any economic interest in this country, the projections that talk about this, uh, how much each day of this lokdown basket compared to getting the vaccine. You said yourself, that strong countries with a lot of money and large orders have, as I would say, a priority, you said yourself and why BiH didn't behave like that then. Since Brcko or the entity, we have, of course, various administrative units in this country, but it would certainly be that, for BiH citizens, the best chance of BiH getting the vaccine is if it comes uniquely in negotiations with producers and in terms of the amount of vaccines and in terms of payment. And I don't understand how it's possible that you're in charge, that you've agreed, as you say, I don't understand who you agreed with, probably with the entity prime ministers, that you're in charge of getting a refrigerator for vaccines, but you're not in charge of getting a vaccine. When it was completely logical that it was the other way around, the refrigerators can be made, are manufactured in Croatia today, you get a refrigerator in seven days for minus –72o. All the vaccines you've listed, the amount, that's not enough to have, to say, to be protected from that disease, that percentage of the substance that you've stated that you've ordered the vaccines, is not enough either. I must admit this, too, here, I say, this, from the beginning of your mandate, seems to me, and I would like you to reassure me, uh, that the purpose of your mandate is actually to show BiH as an dysfunctional and therefore unnecessary state, and to leave operational, functioning and managing lives of people to entities and the Brcko District. And I think if it's your political platform, then I think you're really in a place where, as I say, we shouldn't be. We need someone who sees BiH as a state and cares for all its citizens equally as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It is quite clear to you, as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, that one entity self-provides a certain dose of vaccines, and at this point in Sarajevo Airport, there is this small amount of Russian vaccines, whose approval and that number of two thousand vaccines will last until February 15th, and imagine what will happen when 400 000 come or when 1,200,000 vaccines arrive. This is indeed, in my opinion, one of the few issues that 50 of our deep and difficult divisions concerning the ethnic past, this is the simplest thing called the health and life of every citizen in BiH and the salvation of the economy that will also endanger the health and lives of our people. And I must admit that I really expected that in a situation like this, which is exceptional, which happens once in a hundred years, you would show, as I would say, one leadership ability and one, one basic kind of patriotism towards people with whom you share history, language and future.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9094	Thank you, counsel. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9095	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize for earlier, you're right, misused the replica, just so you don't undo the discussion. So, the chairman began the presentation with the words – I am sorry that this is how the item is put on the agenda. And we regret that he didn't remember, and I think he has a political responsibility, to put this on the agenda with his associates and offer us more precise answers to what he gave. And you say -- the established order of procurement, there's no need to change laws, the Agency doesn't need to change the rules. But how, you didn't tell us how, you were told, I believe that Novalić was also told by the respirator that he shouldn't, so there's a man in court now. So, how do you get out for a pay phone and answer us, what are the clearly established steps? How are you going to negotiate directly with the manufacturer, if the law tells you you don't have the right to do that, that you can only negotiate with the wholesalers? You're saying we have, that we should trust the institutions. How will we trust the institutions, how will we have, after the respirator, that we trust the institutions, after we have to self-organize to talk about this, not to suggest, that we trust the institutions? After the dates of arrival of the vaccine are announced, then the fifth, then the 15th, then the 20th, then January, and February, so there is no, how shall we trust? How will we trust when the elemental question of how you will proceed is your answer – they said it can be done. And you run a process as long as you hide behind someone else or you should lead. In particular, in the case of the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19, the tenderer may only be a representative of a foreign vaccine manufacturer, who, in order to carry out wholesale and imports, must have a valid licence, special certificates issued by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and a registered activity. So, the contract is a big drug deal and you can't buy directly from the manufacturer or maybe you can, but you don't explain to us how or maybe consciously you're going to break the law, which is your right, but they also have some sanctions on it. A representative of a foreign drug manufacturer must have concluded a representation contract with a foreign producer certified by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so you are in the Council of Ministers. This contract must be stored in the court register of the competent municipal court and recorded in the registration of business entities. Again, if you are, you're going through the wholesale, but you're notifying the public that you're going directly into the factory to buy. So come out and explain to us how, because the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices does not recognise the possibility of importing vaccines into BiH directly from the manufacturer. So if you, if what you said at the press conference is true, you had to amend the law, if you found any other way to let us know that we know and inform the public that what you said at the press conference is not true. And yes, my colleague Stevandić suggested one option, which again includes amendments to the regulations on the issue of marketing authorisations, I expected you to tell us 51 today, since you are at the head of the Council of Ministers, whether it is done and whether this option may be the one you will use and whether the Agency meant it, but you cannot go out and say with all due respect to you and your function, I am told that nothing is necessary. It is very, very, very irresponsible and irresponsible and we cannot trust the institutions after such a step. I still expect that you will go out and tell us exactly how the vaccines will be imported, whether through the wholesalerry, whether directly as you promised, in a way that no BiH law will be violated, that eventually none of you will get a criminal report and end wouldn't be nice. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9096	Thank you, counsel. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać reported for the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9097	I am sorry again when we engage on such very important topics, let us engage, this entire House in a debate that does not have, a debate that does not have adequate conditions in terms of, I will dare say, and the capacity of the negotiators on this subject, with all due respect we are all MPs, some of us understand a little more about this subject, but we are lowering information from all health inframation public health information is most sensitive, because their use, abuse, manipulation, etc. It reflects most directly on a large number of citizens. I said at the press conference a moment ago, that all these discussions would lead us into a mistrust in an extremely important process, and he should be coming out of raising collective immunity, here in particular in the case of this hoof. This is a pure abuse of the subject and what I have to say, which you won't understand, we live in a world where we live and vaccines, even though they are of direct importance to health, to lives, etc. They're still a slave. We as a market, whatever we are, first we are not the only country, neither Macedonia has started the vaccination, I have checked the information, there is no knowledge of the kata, neither is Montenegro, and this part of Serbia, Kosovo, has not begun either, Serbia knows how well it is going. As far as we are concerned, we are not alone, we have as many residents as we have, we have health systems as we have, and we have a clear example that one of the health systems in Republika Srpska has done a little better, and in full compliance with the laws currently applicable both from public procurement and according to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which, hopefully, during February of the month will be the first people vaccinated in Republika Srpska. The fact that some other system may not have been able to manage or did not go that way in time is the most important fact to me, but the fact that I have already heard from the chairman's council of ministers several times, that at this point no one from the health system, and not from the system of government within the Council of Ministers and the entity government has missed anything, the funds have been paid in time, the organisation set up, the coordination set up, but when... you have a situation, do you read the news, that last week, I think, that the EU has found itself in a situation that feels deceived, feels, takes, in the global sense of BiH with 3.5 million or how many residents in the context of distribution and trade in this kind of goods, do not really bid on what kind of place we are, and where we are, I won't say, the tail of events. What is, behold, colleague Magazinović asked, how is possible. So here I was asking how Republika Srpska did it, fully in accordance with the law. So, the fact is that the only drugs can import, but if you have an epidemic and then you talk to the majors, you accept... The government of Republika Srpska, i.e. through the Institute of Public Health, the Ministry of Health and Social Protection entered into negotiations with certain 52 major drugstores, the wholesalers with the suppliers, on the basis of the information collected, the negotiation process, the means provided, the transportation provided and the provision of everything needed in that chain, and do not speak as an end-user when you do not have... when you do not have full compliance with all of these conditions for the registration of the medicinal product or medical means, so you have an IM, which in this particular case, the Republika Srpska has also applied. So the worst thing that could have happened, I've heard all sorts of things here, and this, whatever information, the maltene turned out to be at one point, and some parties blame themselves for not changing the Public Procurement Act, so who, my Bog, some people got sick and died, so to what extent we manipulate it with this important information, I'm really surprised, and to what extent we're willing to go into populism and I don't know what on this important subject. Accept the fact, let each of you accept all of your work and we'll have regrets, we're not a big country, even if we all went, I don't know, with 3.5 million, that's how it is, but there's a chance in this legal framework if we want to, if we want to do it, we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9098	Thank you. Representative Nenad, and pardon Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9099	Very brief chairman. A kolegica, Novaković, said two, for me, valuable things. The first, which is not related to vaccines, which is that it has very clearly separated Serbia and Kosovo, as two countries in terms of this whole process. And secondly, that she said what the chairman does not want to go out for a pay phone and says, which is that BiH citizens are offered incorrect information that we will negotiate directly with the manufacturer, i.e. that the procurement goes and only so the law allows, through velodrogries, or through intermediaries, and I think it is fair that you go out for a pay phone and say that what you said at the press conference, we will buy and negotiate directly with producers is not true, because this law does not allow you, but it will be just like that, as counterpart Snježana Novaković said, through mediators, if you will be working for free of charge or have some profit, that is another topic, but I think it is fair to inform the public about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9100	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9101	So here is exactly what Mr. Magazinović was saying, so what the chairman of the Council of Ministers and counterparts Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać said just doesn't stand. This is a matter of trust, i.e. a question, a direct question of trust in what the Council of Ministers' chairman promises. Not to repeat what Mr Magazinović was saying, whether, on direct contracts, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said on January 04th – we will choose the safest, this is a direct quote, we will choose the safest supply channels, and we think it is in co-operation with the EU, so BiH citizens will get the vaccine within the deadlines planned and for EU citizens. You said that on January 04th, and the first vaccination in the EU 53 took place on December 27th, so the moment you said it, we were not already within the EU deadlines. And here we are right here exactly a month after your statement, the EU is already inoculating largely, and we still don't have vaccines, except, is it, the ones standing in the warehouse, and the fact is that no one has been vaccinated yet. So it's about how we can even believe everything the Council of Ministers Chairman said here. So here we now have some other promise that it will be in a month, in two, first quarter, end of first quarter, etc. Just go out and tell the citizens of BiH, if you stick to these deadlines, how do you intend to achieve it, so give us some concrete steps to see what you are building on, because here are these earlier promises that have proved not only unfulfilled, but impossible, because five days after the EU has begun to vaccinate, you then promised the citizens that we, uh, will keep the deadlines of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9102	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9103	First of all, I guess my colleague Magazinović didn't even hear me when I said that this part of Serbia, Kosovo, did not, uh, start with the vaccination, I was very precise. As far as these others are concerned, everything else still remains that my colleagues, uh, say, I'm just going to say that it's just going to track this thing down that it's trying to make on an extremely important topic a populist political story that won't make us, no matter what you think and whoever thinks he was in the role of any health minister, any chairman of the Council of Ministers, etc. It won't speed up, nor is it possible at this point, if you want to respect the facts that are available to us all through different channels. So we're in a time of the unprecedented crisis so far, I mean, in the 21st century or the end, in the last 50 years, of the public health crisis of the global level, and so all that you're trying to honor the chairman, etc. I repeat again, no consumer action has been missed in accordance with the law, in accordance with the established rules of conduct in this crisis globally, and that is a fact, and everything else you have the right to talk about, but you remind me a little bit of that, uh, really sometimes, unfortunately, of completely uninformed people in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9104	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9105	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, colleagues Bursać, so you're wrong, this is not an abuse of position at all, which Mr. Magazinović says, and you know why he's not, because we let it happen. So, when I tell you, I'm talking about the parliamentary majority, so this is the highlight, to me, of what's been happening to us for almost two years. So, we can't agree to, like, work as a Parliament and as a parliamentary majority and that the Council of Ministers does what we say and that the Council of Ministers reports as prescribed and, of course, the gentlemen use it and all their honors, all their honors, so. We allow, I speak again to us from the SDA, from the HDZ, from the SNSD, so let us once come to the Council of Ministers' information and work and to account for the parliamentary majority and to do what the parliamentary majority requires. With all due respect to the marginal parties and the needy deputies, to have the right to propose, to have 54 rights to demand and today you have initiatives, so today they have said today, so you have the conclusions of twenty that are not being implemented, so we are making illegal conclusions, we are making illegal decisions, we are calling the Central Election Commission against the law, nothing at all, because we from the parliamentary majority are taking part in this, and I'm afraid it will remain until the end. On the other hand, it's going to get worse and worse, maybe this is the highlight, and I'm sorry it's on this wheel, because it really narrows down the attention, and management is colleagues, so this has to be answered. So come on, let's get the act ready, let's put the Council of Ministers in charge, let people lay down their accounts and let the parliamentary majority work. Do we have to fear every initiative, Lord, with all due respect, and raise our hands for what they seek? Let's be in power, let's take power, let's answer for it, I don't mind, so I apologize, you're wrong, people are using what we just serve them, and so it is, so today we'll still have five, six points to talk about, we'll talk about, we'll draw conclusions that Mr. Borenović won't take time or will, I don't know, because it's all like that, so it's good for you, so it's either good for you or we'll come to your senses. be the parliamentary majority in this House or this will take this to ask Bog how long this doesn't actually lead to anything, not for opposition, not for us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9106	Representative Saša Magazinović is third, you did not get the words, you have the third correction of the wrong allegation. Representative Damir Arnatu is next, here you go, MP, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9107	Thank you. What parliamentary majority, Mr. Lovrinović, here I am now counting if the opposition comes out of this room without a quorum, which you're talking about, you want to get out of the O.R. and you can't hold a session, what kind of parliamentary majority can't hold a session because there's no quorum. So we're right, maybe we will, so if you're talking about the parliamentary majority, draw 22 here first, then let's see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9108	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9109	In fact, this is what my colleague Lovrinović said, very frankly and very correctly and indeed you hit the bottom line, in most of these conclusions and initiatives that were adopted in the House of Representatives, you participated and, even one part was adopted unanimously, especially that part concerning regular monthly reporting by the Council of Ministers when it comes to COVID-19. We believe that, that the Council of Ministers respected the decision of the House of Representatives in which you and your colleagues from other ruling parties, since 09 December 2020, I repeat, when we said that the Council of Ministers is in charge of delivering at least once a month to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly updated information on the situation in BiH regarding the pandemic of the coronary virus, including data on the number of tested etc. etc. and further measures aimed at the protection of the health and life of citizens and the recovery of economic damage caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, etc. We could talk about these things on January 09th or at that session 10th, 11th, and maybe 55 months early to warn certain events, open topics and thus run, what you said, the Council of Ministers to start doing their job. I think that's the interest of all of us, and that's why our reaction is completely justified, completely logical and has nothing to do with politics, but we want to respect what we have agreed here, what we have adopted here, behind which we have stood up to a qualified majority or even unanimously and probably the situation would be completely different and we would not talk about things that are pointless, which we are talking about today, and I am convinced, here's my only question will be in discussion – is any of these all of these powerful vaccines registered for imports to BiH, until today? I have a feeling it's not, like I have information a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9110	Thank you. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9111	First, let me say that Mrs. Bursać, whether, said Kosovo and Serbia, you can look at the stenogram, and if that's not true, and you mentioned Kosovo, then why didn't the other parts of Serbia mention Vojvodina, Sandzak, etc. or you slipped, after Israel confessed to Kosovo, and the furthest it went into vaccination, so maybe they have some, uh, co-operation. Secondly, I want to say that although Mr. Lovrinović and I do not agree on many things, we often replicate, I want to congratulate him publicly, there are few people from all political parties who would react from a part of the position like this. Unfortunately, the gentleman has told one true truth, and so we all need to work in the future, because this is the state of all of us, it's not mine any less than Nikola Lovrinović or Borjana Krišto or anyone else. You can't, uh, Madam Chairman, you can't just break people up with legal business violence and hide everything that's been done, because I'm one of the signatories of one new law, the new agenda points, and I didn't want to argue with you just for a reason, here's what you belong to, is it, the softer half, and I'm the signator of one law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9113	And you used legal violence, look up to your colleague Lovrinović... no one in this room is satisfied, and we all keep quiet, we all like to have high wages, but we don't earn it, I'm ashamed when they ask me home, what, where have you been, what. So, we're doing nothing, a year of four laws, small interventions, and I'm asking you to get serious, this is for the good of all of us, and that in the Council of Ministers, the members of the SDP staff, I would react just like my colleague Lovrinović. A fellow congratulatory one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9114	Representative Nenad Stevandić, debate, please welcome MP. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9115	Thank you very much. First of all, let me say, uh, consider myself competent to talk about this subject without any advertising or marketing stunts. As for Serbia and Kosovo, Serbia has also provided vaccines for all these territories in Kosovo where health homes receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but have been threatening to come and burn them, so at night colleagues had to return via Ibra at the border and are now doing so in border municipalities. So Serbia has also provided for Kosovo, for where there is, let's say, the administration of the Serbian Ministry of Health, so whatever you're trying to use to tell the story of Serbia and Kosovo, it doesn't deserve the health of the BiH citizens, and it wasn't anything to say, the need to target counterpart Bursać... possibly, I don't know, your interpretation of someone's speech. As far as vaccines are concerned, you know that in BiH, health ministries in entities are getting medicines through health insurance funds, different channels are getting everything that has to do with medicine and respirators and stents and plasma and everything else, and so are the vaccines. Of course, because of the emergency situation, the Council of Ministers needed to be involved and involved in making it all better. As for the work of the institutions, where I am not at all satisfied with the Medicines Agency, I think that they have slept through this pandemic for a year, they have so far had to change and ask for permission to amend ten regulations and for protective equipment and for some medicines used in the first two days of the infection, they have been able to address the Council of Ministers a million times, and they may think that Zoran Tegeltija should come to them to do their job, wait or to do something from Parliament. It's a problem under the Council of Ministers, because institutions are paralyzed, you can't even replace anyone, you can't tell anyone anything, they're all little gods, much bigger than all of you here or me or so, and that's how they behave, so it's all below. Now let me tell you what my colleague Magazinović was saying, I don't know if it was or if it was Kojović, whether it was out of ignorance or not, uh, as far as imports are concerned. I'm telling you, since I know that Republika Srpska, I'm involved, so we were worried, and December 15th were the first video conferences of the Institute of Public Health and Gamalea, meaning those of the State Fund of Russia which is all... December 15th and it was all over and of course it was not imported through the state, because the Law on Public Procurement knows wholesalerry, so the major drugstores already have two Republika Srpska's approvals, contracts and they will import and that law has not been broken. But I also think the Medicines Agency had to monitor the situation, so it wasn't, I didn't order the Institute of Public Health or Alen Šeranić, the other day they had a ZUM conference with Sinofarm, the Chinese vaccine manufacturer, so that's their job to find and say gentlemen we found, buy. She also had to work for the Agency for Medicinal Products, so we have this institutional problem and from where the health of citizens really is concerned. I felt humiliated at the last session, many of you Federation colleagues voted against my initiative on Article 38. Fortunately later you adopted her in another initiative by Mr. Zvizdić, I am not jealous of me, it is a health issue, and not who suggests it, but I am disappointed that it works so that if I suggest you knock it down, and if Mr. Zvizdić proposes you will then, this one as he calls it, support it, because my initiative is identical to what Mr. Zvizdić suggested fell on a member, fell apart by apostroping the possibility that the Agency for Medicinal Products.... Article 38. I think that what is now late in Republika Srpska for these trial two thousand doses and what is waiting to be said is going to be a day, two, I think it's over, at least that's how I got, for the freighter, that there's also the Agency for Medicinal Products to make a new rule, because these are emergencyes, which are the first vaccines largely, coming first out of the crisis, the gross social 57 products, relieves health workers, reduces mortality, restores economy, hospitality, the full budget. It's my only motive, I don't care who's from which party or if I don't know her, that I can't say against anyone in the Council of Ministers, whoever's wrong, I've been attacking here and some ministers. So, institutionally, there was an appointment and I think that, from the Agency, they lied to the chairman, we had to report that we have every month, because what they do is done in the institutions, it has to go through the intervention imports, the Agency must, so, she hasn't done any circumstantial coordination, and that was crucial, maybe because they've completed these violent criminal reports around the respirator and everything... And this article 38, so is it possible that we as Parliament cannot press both the Council of Ministers and the Chairman, and then he used the Agency for various things when someone needed it, when it wasn't so much a matter of national and state health or entity health. Now that's what bothers me and I'd like to make a contribution to the seriousness of this subject. So what are we supposed to do? Oversight of the Medicines Agency, amending the rules for faster customs duties, not creating problems with freighters, because these vaccines, in particular, currently Russians, are already in place in several European countries, so in the EU, Hungary is the first one, before Serbia began to apply it. Serbia is not in the EU, I don't know what is wrong with Bulgaria or the rest. AstraZeneka is also probably on a similar principle to a Russian vaccine, the next one that could deliver many vaccines, these are the same way of making Sputnjik and AstraZeneke vaccines. So maybe they'll need that, tomorrow the federal ministry will look for And it shall wait four or five days, and it shall be [[the speaker is warned on time]] Now the rule changes, now it's adapting, and now this serious job is being done to get the vaccine started in all of BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What Republika Srpska did 15.20 days ago, because we worked more, it's not up to the Council of Ministers, to the Medicines Agency, it's in charge of Šeranić and the Institute of Public Health, because we pressured them and it's an honor for them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I told you part of the conference, and we were trying Success, every honor, you should do the same thing, it's not a closed system, it doesn't work Republika Srpska for itself. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I didn't propose an initiative. BiH and why this mechanism does not use the Federation, it is open, it does not matter which vaccine or Chinese proverb – it does not matter which cat is the color, it is important to hunt mice. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And cats don't advertise [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9116	I want to warn you,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9117	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9118	all colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs to stick to business times when it comes to corrections and debates. Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9119	I really have to react, haven't I heard, under quotes, from a man who tells himself that he's an expert in this area, so many lies, so many lies about certain institutions dealing with these things. Probably because in this division of party prey you expect 58 to grab the Agency for Medicinal Products, but as a member of the Interim Investigation Commission, I've been paying special attention to everything that's been going on around the respirator, all of them and one of the intervention imports that was in that period, and there have been several hundred of them, and that Agency for Medicinal Products has completed all those who have supplied the papers, the documentation, within two days, cheers for three days. And he's right to chair, who said, that the competent institutions, in this case the Medicines Agency, will end it within two, three days. But the Agency for Medicinal Products needs to get a request, it needs someone to contact her, which you didn't say, which you're not saying until today, now I've checked, not one more, but watch out, zero official requests from wholesalers for importing vaccines didn't come to the Medicines Agency. What are you talking about? Why are you telling the truth that someone is making a deliberate stalemate? Why do you put a target on people when it's not true? The real truth is that these people also gave your friends permission to get a respirator, because they delivered all the papers and should have delivered them and that these people imported the respirators after 105 days, and we'll talk about it when the pandemic passes, is not the time and the amount of respirator is paid to 150,000 marks. The contract was signed in early April, and the respirator was driven or arrived at the end of June, and the Agency for Medicinal Products was granted a permit within 48 hours of April and was doing it much faster and more efficiently than other agencies in the region and you are right, you are the President-in-Office, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. That's it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Transparent and that's what you do when it comes to serious things, and in the discussion, I'll explain what it all looks like. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9120	Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9121	I thank the chairman. Oh, Mr. Stevandić, I'm not going to... and I really don't want to do any harm, uh, and I didn't rephrase my colleague at first, uh, Bursać, but maybe that's what it is, maybe it's not, it doesn't matter. It's a bigger tragedy that you say Serbia sent to Kosovo, it's a bigger tragedy that in a situation like this when the world is one global village, when everyone trembles in front of that virus, when they have no solutions, that Serbia can't reach Uroševac and tell you here's the vaccine, and there's no humanitarian action. But I heard this great news in the break, that Serbia's prime minister is offering as a donation to the citizens of Canton of Sarajevo about 8,000 vaccines, and that's one good news, and we need to promote the good news. And why are we now leading the controversy, so just, as my colleague Magazinović says, if we had saved a single sentence... we would have saved huge amounts of money and saved many lives, only one sentence is changed in the Public Procurement Act and we could have done it in one day and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and then we directly obtained from the manufacturer, no mediators, but obviously as everyone in BiH sees, colleague Borenović, in that process some more actors are involved, more money needs and many pockets are fuller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9122	Correction of the wrong alleged representative Predrag Kojović, you have the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9123	I thank the chairman. And here's what I'd like to do is somehow put things back on, through my line, or say the correction of Mr. Stevandić's false quote, which is very often performed with, of course, justifiably, he's a doctor by profession and, as I would say, speaks often from that aspect. Mr. Stevandić, if all of Republika Srpska is vaccinated, and the Federation is not vaccinated, and you know 59 is if, the virus mutates between 10 to 100 thousand, as I would say, the transmission is approximately and how long it will take before the vaccine that was carried out in RS or in some, as I would say, the neighbouring country becomes irrelevant if we let, as I say, the virus through a further infection, this, as I would say, mutate to forms that no longer respond to vaccination. So you know that system, you know that this is a situation where you can't save one group in isolation without protecting, to say the least, to stop the virus in some way. So you know certainly a very good story about a polyo virus that had the same or the same, as I would say, characteristics and coming back every two, three years and that it had to be, what they say in the people, sat up to the root to say, stop that cycle. So please, we have to think, this isn't, as I would say, political stuff, this, we're all in the same boat and, uh, as I say, we can save ourselves together, but in that sense I was talking about the role of the Council of Ministers, here's for the most selfish reasons. You want in Republika Srpska to protect yourself, you need to vaccinate both people in the Federation and vice versa, it has to stop, a pandemic, otherwise the vaccine will become useless after 10 to 100 thousand, as I would say, transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9124	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9125	So I, Mr. Kojović, really didn't just talk about Republika Srpska, I was talking about BiH, there's going to be a difference in a month in vaccination and it won't disrupt anything, if you're going to scientific information it's true that all these mutations are both South African and British, that they're covered by vaccines,... acting vaccines and not mutated. So it doesn't matter, and even everything... I wanted to say what I was saying about the Drug Agency. Mr. Borenović, you've lit yourself up like someone's refueled, uh, so it's just a good Agency for Medicinal Products, and nothing's wrong with the Council of Ministers. I was saying what to do, that they were supposed to change the rule five times, these are advice, they slept through, they needed at least five regulations to change. According to the 38th article, 16 or 17 things were imported, this is the most urgent thing, this is supposed to welcome the vaccine, it's my contribution to all of it. This one, but now that the PDP man is the Director of the Medicines Agency, let the people protect the Agency and let everything else fail. I'm talking about institutional work, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers can't do the work of the Medicines Agency, and then we'll get him, uh, what's called, that kind of responsibility, and we'll protect the Medicines Agency. Here's the thing about pyramids, the Agency for Medicinal Products isn't ready, it hasn't been welcomed, they should have changed the rules on protective equipment, they should have changed the rules on medical devices, they wouldn't have come up with these respiratory problems, so we had to follow the pandemic, I, that's my advice, it has to work tomorrow, who's going to be at the head of the Agency, so maybe I'll be, uh, what it's called, so we'll show, uh, how, it would just be a conflict of interest. But this one, this pandemic was slept over by the Medicines Agency and I didn't say, I didn't separate anything, my initiative didn't refer to the Republika Srpska, it was embarrassingly shot down, but it was related to BiH. I've never separated a patient, I've operated on 5,000 people, certainly a lot from the Federation, especially from... I don't share people, and I don't share vaccines with viruses, so I think the problem is institutionally related to the Medicines Agency and that they need to be ready for the realization to be under way. But we're also in America, some countries are inoculating before, so in a month, it's going to be in BiH, so don't make an international problem out of it. And the purchases go through health insurance funds, which are entity institutions and free purchases if Agency 60 is not ready, I'm not saying that she didn't approve of anything, she's approved, and it's good now that three days of shipping papers are being discussed in order to complete, is that why the hospital tent was returned, because they asked, I don't know, the papers, and they could be tied up by Article 38, they might have had less traffic or less, but we've taken shit like someone's killing someone. So, things have to go on, this is medicine, this is health care. It doesn't matter from which [[the speaker is warned on time]] parties and which are headed by an institution. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9126	Thank you. Advocacy of Nada Mladina, debate, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9127	Honorable presidents, deputies, colleagues and colleagues. I would come back, and not I, but we should go back to the fact that it is a pandemic and that BiH with the whole globe is affected by the pandemic, that the virus does not choose and that it is a sad fact that the citizens of our country, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and probably other countries, have simply turned into numbers that we hear every day through the media how many people are infected, how many people have died, and how many people we part with our citizens, who are individuals and have their rights, have rights to protect. So, BiH citizens within all countries of the world, especially Europe, regardless of being in the EU, have the right to prevent, immunological protection that is not yet guaranteed as a quality by any producer. As far as I've learned from the media, about each of these vaccines can be guaranteed for 80% of the safety and to which any person receiving the vaccine should agree, no matter where it is produced, there is a difference whether the vaccines with the dead cause or whether they have been added to the RNA. However, this debate today reminded me of a discussion at a pediatrician convention in the Republic of Macedonia, the former Yugoslavia, when a fellow pediatrician spoke about infant mortality. Macedonia as a republic then was the only one behind us at the height and percentage of infant mortality, by which, among other things, the quality of health care, but in BiH it was reduced at an accelerated pace after World War II, while in Macedonia it was not quite so. A colleague discussed it so that he said that mortality was decreasing, which of course was encouraging to feel, and then he said that until that period he was investigating, he did not die, he said, Bog forgive me, he did not say any Makedonče died, and for children who are Albanian in Macedonia as if they were not, uh, babies of this planet. Now let's not compete in which party, parties, whether in most, the opposition has set it not because of the spite of most, but because it is the problem of every citizen, the problem of our children, the problem of our relatives, that we lose them, that no one knows how many there are, but every day is given, about it another time. The vakcina should be imported in a legitimate manner as soon as possible, 20% of the population's vaccination with this amount of vaccine, as the Prime Minister's chairman said, so I understood, that it would be enough for 20%, in my humble opinion as a health care worker does not guarantee collective protection. Once upon a time, counterpart Kojović was now talking about the policy, not to mention the variety where 18 million people in Yugoslavia were vaccinated, all and fortunately the variety was eradicated. There were speeches, say, about vaccines for children, from some of the children's infectious diseases, that if it doesn't split 90%, 95% of the population concerned that it's possible to get sick, then we didn't do anything against the occurrence of an epidemic, which we do. Of course it happens with those vaccines on a regular basis. [[The speaker is 61 alerted on time]] If that didn't happen, I'm sure someone responsible will follow this situation and not stop at only 20% and ask us not to compete in which party, which party, problem and virus does not know the borders in the world, let alone within BiH. She insulted me very much by her statement by Mrs. Anđelka, who should coordinate, yes, it is said so, from the ministry for, now I don't know which ministry, but it doesn't matter, but for civil affairs she did, she said like this – that we are a complex state, that we are not like other countries and that we have to live with it. I don't want to get used to it, and I don't want to. And I don't want to get used to that we don't have the right to protect and vaccination. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you and forgive the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9128	Thank you, counsel. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9129	Okay, thank you. I think it's a good thing that we have this point of the agenda, that it's proved right, and I expect that we have it at every House of Representatives session, after all, it's our obligation to make our contribution, and ultimately to correct some incorrect things, false things, and even provocations that come from people who want to bring in something that is completely, completely incorrect. What we have heard from the Chairman's Council of Ministers and what is very important is that we have as a key basis, sufficiently correct legal solutions and correct rules that can end everything in the accelerated process. So the excuse isn't laws, the excuse isn't rules, the excuse can't be institutions, because it can all end within two, three days and end up in accordance with the law. Who's getting the vaccines, that's a key question now, and why didn't he get them in time? Teached by experience from March and April of the month where numerous abuses were made in the procurement of certain things, so various companies, tourist agencies, and I expect that the prosecution will one day give us an answer to who was involved, so they have imported a variety of medical stuff for two, three million converting marks, through certain institutes of health and funds, without ever coming to their final distance. And that's why it's important for us to feel here that there's a lot of anxiety right now, because under the public eye, there's something that's important to people's lives. It's about vaccines, to know how much they cost, to know who makes them, it can't happen that the vaccine buys 50 dollars, which would probably be if it wasn't, that there aren't all these parameters that we live with in this global world. If we'd known that before, we probably wouldn't have been respirators by 150,000 marks, so maybe the reason behind the delay is in those facts, what all the parameters are known and there's no more fog, no more fraud, no more lies, everything is known. From my point of view, how I've now experienced and seen what the chairman of the Council of Ministers has said, and it's a good thing that he came here, I want to thank you for saying that it's a good thing, that it's a good thing, that I want to commend, that it's not just to be critical, that we've taken the time to talk about this. There's a part of the vaccine coming through the Kovaks program and where the supplier, as far as I understand it, is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, who, as far as I understand it, was supposed to call or call a tender to provide a wholesaler with a bill to introduce these vaccines from the Kovaks program. It's not a good thing it's not over yet, but 62 is that if that wholesaler was done, he'd already have a license and it'd be all paperwork ready if he could get those vaccines ready to come. It's a kind of procurement that we can still see on some long stick. On the other hand, we have purchases that have worked, logically, entities, cantons and other levels of government in accordance with the law, through intervention imports and each of them should find its own wholesaler, wholesaler, wholesaler, I don't know, which, in accordance with the law, will introduce these vaccines for the needs of Republika Srpska, the Federation, a certain canton, etc. etc. And that process has not come to an end, the key question is – has any, any vaccine officially entered, released what is on customs, entered Republika Srpska or BiH? It's not. As far as I know, there was information in the public, the media found out, yet none, no official request came to the Sleeping Medicines Agency, according to some people, which is not true for those people who work there, who have no connections, who have worked there for 20 years, no official request came to the Agency, which is the problem, because this is the point where we can measure how capable the institution is and will allow the registration to be done within 48 hours, the intervention imports in accordance with all the rules and laws. Just allow me, I'm done. I think that we are well behind and that, where lucky for this debate to have been before, to surely speed up the process, shake people up, awakened the institutions in charge of obtaining vaccines to take this whole process seriously and to deal with something where, in time, some countries have been very successful, the best example is Serbia, which has already vaccinated and introduced almost half a million of its citizens into the process of immunisation, because they started doing their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9130	Correction of the wrong allegation, representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9131	Thank you, Chairman. Here is Mr. Borenović very, perhaps unconsciously, but he said some words to which I ask you to refrain, unless you intend to really bring unrest into the population. You guys, when you're connecting and talking about this sensitive process that, so nicely said colleague of the Mladina, a colleague who has an amazing, long-term experience of what vaccination means, what did she say a lot, and you, when you bring into this process the words of a type of fog and fraud, let me say that at this point, you're destructive. Whatever your intentions are, and we, I feel obliged to warn you. Next thing I know, there's a lot of talk going on around here, and a little who seems to me, if he read the act, a license to register can be submitted by a manufacturer, not by a wholesaler, but by a manufacturer. What kind of producers, now you see that we have four at global level, right now someone will come from those four producers and ask for permission from the BiH Medicines Agency. What's good for the whole story, we're not late, and don't even make a mistake, it's agreed through the Kovaks first quarter program, we're still, as we are, we're going to come, hopefully, here, in February. But no one can say precisely at this point, they can't globally. There are bright examples of countries like Israel, meaning either some other and Serbia, here, but this is the result of a different concept of government, current positions and geopoliticals and whatnot. And I would also like to say that, this very important thing, that there are a few more options through the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as in Article 66, if I am not mistaken, which will be implemented for the first time in this process, for which it will be for the first time and reached, when we import vaccines through the Kovaks system, which is that it will reach for Article 7 of this Law, Article 66(7) of this Act and that the Agency will approve imports of medicines, although they are not, after that previously prescribed authorisation to be placed on the market, but since they are necessary for prevention, or for what we are talking about, which is what we all aim to prevent the spread and the result of 63 coves of infection. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to refrain from hard words and under-quality information when you're talking about this very important topic. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9132	We're going back to the debates, co-chairman, colleague Zvizdić, here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9133	Thank you very much. We welcome all present, so we are witnessing that all the countries in our region, the Western Balkans region, have become aware that the Kovaks instrument will not be enough to obtain vaccines for their citizens and are headed for direct or bilateral procurement of vaccines and is practically 3 today. December(?) and we are the only country in the Western Balkans, and I do not want to compare myself with the EU countries, which have another vaccine procurement system, in which vaccination has not started, in which no citizen or any of the priority groups that need to be vaccinated have been vaccinated. Therefore, given the fact that BiH is as a state subject to international law and that only BiH as a state can appear as a negotiator with external entities, I would really like to ask my esteemed colleague and the esteemed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to use its full authority to take advantage of the powers of the Council of Ministers and to start or enter into the negotiation of the procurement of vaccines with the companies that produce the vaccine, which, for example, are approved in this case by the European Medicines Agency, which gives full, full guarantees on the quality and performance of these vaccines, because such an agreement that would be made by the Council of Ministers directly with the vaccine manufacturers would have the power of an international contract which would be approved by the Council of Ministers, which would be approved by the BiH Presidency and ratified at Parliament of BiH, which would be sufficient framework for the rapid, efficient, safe and favourable provision of vaccines. If someone is now saying that such an international agreement takes a certain time, then I want to remind you that we are the first information that the Kovaks instrument will not be enough to have nearly 60 days ago, and let's just say that my initiative was practically adopted about 35 or 40 days ago, during this period we had this empty walk. Therefore, I would really ask the Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers to take advantage of all the capacities and competencies of the Council of Ministers, of course in co-operation with the entity governments and the Brcko District Health Department, to move into this kind of negotiation or bilateral agreement with countries which at the moment can borrow part of the vaccine, which will be sufficient to vaccinate all medical workers in BiH and start vaccination categories such as chronic patients or third-age people. We have good examples in the region, part of the vaccine, for example, Albania received from Poland, Northern Macedonia received from Bulgaria, so it is bilateral negotiations where we have no problems with the legal legislation or the legislative framework that we have in BiH. Why do I find it extremely important that the BiH Council of Ministers appears at the head of these processes as a leader? So precisely because of the timelyness, parallelity and simultaneous vaccination in the entire BiH area. So, I am not an advocate of the separation procurement, there is one dimension of the danger from which MP Kojović spoke, what if one part of BiH is vaccinated, and the other part is not, how long it will take to eliminate the effect of that vaccination because some other part is not vaccinated. I may go a little further, for me it is a much greater risk of the separatist procurement that cantons and entities have entered, and that, in my opinion, given the intention that BiH is constantly trying to show itself as a non-functional, without the simultaneousity and parallelity of the vaccination of medical workers and priority categories, we can come into a situation that inside BiH shows up a homage of a pass. So it won't be allowed for the residents of one canton 64 to move to another canton just because the inhabitants of that second canton are vaccinated, and this one isn't. After all, we testified at the beginning of the pandemic, that one of the cantons did a similar thing when he wanted to ban the arrival of BiH citizens in the canton that had the vaccine. Therefore, we have two dimensions of danger, one of which is that the European countries have already begun to adopt laws on laying down passports and citizens of BiH who are not vaccinated will not be able to travel to the EU, which will completely discourage our visa-free regime, our, the travel of our citizens, the free travel to EU countries and other countries, and there is also a huge danger that someone will start to think about a set of passes within BiH, and that is why I do not believe that the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers must be at the head of these processes and vaccines must not be obtained separally. There's no need for someone to give us a thousand or 500 vaccines, etc. If someone wants a bilateral agreement from EU countries, then they'll give us 300,000 vaccines right now and we'll vaccinate all medical workers and all chronic patients. There's no need for someone to give us a thousand or two thousand vaccines on the drop, because it would take us 20 years under that vaccination system. Therefore, I call once again on my esteemed and esteemed colleague to really take advantage of the powers of the Council of Ministers, to enter into or into a bilateral agreement with the countries. to give or to go into negotiations, to negotiate directly with those who produce vaccines, because it will have the status of an international contract that will ratify this Parliament and will have no danger that we have talked about in the purchase of any other medical equipment. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9134	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9135	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Well, let's not forget about all these very professional topics, not to mention jurisdiction, I just have to point out that the competences of the common level and the entities are very clear and accurate in the field of health. The chairman played a constant co-ordination role with entities and Brcko district, this is not a government and what individuals are talking about could be spoken in the Federal Parliament or the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly. Ask the best canton what it is, what they did and had a vaccine or maybe all of you will come to Republika Srpska to vaccinate, because we have them. Chairman of Zoran Tegelti, it is extremely responsible and in accordance with the law and the Constitution of defined powers, the fact that Republika Srpska is state-of-the-art and operates is our pride, but also the complex of you individuals, who are constantly speaking while I am exhibiting, but certainly does not justify your incorrect attacks on Zoran Tegelti. The opposition in the time of a crisis, in this case global health in the public, does not work out, needs to be like this, and then they come home and they say it's a good thing that we're not in a position to decide and make decisions, because crisis management is something the opposition doesn't understand and that's why the opposition is. I also want to point out that all these attacks are quite populist and incorrect when it comes to the Council of Ministers, specifically Mr. Zoran Tegeltija. You individuals who say that we are not a complicated state and that BiH should not be represented as it is, you are in fact aware that the silences that this BiH is just as complicated, dysfunctional and I will dare say, we are an extremely, extremely bad marriage that someone is trying to preserve and it is only a matter of days when a divorce will take place. 65 And in the end I will ask you, Mrs. Krišto, at one of the corrections of the false quote, you and Mr. Zvizdić spoke, while Branislav Borenović was yelling, shouting that all this hall was echoing, because these speakers are good, I hear well, if he does not hear well, here we have a doctor otorinolaringologist, he may also be able to look at it, I ask you to take care of it, because I really don't want to suffer some kind of psychic violence with that groaning and screaming, because I don't see the need to yell so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9136	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9137	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. I really didn't mean to take your word for it, but I'd like to point out our responsibility here. The Club of Representatives of the DF has proposed a complete Law on Public Procurement, a new Law on Public Procurement, which would make it easier and easier for our citizens to get vaccines, whether they're Russian, Turkish or Chinese or European, regardless of the legitimate fear that there might be a push, a blowout, so that maybe they can stay in the wrong eyes, you tell your father more, so this is really more, uh, amazing to listen to at all. Where is our responsibility in all this as a legislative body? kolega. Stevandić proposed one conclusion last time, obviously we have a problem with the normative,...that we haven't changed that. We have laws that are unarranged, we have a prosecutor's office that has selective jurisdiction, by the Federation arrests everyone, in Republika Srpska by drivers, trucks, planes, no procedures, maltenes on the same basis at the same time. I don't share BiH, neither BiH citizens nor entities, nor ethnicity, I don't think this is a bad marriage, Bog forbid, in the best of marriages there are misunderstandings, what kind of marriage it is if someone doesn't even fight from time to time, and eventually whoever fights it is. I apologize for bringing a dose of unseriousness into such a serious subject, but I think first, that one, we often pass on the subject, on such serious matters. Then there are responsibilities, I agree, executive authorities and how, but where is our responsibility, so we're not doorkeepers here or people who work in the parking lot, so we're supposed to create a normative framework, to clearly determine things. Someone may say that I use too many words, but by maintaining such a normative state, there is a possibility that someone is also creating an ambience to achieve and certain types of profit in BiH, it is obvious that vaccines are something to trade in next year and very profitable, precisely by inserting a mediator into the whole story. I really don't want to take any further time, I apologize if I've put a dose of indifference into such a serious subject, but it's only for the purpose of powering our own responsibility, where our responsibility in all of this is as a legislator, as someone who needs to prepare legal acts, to change what is not good, to define what is not defined, that people who want to do how they should be able to do it, and that without fear that they will come into some breach, we are all deeply aware that there are standards that do not best specify the procedures that need to be carried out, we know very well, all of us here. At the end of the last time, we also had an initiative with regard to the fact that you can think that Parliament confirms that someone applies a legal provision, that, therefore, Parliament is behind the law, because that legal provision is what it is. And why are we running away from changing laws, making laws, creating ambience, this time it's about the health of our citizens. Once again I am withdrawing our responsibility and potential for our responsibility, this is our joint house and we simply have to edit it, this time it's a matter of health, it's a matter of lives, I am no expert in medicine, and I like to listen to 66 others when they talk about it, but when it comes to normative and how there is space for our more proactive and responsible role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9138	Thank you. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9139	Thank you, Chairman. I will speak with the mask, last week was a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, members of our delegation had the opportunity to follow that session, chairing the Parliamentary Assembly did not allow anyone throughout the four-day session to take off the mask and when they speak and when they sit in the hall, the hall is much larger than this, probably the measures implemented in BiH territory are not as strict as in Europe and I don't know if it's good. I seek to abide by the laws and regulations of this country and I will refer to what the honourable MP Sanja Vulić said, she said the Council of Ministers is not the BiH government. I would only ask her to tell me where she read it, does it say in the Constitution of BiH, and where it says that the Council of Ministers has a co-ordinated role? Where does it say that the government of this country has a co-ordinated role? I've never read it anywhere in all the years from Dejton to this day. The second thing, she said that Republika Srpska is state-of-the-art and that they are very effective, including in this segment regarding the purchase of vaccines. What does a state-of-the-art mean? It's creating a state. It is true that they are trying to make 49% of BiH territory their country and it is true that they are laying down regulations that usurp the jurisdiction of the BiH state until now, all these 25 years, someone has been successfully fighting it and challenging it and the regulations before the BiH Constitutional Court and thank Bog that such an institution exists at BiH level. And it is true that they are making their regulations in accordance with the regulations of their neighbouring state, and it is true that they have probably goals that they want to achieve, and it is true that they do not like this state MPs from Republika Srpska, because just before Mr. Begić spoke about marriage and love in marriage, I looked at her face, how she reacted, and that's true. It's true that Dušanka Majkić says [[the speaker is warned on time]] That she doesn't have, she doesn't feel anything for this country, and that's why she doesn't see at all the purpose of this country's anthem having text. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So laugh only, but you are younger than the child I gave birth to, and it is many more years to learn some things, and it is a miracle to sit with that age and with such behavior in the highest legislative body of this land, just laugh. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9140	Thank you. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9141	Dear Mrs. Čolo, I promise you, I ask you not to speak for us from Republika Srpska with them, because we are not them, if you are to us, if you address us with them, they are in another country, and we are to each other here you are. If you put the context in that six 67 times you have told them and if this whole story where we are, as I say, getting close to the problem, use it now to turn it to the target of Mrs. Sanja Vulić, so consider that the sovereignty is formed and BiH is formed by entities, and that is not the subject, ma'am, the theme is that someone of yours, ours, is gone. They are something that will sow a new dissension, when you sow dissension on people, when within the state you consider BiH you call us from Republika Srpska they don't contribute to anything that has anything to do with BiH and it is our right to believe that BiH consists of entities, that entities do, not that BiH makes entities. I also appreciate that you think completely differently, but it has nothing to do with the vaccines and why you're now switching this topic at once, here I think we're getting a little closer and I'm not good at it, that we've touched something a little bit. I will also Iskoristić this to tell Mr. Zvizdić, Magazinović talked about the law, so even BiH and the Presidency will conclude an interstate deal through wholesalerry, the presidency will not be able to be an importer. It's got to change the law, and we need to be ready to replace it, change it in 24 hours. It's got to change the rules to adjust, not wait, I don't know, on the distribution papers, etc. It must be found which EU certification is immediately respected that... we don't have a better lab than Hungary. So there's a lot of things we started talking about and where we could meet. If you tell us what they say, but we gentlemen will turn around, we will be them, and we will vaccinate ourselves, and we will care. And I don't care about any man who's supposed to get the vaccine, I don't think it's worth injecting Banja Luka, if it's not Vaccinated Bihać and I'm saying it for the best of all, and why you call us those, which is the reason, it's an insult to me and it has nothing to do with the vaccines.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9142	Thank you, counsel. Correction of the wrong alleged representative Nenad Nešić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9143	It's not clear to me either, Mrs. Čolo, that this is a matter of vaccines, that we consider this a bad marriage from Republika Srpska, that's our right, and I didn't see anywhere that the Council of Ministers is government, I'd like you to point out where it says the Council of Ministers is government. We believe it is a common institution and we believe that BiH forms two entities and I believe that if you attack Sanja Vulić because she loves Republika Srpska, then you attack all of us here from Republika Srpska. Whether Sanja is Borenović, whether he is Stevandić, we are from the RS and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9144	Thank you, Agent Nešić. Correction of the wrong allegation, representative Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9145	Thank you, Mrs. Čolo, for God's sake, Mrs. Krišto. And when it comes to Mrs. Čolo's remarks, otherwise an excellent lawyer, what I was talking about about is a co-ordination role, it's nice to write to you in Article V of point 4 of the Constitution. Then, not to read now, not to quote, because I don't have much time, then I want to tell you, that all the powers, also in the Constitution, all the powers which are not explicitly given to BiH institutions belong to 68 entities. BiH-level executive power, presidency, the Council of Ministers is the presidency's auxiliary body. I expected you to know as someone who boasts that he's a great lawman and someone who, uh, is still frustrated and angry with his colleagues from the U.S.A. for not becoming a member of the CEC when you were already planning. As for all your remarks that what I say to RS is sovereign, that it is in many situations and in many important and crucial life issues we have shown that we know the answer to many questions important and important to our citizens. I'm sorry this BiH can't work. And you know why it can't work? Because you in the Federation, those you represent in the Federation, you are not capable of it, you did not form power in 2018, you know it well, and regardless of what you did, we went to the selection of new CEC members. Also, Mrs. Čolo this frustration of yours, that bitterness of yours to the existence and functioning of Republika Srpska leads us to this kind of discussion. I don't know what, about the anthem we'll talk about, there's time, I don't know what your need for you to keep imposing the thesis that something is bothering you about our attitude and our love for Republika Srpska. Yes, I love her very much, and I am proud of her, and I will always fight for BiH that is in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that absolutely implies everything, all the rights of the Republika Srpska to which you are constantly trying to take away our rights. And I'll just say about my colleague Begić, so it doesn't get misunderstood. I hope it was just a joke, because it turns out that you support Begić in marriage, and I know it's not like that and you're not that kind of personality profile.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9146	I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but before these corrections of the wrong allegation were in any way contrary, Mrs Čolo, since she was also a lawyer and called for acts and respect, we have the Code of Conduct of Representatives/Employers of the Parliamentary Assembly, which, within the framework of ethical principles and rules, states in Article 5 that MPs/legislators are obliged to act without prejudice and discrimination regarding race, religion, sex, national decay and life. So I don't think there are words that he gave birth to or comparison to. And after that, as for the correction of the wrong quote, a colleague also went beyond these. So here I apologize, but let me warn you that we can all say together in a more appropriate way by respecting our rules, procedures, by expressing our position in a democratic way, and by democratic means and by respecting procedures. Here, I hope we are, that here in the future we will remove these things, but. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9147	Thank you. Article 77 of respect for the agenda, so this is clearly about non-compliance with the agenda, the point of the vaccine, the purchase of vaccines, etc. And this discussion went much, much further than that. However, I think it's very good that the next four appointment points are, and at these points we'll see how the coalition works perfectly when the positions are shared and the chairs are filled, and that this is essentially just a little bit of public play. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9148	Yes, Agent, you, uh, we didn't step away from the agenda, so the point is that, but through the views in the debates, the corrections of the wrong quote referred to the allegations that they were, of course, they deviated from the debate itself, this is, I've done everything to correct, to correct, so that in some way we're all counting in the future, not giving lessons to others. Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted, or I'm closing the debate on item 19. We're crossing __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9151	Thank you very much. Of course, I'll try not to be at all personal to anyone who spoke here, although many did. I'm going to try to answer some of these questions, to explain one, this situation in terms of sending a message to the public when it comes to vaccinations, that this is what we're talking about today... is more political debate than the essence of getting the vaccine... we're meeting. I'll počeću with this last one, perhaps, not the last but the last, discussion of Mr. Zvizdić and the deal, trying to make bilateral agreements with the states on the delivery of vaccines. Unfortunately, it's not possible, it's not possible, but we have to admit that the delivery through Kovaks is almost done by means of an interstate agreement of several countries to deliver, and it's going to go quite easily and quite quickly. That the agreement with the EU is a kind of international agreement, which, of course, is not subject to ratification and that. However, delivery of vaccines that, at this point in time, some countries have achieved a major vaccination due to these vaccines is vaccines coming from the east, from Russia, from China. There producers do not sell vaccines, they do not have the authority to deliver these vaccines to the international market, so that the Russian vaccine sells the Russian direct investment fund, that the Chinese company, the delivery of Chinese vaccines to the international market, the company has its own partner in each of these countries, the company has its presentation in BiH, has made contact with it. We have made very clear and trying through the embassy to make bilateral arrangements and we have been told that we cannot make bilateral agreements because for the sale of vaccines outside their countries is not in charge of the auction and of course we would be much, much happier if we could go through this system of bilateral agreements with countries and get these vaccines. It's clear to us that you've seen where the Chinese vaccine ended up in mid-20 days, in four countries alone, in four countries 70 of these relatively small countries received a million vaccines. But I am sure that through this way of arrangement, where BiH performs uniquely with the necessary amounts for these vaccines, we will reach these vaccines and beyond the Kovaks system, although some of them will also appear in the Kovaks system. I'm not a man who deals, tries to deny anything in BiH, shows it dysfunctional and unnecessary, and indeed Mr. Kojović can use it politically as much as you want, I'm a man who and what he's purposely trying to do functionally. Every time I go to work, I leave the BiH Constitution and the jurisdiction of all institutions and no one will touch my authority, nor will I touch anyone I take to BiH, especially not in the supply of vaccines. I think that every vaccine we get, ten of these vaccines, we have to divide them into BiH, and we can't behave as separate as to vaccinate one entity or the other or God Bog one canton and a municipality and something like that. Why do I trust the institutions, why I don't have as much division as here as we've heard in Parliament. Well, once a sender's name is perfect, and the other one's got nothing wrong with it and vice versa. We gathered in one place, we invited representatives of all institutions and passed on operational obligations, operational obligations are to the Federation Minister of Health, Minister of Health of Republika Srpska,... The Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Medicines Agency, and if we want to quote these members of the law, quoted by Mr. Magazinović, some of you, then we should have told you to look for this information and to write on the basis of which members of the medicines agency will do, verify and vaccines that enter BiH, who will import them and so on. I really don't want to, I really don't want to be part of that story about whether one notification is more successful and the other, depending on whether it's being run by someone who's a member of one or another political party. The Mladina woman said that she understood that I said that 20% of the citizens wanted to vaccinate. Not we have agreed vaccines for 40% of BiH citizens, our goal by the end of the third quarter is to offer vaccines for at least 60% of the population. The complex BiH state is, but it is neither an excuse nor an excuse for not being vaccinated by all those who want to, those who want to. I ask you to understand that everything we have done since the process of obtaining the vaccine through the Kovaks system, through the EU system, we have done with full confidence from these institutions, and we believe that this is the best and safest system of procurement and from the point of view of the price issue and from the point of view of the supply chain, that no counterfeit vaccines appear and so on. And I guess we all know that the country that went biggest in the vaccination process said that it paid its vaccines twice as much as the market prices of those vaccines. Is someone in BiH willing to think of something like that, not at the moment? There was an offer, what Mr. Zvizdić was talking about, about individual offers for the supply of vaccines. For example, two EU countries have offered small, really small amounts of vaccines, one has offered five thousand, one has offered three thousand vaccines, indeed they are, indeed, ridiculously small amounts to get us into this vaccination process and we have not accepted it. As the vaccine plan for BiH now stands, close to 300,000 doses of vaccines should come by the end of this month, close to 300,000. It is if we take that, for every citizen to be two doses, it is almost 150 thousand BiH residents. We have just over 40,000 healthcare professionals, which means that all healthcare professionals will be vaccinated when that first dose comes to the phasers and AstraZenek vaccines. If you're asking me if I'm disappointed with this system of procurement through Kovaks and through the EU, I can't say I'm disappointed, but I am sad. I'm sad about the fact, I think the whole world shares that fact today, because some of the vaccines are trying to make goods available to individuals, not what was the goal at the beginning of the vaccine is generally good for the whole society. I really believe that those who think it's a good thing and that we're going to get all these contracted and paid vaccines. 71 I ask you to understand, that the problem of obtaining vaccines and importing vaccines is not laws, and that the problem of vaccines is not money, we have that money at both levels of government, simply at this point because of the selfishness of individual countries in the world of vaccines just don't have enough on the market. I am one of those who believes in an agreement with the EU and who believes in a deal with the global Kovaks system for the supply of vaccines, we will see by the end of the month, only if it is not, whether this will be respected for us. We belong, we are in that position that many of you, I know you're in private business, you know that sometimes you have to pay the goods, pay, but you didn't get the goods from the delivery company, but we didn't pay the goods to any private company, not on any Virgin Islands, nothing at all, we ended up with the EU, and we ended up with the global system, and that's why I don't think we've been wrong to opt for this kind of vaccine procurement system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9152	Thank you to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija. We're going to the 20th agenda, Ad. 20. Appointment of members of the BiH Public Broadcasting System Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, applicant for the candidate ranking: BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-99/21 of 7. 1. 2021. The BiH Communications Regulatory Agency has submitted a candidate ranking, the House College has designated the Committee for Transport and Communications as responsible for examining this material. For members of the BHRT Management Board from the Bosniak people, it is proposed: Elvir Lemeš, Emir Habul and Džemal Rošić. For members of the Management Board of BHRT from the Croatian people, Valentina Rupčić was proposed. For members of the BHRT Management Board from the Serbian people are proposed: Aleksandar Bogdanić, Miloš Šolaja, Vuk Vučetić, Sanja Blagojević, Vedran Škoro, Biljana Milošević-Šošo-Schoso, Srđan Šuput and Olijana Lukić, Miloš Jokić and Dejan Kerleta. The Committee for Transport and Communications took note of the ranking and referred them to a further parliamentary procedure. The proposal from the House College to be appointed to the Management Board of BHRT: Sanja Blagojević, Elvir Lemeš and Valentina Rupčić. I'm opening a debate on a bill-list proposal. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Report on the establishment of a candidate-list proposal for the selection of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-16-161-5,1/21 of 21. 1. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9156	I, as an agent in this House, received information, and with you in the College, checked that one of the candidates for the appointment of members of the Board of Appeals is a civil prosecutor at the same time in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Not entering, so I don't know the man personally, but I really don't understand the intention of someone who performs such a function as to sign up to be next to the prosecutor's office, is he, in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and a member of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens. I don't know if there were any restrictive circumstances for this kind of candidacy, but I do know that there is a Code of Prosecution Ethics, which among other things says that the prosecutor can't be a member of an organisation associated with law enforcement agencies, including committees and committees for selection and appointment, committees for the resolution of police officers, police committees, and civil complaints committees for police work. 73 A very unusual situation, if this is true, I believe that you had no limiting factor in your work for anyone to be appointed, but you will admit it is very unusual for the prosecutor from the BiH Prosecutor's Office to be a member of the Citizens' Appeals Committee on the Work of the Police, bearing this fence in mind. Now, I'd like you as the people who worked on this proposal that's ahead of us to comment on this, to comment again, I don't know the man at all, but if this is all like this and if this isn't about a person who might have the same name and last name, and he's doing something else, then I guess he needs some comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9157	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9158	Thank you. Here, as I said, the appointments started, and suddenly there are no national disputes, now the division of the prey. Now let's see who this is, there's a lot of names here, two of these committees. I ask, are they the same people, here as Magazinović asked, is this the same Enes Obralija that was fourth in the state in 2015 at the level of commission fees? It's the last year before my law, which is a limited commission fee on 475 marks a month, is that the same Enes, recordr, Obralija? And why is he proposed for the chairman of this committee, even though this Mujakić is much better points and they are both from the same people? So what are the criteria used there? We go further down this list, is this the same Vjekoslav Vuković, who has been wrongly convicted in Rijeka in the Republic of Croatia for the crime of terrorism and whose trial has never been completed because he was inaccessible to the authorities of the Republic of Croatia? Can anyone answer whether this is still unreachable to the borders of the Republic of Croatia and whether this future member of this Committee will be able to go to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the conference, if held on police officers, etc.? Mr., colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, spoke very much of Vjekoslav Vuković and in this House among other things, I am very interested in whether he will raise his hand today for this appointment. Further down the list, counterpart Magazinović has already mentioned Mr Janjić, whether this is the same Miroslav Janjić, prosecutor, whose Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office told the force because of, I quote - neglecting the performance of the duty, and conduct that damages the reputation of the prosecutor's office, a closed quote. Because of, among other things, nationalist statements of extreme nature. The SDA then condemned it, whether it's going to vote for this today or if it's all like this again, is that, this show for the public, and when you need a chair... then your hands get up. There are no confusions on this list and professional, honorable and professional people, such as Boris Buha or Šenderović Schenderovic, but these few names can not fix all of these problems and others I did not, but all of them I pointed out and there are others. Thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9159	No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Branislav Borenović, you later called, I apologize, but we closed the debate. Moving to point 23. Ad. 23. Proposal for a Decision on the Council of National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, issue: 01,02,03/6-39-1-178/21 of 21. 1. 2021. The Joint Committee on Human Rights has submitted the above-mentioned Proposal for a Decision, the proposal for a decision has been made. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point 24. Ad. 24. Proposal for a conclusion of the MPs: Branislav Borenović, Nenad Nešić and Dragan Mektić, who reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver within 15 days detailed information to the House on the Decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH, activities that the Council of Ministers has taken to ensure that there is no plan of action to fulfil BiH's obligations to remove the grounds for imposing sanctions", number: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9166	Thank you, Mrs. Borjan. Well, I expected the promoters to say something more, but since they're not, here are a few questions, since we're considering the initiative in question, they'd ask them -- do they think BiH is a sovereign and politically independent state? referisati to the preamble of the Constitution, defined for sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH. I'm asking that for reasons compared to the answer they're about to give. Because is it normal for one home to discuss the presidency of another home and of, and to ask another state for something about it, when, as you have imagined, is it sovereignty and integrity, political independence, is it BiH, which is a democratic state, which operates on the principle of rule of law and on the basis of free and democratic elections? Here they are intruding, in fact trying to bring in BiH institutions, or ministries to blaspheme themselves by sending letters to the State Department about their citizen and the chairman of the House of People, and by acting under BiH's law, they can just reject something like that as obviously unfounded and inappropriate. Also, I ask colleagues who are proposing – do they interfere with the foreign policy of BiH and the United States when it is in the sole constitutional jurisdiction of the Presidency, which Mr Arnaut, I am sure, knows why this House is burdened and burdened with initiatives that I am sure you know for sure that the performance and entertainment are only for a part of the public and are legally and diplomatically questionable? Next, you say - diplomatic and Durgian suitable channels, to look for information, sanctions, whatever. What are the other appropriate channels, that you didn't clearly define, that they weren't possibly intelligence channels, what did you mean by that, that you didn't write or knowingly didn't write? In the previous assembly of this House, Mr Nikola Špirić was an MP and this MP to the opposition in the joint institutions – what can the MP of the opposition affect, interfere and what benefit can he achieve? Here's because you're saying that you're in opposition, Mr. Arnaut, I'm very interested in what you can use as a club, to take advantage of yourself, here's a real pleasure to compare your property records from this year and next, and I'm very interested in how this opposition can be used and in what way when it doesn't manage anything. You would now be discussing a senior BiH official here in BiH institutions based on unverified, unconfirmed information and other countries, regardless of which state and which official, you would only want to discuss it. I also want to say, the State Department, which is an institution for itself of a large and powerful administration, has too much of its obligations, and even though you look forward to this Beyden administration, I think they have so much work to do in their country that they won't even have a chance to deal with your writings, reports of a deep state, which unfortunately the current administration didn't have enough time to deal with. 77 I propose to the conscious MPs of the House of Representatives to reject this initiative, to preserve the integrity of the Parliamentary Assembly and BiH officials and the debate in this House, and not to allow us to have the agenda in addition to so many important issues from the authority of BiH institutions occupy the opposition senseless initiatives that violate the integrity of the BiH Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9167	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9168	Thank you. So something like this needs to happen to talk about the integrity of the state, the statehood, the pride and everything else. So this is actually a sign to the promoters that these things are more often suggested and then we hear colleague Vulić in the second edition. I asked a question in September 2018 to the state prosecutor – whether it was on its own or through other bh. The institution asked the US State Department for information and possible evidence that Špirić as a member of the SNSD participated in public corruption, including acceptance used in exchange for public duties and involvement in public processes during his term as a member of the House of Representatives, why was he sanctioned by the United States along with the members of the rope family? So this is a quote about how it was in the press release at the time. So, in 2018 I did not get an answer, in 2019 I reiterated the question, with an explanation and quote from the US Embassy Public Relations Office, where it is said that it is important that the authorities and the public be aware of how seriously the United States takes the problems of public corruption and the involvement of Mr Špirić in corruption activities, so these are all quotes, I did not get the answer. On July 21st, I didn't get an answer from Mrs. Gordana Tadić. I understand from what I understand that the D.A.'s office is not showing any interest in obtaining any information to make it work. But one more question opens up to me here, and I think this should be adopted and information needs to be sought out, and no matter who it is, therefore, everything and that a man is innocent we need to know there's nothing there, if he's guilty, we need to know he's guilty and why. Maybe people have some evidence that our institutions are not able to collect for various reasons and I don't think this should apply to Mr Špirić, but to each and every one of us in this country, anyone who has any knowledge needs to deliver it to the prosecution, and it's no small thing that the U.S. Department of State claims. Now, what I'm asking as a question is, I understand, Mr Špirić is a senior official of BiH institutions for many years, but if the promoter would agree, I would like to extend this initiative to all those on the American blacklist, to get information about everyone, because it is not only Mr Špirić, there are very many people. And if, as Mrs. Sanja Vulić, the State Department finds little time for us to answer, and maybe finds, and you're surprised, it would be good to get information about all persons and if there is a basis of doubt and evidence to show that judicial institutions are doing their job, if this is for some other reason people are blacklisted, it's U.S. relation to them and what they're doing, if there are no elements of a crime, but in this particular case, at least what the US Embassy said at the time, it's possible that there's something. That's why I'm supporting this initiative, but I'm asking you as a proposing to make a correction that this applies to all people and that we're looking for information for everyone. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9169	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9170	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I would also like to refer to Mr. Saša Magazinović and try to call this initiative the name she is, so that we might draw a good conclusion or a good result from it. Noting that, here, according to the data that was available to me at the moment, on that American so-called. The blacklist has 110 people from BiH and five legal entities, meaning 110 natural and five legal persons, and they got there in a way that, uh, I have to admit that I'm a huge fan of the regulated systems and consistent, the United States as one, is someone I'd say the strongest or the strongest or the like, but definitely the most orderly and strongest countries in the world and in line with their foreign policy, and especially the security interests forming and modifying from time to time that list. On that list here and we found ours, we can say, colleague, and since the initiators, that is, the applicants of this initiative from these 110 people and five legal persons, have drawn that name only, I, on behalf of the SNSD Club, declare it a political heifer, because it is. Whether someone has or has not been in some of the actions that are incriminating or such or such, none of us can determine it, but perhaps determine in the appropriate process a judicial authority. So, an initiative like this should be called what it is, so it's political persecution. Keeping in mind that, again, this list is formed in accordance with foreign security interests and that, again, I say, there are members of tourist organisations etc. Interestingly, here, maybe for us all to say I found the information that at one point on that list was Zdravko Čolić, for example, don't exactly hold my word, the information is from the Internet, I don't want this, this statement that I'm banalizing, I really want to say that if someone wants to be consistent and to be really, uh, yeah, here I'm saying, that it's spreading, so here's to say and legitimize that initiative, I should at least be more consistent with the values that here declares or teaches us, etc. So, as far as the SNSD is concerned, we don't have, to say on condition, anything against, because we're trying, but on the condition that someone really speaks on behalf of this, is it, the country that is responsible for this, to request information, I draw your attention that we have an entire organization, a political organization and all kinds of others on that list. Uh, please really once again, here's to asking, even if you ever get that kind of information, I would ask that this Parliament at least in one part refrain from this path that we all, unfortunately, have often talked about, is being converted into a courtroom, turns into a minor operating room, except that we haven't started turning into investigative bodies, into judicial institutions, etc. If ever up to this information this way, though I think it's questionable this time, and she said something about it by colleague Sanja, questionable, legal, etc. I don't want to talk about it right now, but please, let's at least refrain from that part of the verdict or I don't know what, and it seems to me that certain colleagues are in the mood, so that we can, unfortunately, turn into one. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9171	Thank you. MP Alma Čolo, debate, here are the MPs. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9172	As far as I understand from the discussion of my colleague Vulić, she has asked certain questions to the applicants of the initiative, I do not see here that any of the applicants of the initiative have come forward to answer her questions, because probably the applicants of the initiative, including Mr Damir Arnaut, do not want to make a national confrontation, and I have just heard from Mr Damir, who has recently objected to me that this is a national confrontation that I allegedly had with my colleague Vulić, a public show, and that we will agree on the appointment, because there is no confrontation. I don't think it's a national confrontation to discuss the Constitution of this country and discuss the constitutional position of entities in this country. She would refer to what Mr. Nešić said earlier, to prove that this is not a national confrontation, he said BiH forms two entities. It is true in the constitution that BiH consists of two entities and it is not the same when two entities are forming a state, and if it consists of two entities, the state has insisted before two entities exist and, according to the new constitutional arrangement created in Dayton, it consists of two entities. So talking about entities is not a national confrontation, talking about constitutional powers is not a national confrontation, and I am asking MPs from the opposition, who signed this initiative, to answer the questions asked by an esteemed colleague and to get on the ground a little more dangerous than being just an opposition to the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9173	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong allegation, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9174	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Well, I honestly don't understand what my question is, I asked which ones are, as they say, canals and other channels, which are other channels, I'm really interested in. Since Mr. Arnaut is, uh, just like this someone who is of knowledge, but right now it's really not like I'm saying something wrong, I really appreciate most of his discussions, I was expecting as one of the promoters that he would explain it to us nicely and decadently. This, so, and as far as his colleagues Magazinović and his discussions are concerned, it is clear that long-term travels have paid off to him at the expense of this Parliament, because it is obvious that he has good ties in the United States and I respect it, I accept it, but it is a selective and incorrect approach when it comes to BiH citizens, which is definitely Mr Nikola Špirić. And as for these now who will support anything, we will see how you who are from the U.S.A. will support this initiative, you, I may say freely, have criticized Mr. Damir Arnaut, but I'm sure you'll press the key from your own, I don't know which reason not to enter the national rhetoric again, but one thing is certain, what I resent to us, Srbin and these who come and from opposition lines from Republika Srpska, is that we don't have that unity that you here in this House of Bosniaks have. You don't have anything to say to each other and you don't say anything to Mr. Arnaut and Arnaut to you and everyone like this, you're offended by the most terrifying, but when it comes to any of you, you're all for, you're all unique, and that unity actually makes you and this BiH, and we still have what we have. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9175	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alma Čolo, first of all, let me thank you for not calling us them, that's a lot of progress compared to the last discussion. Republika Srpska or entities are an entity within BiH, not an object decided by BiH and signed by all annexes of the Dayton Agreement, as a constitutional constitutional constitutional act and not a decision by the state on entities, but entities and through us directly elected, and regarding respect for the Constitution we decide in the drave and we will agree on it together, and we will not argue or hate because we think otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9177	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kojović, debate. My colleague Čolo already checked in when she did, but here she is, so here's the correction to the wrong quote, and here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9178	So I'd just like to correct Dr. Stevandić's guilty allegations that entities are not the signatories of all annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9179	Representative Predrag Kojović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9180	I thank the chairman. I'd like to take some suggestions from our club, which, if I were to say, is the proposer of this initiative, I'd like to accept these suggestions, this, which we've heard, and that this from one, as I would say, is the individual case turned into one, as I would say, a principled requirement that all people who for some reason are placed on what we call the blacklists, that in some way we have the right as a state to get information on the basis of which such a decision has been made. In that context, here, I don't know if we're looking for a five-minute break to just rephrase this initiative of ours, or do you want to do it before the vote, to the vote, or so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9181	So you should at least give us the rest of the debate on this agenda point. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9182	In this particular case, counterpart Sanja Vulić, it has been said, that the State Department has credible information that Nikola Špirić participated in public corruption, including acceptance of benefits in exchange for public duty and involvement in 81 public processes during his term as a member of the House of Representatives, closed quote. Then the US Embassy Public Relations Office in BiH says it is important that BiH authorities and the public be aware of how seriously the United States takes the problem of public corruption and Mr Špirić's involvement in corrupt activities, etc. appeal to the adoption of laws that prevent corruption, etc. So, in this case, one serious state, the world power, no matter what any of us thinks about them and what kind of person has personal connections with people in institutions, lists pretty serious things. Now, if this initiative remains, I will support it, but I really think and I agree with you, if there are a hundred people, then make sure you reform this to get information for a hundred people, including Mr Špirić. And what you're saying is Zdravko Čolić, I think you've been watching the wrong website on the Internet, but here's to Zdravko Čolić if he was. So, I think it would be good and responsible, especially if you would then support it, it could be the single position of Parliament, or a representative home that would have its echo and quite certainly the result. Yeah, well, there's plenty of colleagues here, so I think maybe someone's going to propose a formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9183	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong allegation, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9184	Thank you, Mrs. Borjan. So she's doing her best to remind the public that there are people working in the Sarajevo-based embassies, as well as in all the other people in the world, who are locals, and that is so, only here is it specific that there are people working in the Sarajevo-based embassies that talk about coffee from the church to Mary's Court, gossip and construction, and unfortunately the antagonism of many of them, not all of them, I stress, according to the representatives of Serbia in Sarajevo. Mr. Pompeo does not sit in Sarajevo and receive reports from here, which were created as well as part of diplomatic and intelligence nature and nothing new, nor disputed, but Mr. Pompeo when he announced what he published, points out that the United States, that in the United States, had received information that they had received, but had not published them, nor explained them in detail, because this information of their services, means without evidence, for decisions in force in the territory of the United States, and that's about it. So if it were, if it weren't for something, if it wasn't for information that comes down to one piece of gossip, if it was valid evidence and so that America would react, and since it's all been made out of, from this charter, from this kitchen, you're talking about contacts here now. I respect all the embassies, I have no problem with any embassy or any representative, but this is a clean construction and tiring this House exclusively with opposition issues. I saglasni with what the club chief suggested, but I also want to point out again that this is not a theme for this House and that this is a waste and a waste.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9185	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9186	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Čolo, I'm not getting into polemics with Mrs. Vulić of this kind, because I'm holding onto myself and I'm sticking to serious issues, so let's get this straight. As for Mr. Magazinović's proposal, uh, it's no problem, I think we've, uh, gestured our hands when you suggested it, that it's acceptable for us, means any addition to whoever offers regarding the American blacklist that we'll accept it. But here we have had a conversation a little bit, it's not common whether, to say the motion puts, amendments to its initiative, but here as a proposer of this club is completely, so open to accept any intervention that will include, is, uh, all the other lists that are on, all the other people on the American blacklist, but in that sense here if you need a break, if you don't need a break, whatever, agree, formulate, mean, the amendment to our conclusion, and we'll be proposing, if you stick to what I've said, means all the other people who are on some American blacklist, we'll accept it. It's just, I say again, I think the practice is in this House, and some basic order that, if someone wants some way... some initiative to offer and not put it on you... Mr. Magazinović, so anyone who wants it, here we are as proposing we're willing to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9187	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9188	So, perhaps the correction, perhaps the addition of what Mr. Magazinović or his colleagues are proposing, I would just ask, so if anyone can answer me if this has everything in the title and what you said to your colleague Magazinović, my follow-up to the conclusion of this sentence, which he says – thus jeopardising or jeopardising American interests and violating the rule of law in BiH. So, is this the full name that stands here in this initiative or does it have this supplement that I'm talking about, I guess I heard this somewhere, I don't have to be right, so that's why he threatened American interests and violated the rule of law in BiH? I don't know if that's it or not, I'd like either of the props to say, maybe since you've been, uh, addressing the D.A.'s office, so you haven't got the answer, maybe even because of this and whether it's like this, or if I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9189	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9190	Thank you. Here, we've heard a few interesting observations that, here, introduces the newspaper into making a decision on this agenda point. I think that since we hear that they have some knowledge that these are simple gossip, bar stories, that they don't stand, I think it's important that we help our colleague Špirić get rid of this and that it's a good thing that we all really support this and that this doesn't change the character of the agenda. I, here, mean I won't be for a change, that we understand each other right away, because if it's true that a non-serious country, which happens to be called the United States, is making such a drastic decision towards a man who has been a member of one of the parliaments for many years and who has shared with many of you this assembly bench. I think that we need to help him, that the sooner we get the information that will essentially help him to keep 83 out of the blacklist, because if this is about some kind of discrimination based on a story in a bar or construction of some local people, I think that this has to end as soon as possible and it has to be resolved. And my suggestion is that you don't make any acrobatics, you can send a new request at the next session, with new construction and words, and I urge you all to vote together to help Mr. Špirić get off the blacklist, because he's been placed there apparently on the basis of some gossip, as we heard here, and apparently there's an administration that's buying this kind of bar talk, which is why we're going to have to do with it. It opens another global dimension, which is very important for these global relations. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9191	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9192	Thank you, Chairman. Article 7 is a part of the work and a member of the 10th right and duties of MPs, therefore, it seems that we have another MP here who does not read, allegedly, the explanation. We have clearly stated what Mr. Lovrinović said, in the case of Mr. Špirić, we believe that his activities have damaged the interests of the US and the citizens of BiH, etc. So again I call upon all the messengers to read and to explain what We have provided with initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9193	This is what you should have done through the corrections of the wrong quote or something, because we didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure in terms of work, this is the second time you've done it consciously, so I warn you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Safet Softić representative, debate, here you go, MP. Just leave your colleague, wait, they'll, uh, turn it on. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9194	I welcome all present, of course, the special working presidency, and I would like to say a few words on this subject, which is on the agenda. In fact, I've been thinking all the time as I listen to these discussions, how and how our citizens feel as they listen to all these discussions, this today is the topic of the agenda and what's on our session's agenda today. If something is important and important for today is what we heard from the Chair of the Council of Ministers about vaccines and one information that was probably insufficient in our public when it comes to this important topic, everything else about the agenda of today's session actually came down to these initiatives in which we conduct long, barren debates, we even touch the Dayton Peace Agreement, we go into some international tensions, which I absolutely do not need this House and our agenda actually comes down to what members of the College at some previous sessions couldn't agree with. Therefore, I would ask, therefore, that if and when the sessions of the homes are scheduled, we have something that, let me say, is tangible and interesting to the public and of course 84 would in some way benefit from all the things that we are discussing here today. I feel, therefore, some kind of frustration over all of this that today as an MP sitting in this House hears, and I say I can only think that citizens feel that all of this through direct transmission is being watched and listened to, uh, as far as this border goes, let's say, a little bit of a different dictionary, a bit of an angry debate, so. We have an initiative that in itself, I really can't figure out what it is, so we're asking America, we're asking the U.S. to provide us with evidence of an official, and here we heard Mr. Saša Magazinović's discussion, who, in my opinion, quite rightly asked – and what about the others on that blacklist? I really think if we're already getting into what's on the agenda today, that the basic condition would be, therefore, that if we're looking for one official, we're asking for all the others, for all those dozens and how many, hundreds of people who are there, to have information, but at the same time I'm almost sure we won't get that kind of information, because it's such a great force for the sake of its needs, and it's not doing us. What would be our obligation as a House and as a Parliament is to call on our investigative bodies, that all of us, including, of course, Nikola Špirić and Safet Softić and anyone here, should be searched every day and see where we are without covering ourselves, therefore, behind this sort of thing. I've come to say, in fact, that we're really wasting a lot of time on, on these, to say, empty things and that I'm willing to support and this initiative, of course, with what Mr. Saša Magazinović has suggested, if we're already asking that we don't make politics out of it, not to make a demagogue out of it, but to ask for all the officials that are there, there are still sound names we'd like to know why they are, uh, on a list like that. Therefore, I will support, of course, if Saša Magazinović's proposal applies to all those on one of these lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9195	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9196	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, fellow Arnaut I've just a little bit, so I've checked that this is unknown to me, so I read it on your, to your observation, to your explanation, but you've given me an answer as to why perhaps the most important part of the explanation was not found in the title of the initiative. So he is, therefore, probably the essence and being and what Mr. Softić was saying, so then you should have put a complete follow-up, that's two, three words, sentences, two, three words actually and then she would have had her full sense and I guess, what Mr. Softić said, hopefully we get that, because that's the thing obviously of the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9197	Thank you. No more reports, we're closing the debate on this agenda item. 85 We move to point 29. Ad. 29. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "in charge of the Council of Ministers and Competent Ministry of Security of BiH to refer within 30 days to the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Communication Act, which will introduce a single European emergency number 112, which is one of the important elements of an effective system of protection and rescue", issue: 01-50-1-2530/20 of 30. 12. 2020. The House College was responsible for considering that initiative by the Committee for Transport and Communications, the Commission delivered its opinion, the initiative was supported. Proposers submitted an amended initiative on 02.02.2021 in the sense that the words "BiH Ministry of Security" are changed in the words "The Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH". I'm opening a debate on this initiative. For the debate, MP Predrag Kojović, you have the word representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9199	I thank the chairman. Very short, all the automotives produced in the EU since 2018 have owned a mechanism that is related to the SIM card, which can help people who are in an accident. This mechanism enables not only the location of the vehicle, but the location of how many people in the car are tied up, the degree of damage to the vehicle and other things. Of course, the system only works if, when the SIM card is activated, it appears on the other side of the person to whom they can pass on the urgency and the accident. The BiH Council of Ministers at its 83rd session, held in 09.04.2009, chaired by the man we were now talking about, Mr Nikola Špirić, agreed on a new Regulation on the internal organisation of the Ministry of Security and that decision established the BiH Operational and Communication Centre 112, that is one argument. Another argument, which I also accidentally found on the BiH Ministry of Security's website, talks about the difficult times of the 2014 flood and begins with the – Operational and Communication Centre 112 BiH The BiH Ministry of Security during the catastrophic floods in the BiH area was the main centre in which calls for assistance were received from which rescue missions, aid delivery, equipment, medicines were coordinated. The first alarm at the 112 centre arrived on Thursday (May 15th) at four o'clock a.m. when a helicopter of the BiH Armed Forces took place about five o'clock a.m. from the roof of the house in Šekovici saved 12 people. Really, uh, I don't have, like, what to say, what to add. So we have a decision from the former Council of Ministers, we have these examples, we have a situation that will become a serious problem with people who buy cars from the EU and import them into BiH that the system will show that it does not work and can cause other, uh, problems as well. You today when you turn around, I've tried a few times, 112 you get an automatic secretary who tells you you're calling someone else and I really think this is about one thing that's so simple, so civilized and technical, that I really don't think there's any reason for anyone to be against it. Thank you. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9200	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate at this point. Moving to point 30. Ad. 30. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Damir Arnaut "which is asked by the Council of Ministers to allocate funds to help victims of the earthquake in Croatia, at a minimum amount of 300,000 KM", number: 01-50-1-51/21 of 4. 1. 2021. The House College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider this initiative, the Commission has delivered Opinions, the initiative is supported and addressed to further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. Predrag Kožul, debate, here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9202	So when it comes to this initiative, which I see here dated 04.01.2021, it is good to say that the Council of Ministers made a decision on a donation of 250 000 euros to the affected areas in the Republic of Croatia. I know that other levels of government have also referred certain donations, I know that especially through the Caritas of BiH, that we have had a series of donations concerning this, and it seems to me that, given this decision by the Council of Ministers of 12.01, this initiative is immaterial, or that the promoter planned to add another 300 thousand marks, this should be heard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9203	Thank you, counsel. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9204	Thank you, Chairman. So this initiative was written on 31.12, two days after the devastating earthquake, I can only assume because of the holiday that it was protocold on January 04th, which is essentially not three days later, but one day later. This and the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, held two sessions during that period, and only for the third time responded with a tip, and I think this is about the classic situation as well as the opening of the Gabel Polje border crossing, where the Club Our Party – The Independent Block sent the initiative and then Parliament does not ambush or be an entity majority, then it retreats for months and then the Council of Ministers reacts, uh, after seeing our initiative. And it's quite an acceptable way for me to come up with a reaction from the Council of Ministers, so we don't need anything to be adopted just to be adopted, we don't make any lines there, we have this really big satisfaction that's 12, 13 days after we've sent 87 of this initiative, after it's been published in the media, etc. was on protocol, delivered to all MPs, the Council of Ministers reacted and reacted, we said at least 300,000, they delivered 500,000, and it's really positive and I'm proud of the fact, so that by our actions we probably, very likely, came out. I do not see the need to withdraw the initiative, I think that we can send a signal to the Council of Ministers, we will eventually get a reply from the Council of Ministers that they have already received it, but I say it is already on the agenda, and I am sorry that this Parliament does not meet more often than the Council of the Republic of Croatia is meeting, but it has been a month and four days since we put something in the process, before it can come to Parliament's agenda at all, that is the problem. So, if you put something in the procedure of 31.12., and that's even the protocol on January 04th, that means one working day after that, uh, it's embarrassing to discuss this only on February 3rd, but we are in this situation because we have these agendas and that Parliament is meeting once a month, and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is meeting on average three weeks a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9205	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9206	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I apologize and hope that I won't be misunderstood, I don't know if I'm wrong, or if it seems to me that one of these seems to be the human gesture of the motionor, or if we can confirm it, is just the introduction to these next points by which this time, and the allocation of funds from the budget available to the Council of Ministers will be made available. So, from none of these decisions, so it's not just about this debate, you can't see from which funds, which parties, I mean the parties in the budget, how it's going to be ensured, if we're going to get into some story that we're going to start deploying, you see later these decisions and the initiatives that are proposed. So I don't know from this you can't see anything. I don't think this is a good way to do it, I don't know if the promoters have held talks with the Ministry of Finance, with someone, so to see where these funds are given, if they have a budget foothold, so I don't know, so I apologize again if I say, if this human gesture doesn't want to be used to get into another story now that the Council of Ministers is offering solutions to deploy funds from the budget without them sitting in their seats at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9207	Thank you. Advocacy of Nada Mladina, debate, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9208	With regard to this initiative, which was on the agenda of the Finance and Budget Commission, we discussed, we had no knowledge of any separation from the Council of Ministers, so I am sure that this initiative was the first to, they submitted it, the promoters, earlier, but it was not the turn. And as for where, from the current reserve, we can't assume what they suggested. I mean, I will personally support it, because it's not only a human gesture, but it's our obligation as a state, this is a matter of state, so to speak, level, because 88 of the Tuzla local community has long before set aside meetings for Sisak and Petrinja, although it has a much smaller budget, but from the current reserve and there has not yet been adopted the budget. Here, I don't think we need to get too foggy about this initiative. Each, every, converting mark or kuna will welcome citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we should also talk about BiH citizens in earthquake-damaged areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9209	Thank you. Representative Safet Softić, debate, here you go, MP. Don't turn it on, automation goes, just because you turn it off when they turn it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9210	Thank you very much. So with this initiative, I want to relate to what I was saying, uh, actually, here's what confirms that even with what we have as this point of the agenda and the next point for, I think, school in Bihac, etc. We could now cite a school from our neighborhood that is designed for a reconstruction, etc. And I don't think this is a good way to do it this way. Now I don't really understand, I don't understand the position of the promoter, if the motion has said that the initiative was submitted before the Council of Ministers reacted and if the Council of Ministers reacted with a higher amount indicated in this initiative, which is why the promoter does not withdraw this initiative from the agenda and simply makes this job easier for all of us. I propose to the promoter, if he insists that this point remain on the agenda, to rephrase this initiative in that each of us MPs in this House give up one month's pause in favour of the same topic that is at stake, if there is indeed good intentions and good faith that we help people who are in need and who have hit this earthquake in Croatia. This is how we're really going to turn into something that isn't even the Council of Ministers, which isn't even the Ministry and we're going to start bidding on certain projects, schools, other people's troubles, etc. So, I suggest that the Proposer, here, specifically offers us all an initiative to give up the monthly pausal on behalf of this, and that in such a way we end up with this point, and that what he has proposed to withdraw, because the Council of Ministers has already done its part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9211	Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9212	Here, Mr. Softić, instead of you suggesting to us what we're going to do with our initiative, I suggest that for the first time in three years you propose an initiative, a law, a conclusion, anything you consider necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9213	No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 89 We move to point 31. Ad. 31. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "required by the Council of Ministers to allocate funds for the construction of a new Bihac health building at a minimum of 2000.000,00 KM", issue: 01-50-1-95/21 of 7. 1. 2021. The House College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider this initiative, the Commission has delivered Opinions, the initiative is supported and sent to further procedures. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. No reports, I'm guessing. Predrag Kožul, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9215	So here I'm going to invite my fellow MPs to reject this initiative for three reasons, it's selective, co-optual and populist. Here, and my colleague Softić said something on the subject, so I'm going to explain all three of these adjectives. It is selective because the earthquake that took place in the Republic of Croatia felt and caused damage in a series of towns and municipalities in BiH, from Kozarska Dubica, Kostajnica, Prijedor, Novi Grad, Cazin, Buzima or here's something I might skip. So, everywhere there's damage, and the damages are estimated, the Council of Ministers is something, I would say, symbolically reacting in that part. It's paušalan because it says here that we allocate 2 million marks of funds to build a new health home building in Bihac. There is no relevant decision by the competent authorities, whether the City of Bihac, or the Unco-San canton on the construction of a new health home in Bihac. There is, truth, great damage to the House of Health in Bihaq since the earthquake, there is a need that is realized, that part of the home of health should be moved to either rented space, either in the areas which, as far as I could read, have been given a home of health so that it could work further. There are preliminary damage assessments, but in order for the new health care home to be built or the old home to be reconstructed after damage, it is necessary to pass a series of stages, from decisions, to draw up technical documentation etc. etc. For the current needs of the House of Health in Bihac, as far as I know and the Government of the Federation has allocated significant resources, because in some ways it is health care and in its jurisdiction. Indeed, I call upon all the political representatives of the parties who participate in the Council of Ministers, as much as they are complex or not, as much as this structure of government is or as it is, and we can talk about it, not to make such moves, not to bind the hands of the Council of Ministers, not to make such co-operations and populist moves, but to leave it to the Council of Ministers to provide, in accordance with their competences, funds, but not selectively and not to the Council of Ministers, but based on real needs in an optimal period of time and so much, here, on this initiative. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9216	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9217	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My discussion will differ significantly from my colleague Kožul's discussion, for I believe that this initiative is neither flat-rate, nor populist, but it corresponds to a real need which, unfortunately, took place because of a natural disaster, an earthquake that felt significantly in the northwestern part of BiH area and due to the earthquake, the greatest damage has occurred precisely at the House of Health in Bihać. I feel obliged to say that the pedated initiative is commendable, and thanks to my colleagues and colleagues to the applicants of this initiative for their understanding of the situation and the great damage that has taken place at the House of Health facility in Bihać, and as a result of the devastating earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslovak County in the Republic of Croatia on 29 December last year. It is very important and commendable that the applicants of this initiative recognized that the reconstruction or construction of a new health home facility in Bihać is not only a local problem, but that the resolution of the consequences of the earthquake should include the state level of government. I certainly had the plan, since I come from the UN-San canton, but I continue to plan and intend to act on the BiH institutions' budget if the Council of Ministers does not respect this request, and does not plan the funds for the reconstruction or construction of a new Health House facility in Bihaq, depending on what will be the final decision of the profession proposal or the decisions of investors. In any case, it is very significant financial resources that are necessary and that local authorities cannot provide for the construction of a new health home facility in Bihac. This initiative is asked by the Council of Ministers in due time to plan and provide for financial assistance from the state level to build a new Health House facility in Bihaq, and therefore I call on colleagues and colleagues to support the proposed initiative, and the Council of Ministers to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9218	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9219	Sir, colleague Emrić, so I don't think my colleague Kožul said anything casually, as he would say, in his performance. So, I'd like to know if there's some kind of request here, is there any pre-calculation of works, is there any sort of project to fix or build a new one, that we haven't given 5 million marks, which we're not 10, which we're not a million, I don't know, a million and a half? So, as here, why is two million, from which funds, from the reserve that the lady says, is this from Mrs. Mladina's reserve? Yeah, is there so much in that reserve, what reserve? So, nothing is flat-rate, let go of the intention and the real damage that the colleague was talking about and really what happened and what I was talking about from the previous point. So, don't bring the humanitarian gestures here now, to freshen our hands to the Council of Ministers and do the job for them, let's cancel the Council of Ministers, and we'll start sharing the budget. Well, I don't mean, he doesn't understand, what's all this stuff? So, is there a request, will it be? If there is, here, there may be a budget, as you say, perhaps the Chief of the Municipality of Bihać, perhaps I don't know someone will refer the request not only to 91 of the Council of Ministers, but also to the Government of the Federation, I don't know who to help, and that's okay, and then those bodies will discuss the request, so we can see our options and tell from these and these funds, we can do as much and so much, total, it takes 10 million marks, can you, as much as you can, etc. Now, I'm sorry, but my colleague Kožul is really right that it's casual, I mean, don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9220	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9221	Well, I would remind us again of the explanation of this parliamentary initiative, which is why I did not make any introduction, because, in the light of this postage initiative, it is specifically stated that these are preliminary reports carried out and what the profession has all assessed, how much the cost and reconstruction and the construction of a new facility etc. So they have specific numbers, but in any case there will be a requirement that will be very specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9222	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 32. Ad. Thirty-two. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Aida Baručija, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić and Damir Arnaut "by which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary House obliges the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide 100 000 KM for the purposes of preparation and international representation with the aim of assigning 70,000 KM to future women's handball selections of BiH and 30,000 KM to women's handball clubs in the name of match costs at international level in the context of the EHF competition", issue: 01-50-115/21 of 11. 1. 2021. The House College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider this initiative, the Commission has delivered Opinions, the initiative is supported and addressed to further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Nermin Nikšić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9224	I thank the chairman. Well, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues, but I'm going to try very briefly. 92 So, I know how hard it is to work in sport, and that's kind of how long I've been active in handball sports, and I know that when you don't have any help, and I want to make it very clear that this help isn't help, although it's probably in agreement with someone and suggested, but... first, why the future selections, so we're giving something that's going to be, or maybe it's not, why help isn't the Handball Union, and let's let the Handball Alliance where it's most necessary use it, 30,000 marks to compete in the EHF, you know how much it is, it can't be one team that's competing to pay their guests out there, this one, where it goes, while you pay the plane tickets or the bus or the road, the hotel, there, uh, there, it's not. So I think like I said, any help is welcome and I'll certainly support it, but I think it should have been that and that ten times the amount, uh, maybe it would have been concrete help. I will Sjetić, once in the Federal Parliament, a fellow MP, when handball players placed themselves at the World Cup, suggested that we plan a million in the Federation's budget for the prize if they win the medal. I said then that we could promise them the whole budget, because in collective sport there's no miracle happening on that team, you can miraculously beat one team better than yourself, some special engagement or their assessment, but in order to win a medal at some championship it takes that miracle seven times in ten days, it's impossible and we can... That's why I think it's so much more important if we systematically solve the financing of sports, the financing of alliances, which are state alliances, but for which, unfortunately, we obviously don't care about. So, I support the initiative, I believe that the amount is small, peaceful, any help that is welcome, but would prefer the Council of Ministers to find a system-based way of supporting and resolving the issues of sports, sportsmen and sports alliances in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9225	Thank you. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9226	Chairman, I hope you won't mind me too much, I'll say something about this initiative, but with a look at the previous one. In fact, really, with everything that we personally think should be supported by the damaged earthquakes or sports clubs, this really isn't the way. Each one of us has its own preference, some sport would support more, some other one, uh, and that's the only reason SNSD won't support this initiative, as well as the previous one. Although I would love to, really, support all possible health institutions, but really selective approach, flat-rate approach, with no concrete indicators, let's just keep it to the maximum right now, even here we start bidding which city is more damaged, whether it's a more important high school, a high school center in Costa Rica, or whether it's important this or that. So I'm not going to engage in this kind of debate, because it's totally inappropriate, as I think they're excess, I'm not going to say inappropriate, there's every right to delegate a question, to suggest, etc. but in total terms of relations, budget, needs and sports and institutions of social protection and health care throughout BiH, I don't think we should allow ourselves here individually to draw out any sport, any health care institution, any school, so that we here, this way, we opt out. So the SNSD will be against these initiatives because of the way we consider it inappropriate and that we bid and delegate one thing at a time. There you go. Thank you. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9227	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9228	I apologize for harassing you in these small hours, but still in this initiative, I am really talking to colleagues who are taking part in the work of the Council of Ministers, because of the responsibility and the Council of Ministers and us towards the Council of Ministers and according to the budget that we are going to adopt here or adopt. Sports in the Ministry of Civil Affairs last year are also expected for the budget in this year's million and 300 thousand marks. Of these funds, about 600,000 marks are in the lot that are scheduled for sports alliances, 400,000 marks in the lot that are planned for clubs. The funds shall be allocated according to the criteria adopted by the Council of Ministers, and on the basis of a public call to which interested alliances, clubs, etc. appear. and on the basis of their programmes which they have agreed to, the application to that public call. Are we going to derivate to the end of the Council of Ministers and in this segment, are we going to have all the resources that, tomorrow, I have an absolute initiative in this part, because I know a lot of sports collectives that need money. After all, the female handball champion has been coming from my polling base, from my county, from small Gruds for the past ten years. That says two things, that speaking against this initiative, I'm going to be guilty of this little girl's handball club. And the second thing, that the question of sports organisation is not how much budget resources you can withdraw, but the question of enthusiasm and organisational abilities of people who lead these clubs, because these small groups that have champions in women's handball for the past ten years, have a budget about 100 times lower than the Sarajevo budget, and that is why I really call on all of us who are responsible here, who are the parliamentary majority, who are participating in the Council of Ministers, that we cannot support these initiatives, because it is totally unencipated and hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9229	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9230	Thank you. Mr. Kožul has just apologized for harassing us, quoting us, harassing us in small hours. Well, man, it's not even seven o'clock, and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, here's your agenda, sitting today, tomorrow and on a bird, 03, 04 and 05, and don't let me read you the agenda, because the chairman limited the debate to five minutes, I need at least an hour. The other day, the Croatian Parliament sat down for up to four hours to discuss the interpretation, four o'clock in the morning, considering the opposition's interpretation, so no one there said small hours. It's a total lack of feeling, not even seven hours yet, we're talking about a home of health, we're talking about helping people, and you're apologizing here, so what are you putting us in a position to apologize for putting ten points on the agenda, otherwise there would be nothing on it to rely on that Council of Ministers. I see what's going on here, lines are coming together, SDA is protecting Špirić, etc. You have some theory, is that the ruling majority who cannot even hold the quorum alone can't vote for anything the opposition suggests and then blackmail each other. Maybe even Bakir's place there in the House of Peoples, in the College, etc. I invite all my colleagues, thank Mr. Emrić for 94 support, to support what is good for the people of this country, for most of whom seven nights are not tiny hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9231	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9232	Well, here's to a colleague of Arnaut, it's not a word here that we won't support or that someone won't support to help build a home of health or be given to a handball club, etc. That's not what this is about. Let's just say, at the Ministry of Civil Affairs there are grenades and then there are competitions and now, let's say, you have a lot of organizations, I know some that were rejected, which they wrote, uh, what they call questionnaires, well and they weren't allocated funds. And then we're going to break all possible laws, say we're going to vote on these allocations, and they may not have even applied, or maybe if they had applied, they wouldn't have everything, to say, they needed the paperwork to get it. So, many have been rejected, so there's something that Parliament doesn't do, fund-raisers for sports organisations and health meanings go according to some rules, and you who keep calling on certain rules now make it that in the congregation's majority ad hoc without an estimate, you know how many sports clubs there are in entities, cities, cantons, much of this would be a pure discrimination of all the sassed. And, but if you don't think I'm against it, if there's money, double it, in some budget reserve, but don't let us create what it's called, how the ministries that have already completed the proceedings and grants and now all of a sudden we're giving to someone who hasn't even applied, and we refused, and I don't know, hundreds of requests that went through the regular procedure. So that's total nonsense, then. As for the House of Health in Bihać, here if necessary I will pay some personal contributions, uh, but please don't let us determine which home of health and when, of course, I would now be able to determine, I want a new home of health in Kostajnica, I was downstairs, I'm disappointed, I want a new school that is unusable, go to another school, but of course I can't say now if I want to go to Costa Rica, I won't go to Bihać. So there's got to be some rule, and you guys who, let's say, keep your tension around it all the time, we have to... now you've suddenly moved on to some variant, ad hoc variant, totally ad hoc. Come on, they agreed, we'll apply for this, and if you don't vote you're bad people, you have no perception of humanitarian activity. I mean, here's the principle, and otherwise I'm willing to help everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9233	Thank you. Representative Safet Softić, correction of the wrong quote, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9234	I have a need to react to what Mr. Arnaut said earlier, that the SDA is here to protect Špirić, and to tell him, that really, in addition to these lectures that he gives us every time and, uh, he's giving lessons about the Rules of Procedure and all the other things, he should at least have some elemental decency for the people who aren't here and who aren't sitting here. So, absolutely no need for Mr. Arnaut to mention here Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, if he has something to say to him he can tell it himself, can find ways, but mention people who are not able to, therefore, here to defend themselves, is indeed a lack of 95 elemental culture and respect for each other. So, I would warn him really if he didn't do it and if he really dreams about the SDA every night and if he wakes up with the SDA on his lips, he'd stop doing it once, because the time really comes, so... take the measure. He's got his work cut out, let him do it, but let the SDA leave him alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9235	Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9236	Well, maybe it was a question of the Ethics Code, but I'll do it through the correction of the wrong quote. Comrade Arnaut, you won't tell me when I'm going to apologize and why and for whatever it is you don't have a right to, it's a question of my feeling about it and I'm asking you not to do it anymore, because otherwise yours is known as your feeling and measure, uh, and level of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9237	Thank you. Representative Adil Osmanović, debate, MP, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9238	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members. I've been thinking for a really long time whether to come forward when it comes to these parliamentary initiatives, which we just need to reroute 2.5 million to somewhere, without getting into the details of how, in what way, my colleague Nikola Lovrinović said, from which code to remove it and to which to transfer it. I can't be surprised that here the signed MPs, not to mention, with great experience in parliament in this way can propose initiatives. I can only understand this as if it were recorded somewhere that someone suggested an initiative. With all due respect to fellow Emrić, who said when it comes to 2 million for, when he said 2 million for the House of Health in Bihac, none of us are against it, but he himself finally said he would most likely come from the mayor of Bihac. Which means this is completely unprepared, we have here three, four items, three million and 800, and then six million, four and three hundred, and we say we give two million, based on which two million, two million, based on which two million. When it comes to these sports clubs, said counterpart Kožul, there are procedures, how it is done, the Ministry of Civil Affairs is calling public calls, they have programs, projects, and that's why it's being shared. And fellow Arnaut, I see you're jumping from above, you can't wait, how many initiatives did you propose here, colleague Arnaut? Did any initiative pass you by without the support of the MPs of the SDA? It is not one, and each time you attack, provoke, mention, take care of us for another two years to work here, hold to the dignity of this Parliament and to the integrity of every MP. So, I once again point out, none, here's a look at any of your initiatives have gone through without the support of the SDA Parliament Club. If only you had stood up once and said thank you, you recognise good initiatives, etc. But every time you're willing to criticise, every time you're unargumented, I think you're going beyond the measure of some delicious, beautiful behavior that should be adorned by every MP here in the House of Representatives. 96 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9239	Thank you, counsel. Representative Arnaut, non-resistance of the established daily period.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9240	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you really should have responded, given that we are at the 32nd point of the agenda, and Mr. Osmanović clearly read the material from the 31st point of the agenda and which point you concluded. So, we are at the point of the agenda of 70,000 for the Handball Team, Mr. Osmanović is reading material regarding the House of Health in Bihać, and this debate is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9241	As regards the non-accompaniment of the established agenda, counterpart Adil Osmanović, as president of the club, followed point 32, but he made a comparison, so this decision was connected, i.e. this point and from the previous two, I listened carefully, so that this finding of yours does not stand. jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9242	So I would just like to remind my distinguished colleagues and colleagues that the BiH institutions budget for 2021 has not yet been adopted, so that the Council of Ministers has the opportunity to assess on the basis of these initiatives what they can respond to, and in what way, so that no specific items should be listed in this initiative that will be downloaded, where the funds will be allocated, etc. That, if we come, if we have to come to the amendment phase, we will do it then, but now these initiatives are also how useful it is for most and for the Council of Ministers representing that majority, which represents most of this House of Representatives. That, on the basis of these initiatives, you make a contribution and support the real needs, this is not about something that is flat-rate, so it is asked without proper explanation and without real need. We need to respond to the real needs, unfortunately it was a natural accident, there was an earthquake, and there was a significant part of BiH, and it needs all these parts of help, and we MPs also have an obligation to help and ultimately help with these initiatives, in order to encourage the Council of Ministers to take care of everything and, of course, help to make these initiatives happen. So that and how we will all have the opportunity, and especially you who decide, who have the majority, to help those who really need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9243	Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations, you have the word representative. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9244	Emrić truly respect your discussions, and you will always have the understanding of the reconstruction of a larger or smaller or complete restoration or the creation of a new House of Health in Bihać, but look, here I will now read you a parliamentary initiative. The parliamentary initiative reads this: Asking the BiH Council to allocate funds to build a new health home building with 2,000.000,00 marks. That's why I said, these signatories here, looking at their experience, were supposed to say here – are proposed or asked by the draft budgetor for 2021 to predict 2 million marks for the construction or reconstruction of the House of Health building in Bihac, as well as for sport, etc. Here, we don't even have a budget, you know Emrić that we don't have a budget, you said it yourself, so that would be an initiative, that we give a message, a recommendation to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, if it doesn't, then we'll act here as an amendment. But this is just an initiative for me to put plus there if some initiative had and started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9245	Thank you. Representative Mijo Matanović, debate, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9246	Thank you very much. I use the opportunity to trust you in the College and all my fellow MPs and MPs and immediately say that I will not support this initiative, I don't know why this sport, handball and that woman was chosen, I don't know by what criteria, if we know that there are even more successful teams in other sports, simply mentioning two names here in this very explanation is not correct and against these people. This one, so I won't support it, because I would expect them to have the same support and the same way and all the other sports and all the other alliances. I, this one, am the father of two representatives who were at the cadet level in BiH, one of whom has medals from both world and European championships and has never received any support from any institution. I was head of a club that was president of the state, which compared to building a sports hall and for which he didn't get a single mark from all the budgets above the county. So, this one, just take this as an example, I don't think it's a good practice and it won't reflect well on all those who are equally counting on at least those minimum assets that they have on a grant at the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9247	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 98 We move to point 33. Ad. 33. Initiative for the Ministry of Security of BiH to regulate the status of liaison and encryption workers at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Proposer: Representative Nermin Nikšić, issue: 01-50-1-312/21, link: 01-50-1-15-16/21 of 3. 2. 2021. This item is listed at today's session in the agenda. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9249	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9250	Counselor, here you are as a proposing later, if you want, if you want to have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9251	Today I talked a little bit about getting into the agenda, and I thank my colleagues and colleagues for finding a place in today's session, and I think it's about correcting the injustice of six employees working in SIPA on the job of cryptostem, at the workplace of the liaison-code operator, and they're practically the only ones who are left without any addition while other police agencies have officials who have that 35% salary supplement, and the latest changes to the law have even increased their coefficients. Eight jobs have been systematized, and six of them are working and it actually shows little that this service, in my opinion, has been unjustly neglected, although we all know very well that this is a very responsible and professional job. The codes have always been people hidden from other people's views, people who didn't stand out, who worked in silence, for example, for which there was a special check, so when they were appointed and people who had to practically finish and special courses to work on these jobs. That is why I think the initiative is fully justified, because when you look at and compare with other police agencies, interior ministries, public security centres, public security services, police stations and all other agencies, it will always be seen that the cryptoprotection has always had some special status and special accessories with normal and other professional and operational tasks that exist. Since it's only six people, the initiative is towards the Ministry of Security, they will certainly do the best to assess and regulate it, and on our part, since people have come forward and, behold, I think some injustice has been done to them, I suggest we take the initiative and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-03-0.u9252	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. We're closing the debate at point 33. 99 We move to the 34th agenda, Ad. 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2019 State Programme of Activities Agreement between the European Union, represented by the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers' Directorate for European Integration, No 01,02-21-1-253/21 of 27. 1. 2021. The Committee for Foreign Affairs delivered its opinion, the Committee gave a positive opinion. I'm opening a debate on this point. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We've exhausted today's session agenda. I'll see you here at 8:00 for the vote. [[PAUZA]]
