ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1718	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1719	Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I have one request, if possible before... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1721	So, given the fact... [[no microphone turned on]] BiH has.....children who have... tragically suffered, eight in Possuje... I think it would be my turn to start today's session of the House with a minute of silence or in another convenient way to honor all of these people. If that's not a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1722	Okay, here's a minute of silence. [[/Minute silence.]] So, I would like to inform you that the session is attended by 15 delegates – 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. We have, therefore, a quorum for full and full-time, full-time work and decision-making. I would like to welcome all those who are traditionally invited to the House of Peoples session, these are members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations, NGOs and the media, all those who are most warmly welcomed. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to session 14 of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Today we are pleased to have here the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija and the members of the Council of Ministers who I warmly welcome and I am pleased that the health problems have been successfully overcome. And here is in accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Denis Bećirović was presented to Minister Zoran Tegelti for the Chairmanial Council of Ministers. Here you go, pal Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1724	Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few years here in the state parliament, I have raised a question that concerns the fair fight of Nana Fata Orlović from the Konjevic field for the return of her private property. It is a woman who has lost her husband and 20 other close relatives in the genocide against Bošnjak and women who have been fighting for more than two decades to return their private property. Nana Fata Orlović is a true heroine and BiH and Europe, a woman who has shown herself worldwide that she defends morality, honor and property. On the other hand, I have to say, organs bh. The RS entity has shown on this example once again that they have no morals, no honors, because they would not do what they do. Even the European Court of Human Rights has found that there has been an injury to Article 1. Protocol No. 1 relating to private property, along with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, which is clearly required to remove the illegal church from the avalanche of Nana Fata Orlović. Unfortunately, this injustice continues, a shameful fact indeed for the authorities in bh. RS entity, that they still do not return the private property of Nana Fata Orlović, and even more embarrassing that innocent women have been detained several times, even on the defendant's bench of the Srebrenica Municipal Court. The public here in the state parliament should repeat in front of the entire public that it is a violation of fundamental human rights, the issue is a violation of the BiH Constitution, the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Commission's decisions on property requests for displaced persons, refugees from 1999, the Ministry's decision, the competent, state, 2001 European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, and here and the European Court of Human Rights. That should be said publicly, both the Bosnian Herzegovina and the European and the world's public must know it. Why can't Nana Fata Orlović exercise her right to private property? Among other reasons are because there is evident absence of elemental humanity, because having humanity would not do this, the absence of any compassion, the absence of morality, and ultimately the absence of any desire to respect human rights. So I asked the Council of Ministers - what did you gentlemen do to end this reckless violation of human rights? Since I see that I'm about to have time to ask questions, that's where I'm gonna stop, and now I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1725	Thank you very much. I'm asking delegates, really, I didn't want to interrupt, time is up, but I'm asking you to... that according to the Rules of Procedure we run this session, it's the interest of all of us, it's not a problem 3 sometimes and to break through for a while, but here I am asking you all to take care of it so that you don't have a business warning. Who's answering for a word? Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija, please be the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1726	Members of the working presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, fellow ministers, media representatives, allow me a few sentences regarding this issue. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that BiH is defined without delay, and no later than 3 months, when this verdict is effective, this means from April 1, 2020, it has taken all measures to ensure the execution of the verdict, which has been defined to remove the church from the assets of the applicant. It has also been defined within three months of justice, to pay at 5,000 euros to the first applicant and 2,000 euros each to all other applicants. On the basis of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees held several meetings in communication with the competent institutions in Republika Srpska, where representatives of the General Secretariat of the Government of Republika Srpska, the Director of the Secretariat for Displaced Persons and Migration of Republika Srpska, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Faith, the Republic Directorate for Reconstruction and Construction, the head of Bratunac Municipality and representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church. As a result, it was agreed that the Secretariat for displaced persons and the migration of Republika Srpska should be the bearer of activities related to the verdict of... the court, which includes removing the church from the land. In particular, in the first phase, the Serbian Orthodox Church removed all movable assets from the church, and the Directorate's estimated cost of removing the church was determined at 77,000 KM. According to the information we received due to the occurrence of the pandemic, the covid was silenced by the process of removing the church itself and will continue in the spring of this year. When it comes to monetary amounts, I must say that we are material damage to Mrs Fata Orlović's first app, paid off on February 3, 2020, as well as three applications worth 2,000 euros. One number of applications in the United States due to lack of adequate bills to be paid to have not yet been paid. We expect that a complete process of execution of the European Court of Human Rights and Refugees will be completed in the spring of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1727	I thank the chairman, Mr. Zoran Tegeltija. Is counterpart Bećirović satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1728	I want to publicly say that the Kovida pandemic lasts less than a year, but this injustice to Nana Fata Orlović lasts at least 22 years. It is high time to start respecting both the BiH Constitution and the European Court of Human Rights ruling, it should be in the interest of all. I am really wondering why the Serbian Orthodox Church itself has not long since made such moves, so ethical learning of any monotheistic religion in this case, here, I am talking about New Testament ethics, calling for charity, for good, for understanding. It is almost a golden rule. Never do to others what you would not want others to do to you. How is it that 4 can't be solved for 22 years? We will also follow this question, whether it will resolve itself in the coming months, because I repeat, the establishment of justice in every part of BiH is the interest of all people. Sometimes I wonder – would something like this ever be possible in Tuzla, Sarajevo, Bihac, Zenica, Gradac, etc.? So believe me, no one in those environments would wait for any European Court of Human Rights ruling, the citizens of those communities themselves would correct such an injustice. Therefore, once again, I ask that this injustice be corrected as soon as possible and that Nana Fata Orlović welcome for life what is her fundamental human right, the right to private property.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1729	Mrs Dušanka Majkić, a question for the security minister, Mr Selm Cikotić, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1730	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Security, and it is about one important question, to whom the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH once paid considerable attention while this Parliament looked like Parliament and while respecting the procedures prescribed by the Rules of Procedures and Laws, but since nothing is important anymore, and since there is no longer any obligation to adhere to these most significant acts, then we can do as we please. So it was unimaginable that a year would pass without the Ministry of Security for the previous year submitting information on the state of security in BiH. So, just to say, for the sake of introduction, the question has been addressed to the current minister, although it is not the beginning and the error on his side, but it is the error of 2015, 2016. I checked the last time the Defence and Security Commission dealt with such a question, because it was a competent committee that discussed such issues and saw that it was the last debate in 2017 on information for 2016. Then the Ministry of Security decided that without respect for Parliament, which was often manifested, no longer provides such significant information that parliamentarians would get to know what it means and what the state of the country is. Why it is necessary and why other parliaments pay a lot of attention to such a document, it is the basis for the Parliamentary Assembly to help its conclusions to change something in this area. If you're not making any information, then that means you don't even care about anything that changes. If since 2016, the Ministry has not done so, we are not surprised why the migrant crisis is at the stage in which it is, because since, I think, since the beginning of this mandate and the Presidency, as well as MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly have asked for clear and complete information on the proposal for measures to overcome the migrant crisis. We didn't get it, and we don't know what the situation is, and occasionally we get some information that's not a complete proposal for measures. Why is it happening in the immediate vicinity of Vienna, and in Paris the acts of terrorism, with which BiH is the issue to fight, don't let Bog happen. Why has no common contact point been established yet, and why is BiH the only country that has not established co-operation with Evropol? Why does the Ministry of Security promise and finally fail to meet, to whom is the goal of fighting against all modern-day monsters? That is why my question is addressed to the minister, who is the current minister and bearing, unfortunately, all this which, all the merits of his predecessors, so – Why does the Ministry of Security not fulfil its obligations to the Parliamentary Assembly, related to the issue of annual information of 5 parliamentarians on the state of security, or when will the Ministry of Security provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the situation for 2019? Let's forget everything, because for 2020, it will soon be needed for 2020 to work, but at least let's see one document that could serve us both for debate and for drawing conclusions at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1731	Thank you very much. I want to warn the delegates again on time, so if you think it's a short time to ask questions, let's change the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Minister Selmo Cikotić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1732	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, respected MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. I understood the question, distinguished MPs Majkić, and her comment, but I think it is important that I point out the next few facts. Following the entry into service of the security ministers, following a review of the remaining commitments from the previous mandate, the development of security information in BiH for 2018 and 2019 joined. The information was drawn up and delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers on 18 December last year for consideration and adoption in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers and adopted Council of Ministers' work programmes for 2019 and 2020. However, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers has requested the addition of material to the opinion of the Office for Law, which has not been a practice so far, and the request has been respected, as soon as the requested opinion is delivered, the Information on the State of Security for 2018 and 2019 will be delivered to the Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption and after adoption by the Council of Ministers of Information will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly. I also sought the reasons for these delays, in essence, since I had received this information earlier that on the state of security in Republika Srpska on several repeated requests from the ministry, the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska did not provide a few years of official information, but were removed from the Ministry's website after the full procedure was implemented and they published. In a direct conversation with Republika Srpska's interior minister, I have agreed and we have established a mechanism for direct communication and delivery of this information, so I hope that in the time ahead these reports will be timely. You ordinarily commented on the contact, the national contact point with Europol. The issue was both in principle and finally resolved in terms of the consistent application of the Agreement that BiH signed with Europol in December, and I have already signed a document, i.e. an instruction on implementation, so you know that the issue is also resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1733	I thank Minister Cikotić. Is my colleague Majkić happy? Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1734	I thank the Minister for this information. But as for this joint contact point and last time you told me that we were close, so we didn't move away, the key question is – why start moving to the site of BiH Square 1? So that's the key question and that's the only dilemma left. And as for the other, uh, I'm glad you found out that this wasn't done, that it wasn't delivered to Parliament. I don't really see why, it's never been waiting for the Bureau of Law to give information that serves only Parliament. So, absurdly one thing and I ask you to look at what this is all about. And the third thing I'm trying to say is that there are no of these documents showing that two parliamentary committees, the Joint Defence and Security Commission and the Intelligence Committee are working. So, they don't work, one hasn't worked in years, the other asleep. That's what we should all imagine, the responsibility of the first people of these commissions is great, and we should take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1735	I thank my colleague, Majkić. I give my word to my colleague, Marina Pendeš, she has a question for the Minister of Security, Mr Selm Cikotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1736	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the envoys, ministers, members of the working presidency. Given the security challenges that we all face in BiH when we talk about illegal migration, and focusing on the causes, and not on the consequences, I ask the question of the Minister of Security: (a) Are you and if, when you have referred to the changes to the long-running Action Plan towards the Council of Ministers of BiH that involve hasty steps and actions to prevent and reduce the inflow of illegal migrants on the eastern border of BiH? ( b) Have you signed a document on the return of illegal migrants with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan? If so, please copy that document, explaining the constitutional and legal basis for signing. c) Have you made contact with colleagues from the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, since it is one of the activities and tasks through the Action Plan long ago adopted, about joint action to make the eastern border of BiH safer and impermeable for any form of illegal activity, as well as illegal migration? d) In your budget request have you provided financing for the human resources and technical strengthening of the Border Police in order to prevent illegal migration from the eastern border of BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1737	7 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1738	I understand that the esteemed representative Pendeš has asked practically four questions, and I will answer each of them individually. So, on 16 December 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted information with the Action Plan and activities to manage the migration crisis in BiH effectively. This is a document launched in early 2019 that has been significantly updated, has been updated and adopted, so half of the previous month, it contains seven priorities, 24 measures and 127 activities. The planned document, i.e. a plan of measures and activities to manage the migrant crisis effectively for its realisation, envisions a spending of 215 million marks, of which 2 million from the budget, 190 million from donations and a combination of budgets and donations of 23 million. I would like to point out from my priorities the following, so these seven priorities: 1. Strengthening the BiH Border Police to better control the border in order to prevent illegal entry of migrants on BiH territory. 2. Strengthening capacity for more efficient management of illegal migration in BiH territory, as well as the functioning of existing and establishment and operation of new temporary reception centres for migrant accommodation. 3. Realisation of the Readmission Agreement, strengthening of the reading capacity. 4. Strengthening capacity in the area of asylum. 5. Intensifying the fight against migrant smuggling. Six. Support to local communities where temporary reception centres have been established. Seven. Strengthening the capacity of the Co-ordination Body for the issue of migration, i.e. the Operational headquarters for the issue of migration to BiH. The second issue, which concerns the return of migrants to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Readmission Agreement. A readmission agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Protocol between the BiH Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Interior of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan was signed on 04 November 2020. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, the Agreement was signed by me, as Minister of Security, and on behalf of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Mr Ahmed Šah, Minister of the Interior of Pakistan. The constitutional basis for the signing of this Agreement is in Article III item (1) point (a) of the BiH Constitution under which the foreign policy in the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions and in Article V position (3) point (d) of the BiH Constitution is responsible for the conduct of negotiations for the conclusion of international agreements, the cancellation of the agreement, as well as ratification of such agreements with the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In view of this, it has been acted in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. The text of the Agreement and the Protocol shall be in line with the exchanges of diplomatic notes between the two parties. The agreed text of the Agreement and of the Protocol with previous accompanying documents was delivered to the Council of Ministers and adopted at the 31st extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers on 15.10, in accordance with the conclusion of the Council of Ministers, the text of the Agreement and the Protocol was delivered to the BiH Presidency, which took place at the 17th session, on 15.10th of the Decision adopting the Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. After the Agreement and the Protocol have been signed in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, the original copies of the Agreement and the Protocol have been delivered to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the purpose of launching the ratification process and storage in the International Contracts Collection. The text of the Agreement and of the Protocol will be given to you as representatives of the House of Peoples as part of the procedure of 8 ratification of international contracts, which is regulated by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. As regards contact with colleagues from the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro concerning joint action, I will introduce you to the fact that the border police in the previous period have already achieved good co-operation with the organisation units of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP of Montenegro, which have competences in the area of control and control of the crossing of the common state border, and Implementing protocols signed in continuity, based on the Convention on Police Co-operation in South East Europe. That co-operation shall, in particular, concern the regular maintenance of working meetings with a view to coordination and activities to protect the common state border, and in the exchange of data and analysis in the area of cross-border crime, which includes the area of combating illegal migration. Following the circumstances resulting from the occurrence of the COVID-19 virus, joint patrols and regular meeting maintenance have been suspended until further notice, but regular contacts with representatives of the border authorities of neighbouring countries are maintained in order to exchange information and plan state border surveillance activities. I also want to get to know you that I was through the Regional Co-operation Council scheduled a meeting with the interior ministers of all the countries in the region, which operate within the RCC for the end of November, but due to the deterioration of the pandemic curves, the meeting has been cancelled and we are in negotiations to schedule it in some first acceptable time this year. And your last question relating to the financial resources for the human resources and technical strengthening of the Border Police to prevent illegal crossings of the Eastern border. I believe that you know this well, but I remind you that when the budgetary application is made, the Border Police are moving within the limits of the approved budgetary framework, within which the necessary resources are required in the previous period to strengthen human and technical capacity. Due to increased migrant pressure, we believe it is necessary to take action in the next period to increase the budgetary framework with a view to providing dedicated financial resources to strengthen human and material capacities in the area of combating illegal migration. In the previous period, therefore, in the previous few months the procedure also referred to the Regulation amending and supplementing the Internal Organisation of the Border Police, which provides for an increase in the number of police officers, whose adoption would create conditions for increasing the budgetary framework in order to strengthen the human resources of the Border Police. On a proposal from the Ministry of Security, the European Commission, within the project "Help BiH in Migration Management" from the IPA..., has, among other things, approved the financial costs for training 300 cadets of the Border Police in the amount of 2.250,000 to implement the project activities and expenditure allocated as well as in order to meet the missing number of border police officers, and in view of the long-standing problem of uncovered border, which has increased in recent years due to a large number of illegal migrants, and is also negatively reflected in the effective management of operations and tasks from the jurisdiction of the Border Police and led to the need to hire of police members from the Agency in the form of the Ministry of Security but also in the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska, and as still the only way to fill police staff in the exercise of basic training of the Kadite, the border police continue to fill the vacant posts of initial acts. Following the entry of 300 cadets, the BiH Council of Ministers at the 16th session, held on 10 September, adopted a Decision establishing a cadet reception plan for BiH institutions for 2020 and what I would also like to underline, the first time this year is in Annex II's budget of the Ministry of Security planned 3,629.000 KM to remove the migrant crisis. Of course, compared to the total cost of crisis management, these are completely insufficient funds, but this was also very difficult to build into the budget that at least we have for some of the essential functions that the Ministry of Security is taking.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1739	I thank Minister Cikotić. Is my colleague Pendeš satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1740	I thank you for the exhaustive response, but from which it is evident that we are dealing with the management of the migrant crisis, not by preventing illegal migration, this should be focused, not on governance but about preventing it. If we predict 215 million to manage the migrant crisis, then those 215 million, those donors who say they care about BiH, should focus on strengthening the border police and preventing them, would not be dealing with the consequences, but rather dealing with the causes. Thank you Minister for, behold, showing me that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led by Minister Turković, meaning, since 14.11.2020, when this Agreement was signed in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, so to this day, has not been directed towards Parliament by those agreements, and in the same day, these agreements have been prepared at the Council of Ministers meeting of 15 October and the session of the BiH Presidency, on 15 October. Well, here's what you'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary to hurry up.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1741	Thank you very much. I beg you in the preparation of these parliamentary questions, I did not want to interrupt, it was difficult for me to interrupt the minister in response... was in one question asked four questions, so I ask the delegates that business preparations, therefore, one question and that we stick to business time, for these reasons alone, nothing else, if it is not right for the Rules of Procedure to change it, if we should give extra time. My kolegica Pendeš, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1742	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1743	I have not objected to you, not only to you, but I think when it comes to the question that within the time at hand the minister can get an answer, here in that sense, therefore, that we are not having a debate. Thank you very much. The word was asked by a colleague of Lidija Bradara, and she asked them a question for the chairman, Mr. Teglti. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1744	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-President, honourable members of the Council of Ministers here present, representatives of the media, friends and colleagues I welcome you all. In recent days of the past year, the Republic of Croatia has been hit by a new natural disaster with unfortunately human casualties. This material damage will be accumulated for a long time, and the issue of establishing a normal life for thousands of Banovina people is an end uncertain. But other than the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as you know, it is, so-called Banja Luka earthquakes, the effects of the devastating earthquake, were also felt by BiH residents, particularly Kostajnica, Kozarska Dubice, Bihaća, as far as I know, the millions of damage to the health building. That the fastest and easiest way to unite us has proved to be this time when countries of the region, numerous organisations and individuals have been helping and helping us for days. I am pleased that, among the first, BiH reacted, though our humanitarian organisation, various levels of government, local self-government, individuals, associations, but the question remains – How and how much did it even react, did the BiH institutions react at all, and I think of the Council of Ministers, which had to be first available for each type of assistance, but also to coordinate all other initiatives? As you know, all these humanitarian issues, especially when it comes to cross-border actions, have a lot of problems. In addition to helping the neighbouring country, are we either in what way or at least we plan to do for the above mentioned areas, both in the Republic of Croatia and in BiH, which have felt the significant consequences of this earthquake? And what I know to this day is that nothing has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1745	The word has a chairman, Mr. Zoran Tegeltija, please welcome the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1746	Thank you very much. Dear members of the working presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, this is a great tragedy that has affected Croatia, part of BiH's territory, and there are huge material consequences that will have to be eliminated for many years, in which our entire community will have to participate. As regards the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers analysed its financial opportunities immediately after the earthquake, since we do not have adopted the budget and today after the meeting of the House of Nations is scheduled a meeting of the Council of Ministers at which decisions will be taken on the one-time payment of money as a form of assistance to the Republic of Croatia and part of the funds for the Kostanica municipality, which is hit most by this earthquake. What is undeniable is that in this process of material recovery the damage will have to be included throughout BiH, I expect, first of all, that our business community, then entities, cantons, local communities and all together to understand the gravity of the consequences and the situation in which part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also part of the territory of BiH, i.e. the municipality of Kostanica, and that we will also understand through the budget of the joint institutions, but also through other budgets and engagement of our business community, will be able to provide more significant financial support for, in order to restore these areas. Unfortunately, what we can't make up for are human lives. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1747	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija. Is my colleague Bradara satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1748	Well, I did, although I think we should have reacted before, but if this is the beginning, I'm glad that's the case, and I hope that all of what you said in your answer will be respected. Well, I'm sorry you haven't done that before.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1749	Thank you. I now give my word to my colleague Čolak Colaku, he has a question for the minister of civil affairs, Mrs Ankica Gudeljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1750	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, colleagues and colleagues, concerns the purchase of vaccines in the fight against COVID-19 and is addressed to the minister of civil affairs, Mrs. Gudeljević. In fact, we just don't know or at least we don't know for sure who's getting the vaccine, who's getting it, or who's the relevant institutions that should be carrying out that procurement, we don't know, I don't think we have enough capacity, at least for that kind of vaccine that should be stored at lower temperatures, and it seems to me we still don't know much. The problem is, at what stage, here it is simply said, is the process of getting that vaccine. It seems to me that additional confusion also includes some statements of individual officials from different levels of government, and here to cut short, means I am interested, and probably interested in a significant number of residents of this country – we should say, at least, get the first shipments of vaccines, or vaccines, at least for the most priority categories, these are health care professionals, persons working in institutions, or homes for older people, the very users of these homes, the general elderly population and here are other vulnerable categories, would say that?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1751	I thank my colleague, Čolak. ministrica Gudeljević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1752	Honored members of the College, distinguished envoys. Bosnia and Herzegovina is included in two mechanisms for the purchase of vaccines, within the framework of the Kovaks mechanism with GAVI and within the EU through the Agreement on the common acquisition of health countermeasures. The agreement on the acquisition of vaccines via the GAVI Alliance was signed on 18.09.20120, based on the previous decision of the BiH Presidency after we obtained all the necessary consent from the entity government, the Brcko District, the Council of Ministers, thus ensuring that all actors are familiar with the content of the Treaty. As part of the Kovaks mechanism, 1,232,000 doses of the vaccine were ordered, according to the needs of the unit and the Brcko district, i.e. for 12 circuss 20% of the BiH population. These are only the first orders requested by the competent health institutions in accordance with the clear instructions of Kovaks. The availability of the vaccine was then announced for the first quarter of 2021. In line with the EU delegation's call, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, following instructions from the competent health institutions on behalf of BiH on 10.12.2020, demonstrated the need to obtain an additional 892 thousand doses of vaccines within the EU mechanism, where a priority was given to the manufacturer of Pfizer and Moderna. It is important to note that both producers have received the necessary authorisations from the European Medicines Agency. This should be enough to start the vaccination of the most vulnerable categories of the BiH population. The time and quantity of delivery will be determined by GAVI, i.e. by the European Commission in accordance with their distribution plan. I must stress that BiH has met among the first requirements of the contracts in question. For the purposes of both procurement mechanisms, the BiH Council of Ministers provided additional funds of 2 million marks to be used for the purposes of the organisation of imports and distribution of vaccines on a proposal from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. On 06 January this year, GAVI addressed the Ministry of Civil Affairs with a request to provide them with information on whether BiH is ready to accept Pfeizer vaccines Pfajzer a special temperature regime. On the same day, the Ministry of Civil Affairs forwarded this memo to the competent health departments to answer that question, or confirm whether they were ready or not. GAVI requires a response by 18 this month at the latest, so that they can provide a certain amount of vaccine for BiH as well. Until today, the Ministry has not received an answer to our memo, but I sincerely hope that the competent health departments will respond by 15.01 so that the Civil Affairs Ministry can respond in time to GAVI's alliance. According to GAVI's announcements, the first tranche of vaccines could arrive in BiH in the period at the end of January – February, the exact date is not yet known. The information we have is that vaccines and other manufacturers could be distributed in the first quarter of 2021, also through this mechanism. The needs expressed in both mechanisms will be more allocated, and competent health institutions will identify end-users of them. Since the responsibility in the area of health care is at the level of entities, the county and the Brcko district, thus also supply plans, as well as the plan and vaccination process. In the end, I would just like to say that the Ministry of Civil Affairs held a working meeting yesterday with representatives of the public health services and representatives of the Medicines Agency, where the import and distribution process itself was discussed in order to get the job done as quickly as possible after the vaccine enters BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1753	I thank Minister Gudeljević. Is my colleague Čolak satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1754	I thank the minister for her reply, and I am pleased with the answer, but I am not really satisfied with the dynamics that these processes are taking place in BiH, given the fact that the neighbouring countries are also, that I do not say most countries are already largely and have received certain amounts and have already begun vaccination, but here I hope that what the minister said will be fulfilled and that at the end of this month we will have the first quantity. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1755	I thank my colleague, Čolak. Delegate, Denis Bećirović, received an answer in writing to a question asked by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Is he satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1756	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1757	Thank you. Delegate Sredoje Nović, received an addition to the oral question asked by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, Minister Gudeljević Ankica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1758	Dear Chairman, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers and fellow ministers. I am, of course, pleased with the answer, i.e. the response of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I thank the minister for the prompt response, but the content of the response is simply incredible, not because of them, but because of the relevant interior ministries. My question concerned residence and residence of BiH citizens and a legal basis check that within 5 years all citizens who are and at which addresses they have residence and residence must be checked in BiH. It is tragic that almost only 25% of BiH's checks have been carried out, according to my knowledge several thousand people in BiH use fake residences and that people who go to the polls. What does that say in BiH? Are we really not going to determine who lives in this BiH? You know that the residence and residence depends on a great deal on the exercise of the rights of all BiH citizens, how many double residences within BiH, within the canton, Republika Srpska and the Federation. If this is how we approach law enforcement, then we really don't need any law, and I think that we need to take this issue seriously and to the side of whether we agree or disagree on some legal provisions that are formulated in this law in one way or another, so I see that the Constitutional Court will also say their word. But it is my appeal to all that the interior ministries are engaged in legal checking whether BiH citizens have valid residences or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1759	I thank my colleague Nović. Delegate Marina Pendeš received an answer in writing to a question asked by the BiH Council of Ministers. Does he want a comment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. At the 23rd session, the College of the People's House found that the Council of Ministers did not follow the conclusion of the House of Peoples, number: 02-50-6-16-7/20 of 12.06.2020. For 14 years, he decided to direct the emergency and request the Council of Ministers to deliver the specified material as soon as possible in order to be able to schedule a session of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly dedicated to the migrant crisis and its consequences. [[no microphone turned on]] This just lets you get to the knowledge. You've been given the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Denis Bećirović called, please welcome fellow Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1760	Since we are now talking, is that so, on the adoption of the agenda, I publicly requested in early January of this year to convene an emergency session of the People's House for the Escalation of the Mirgant Crisis in BiH. At the last session of this House on November 24th last year, I publicly warned that there would be an escalation of the migrant crisis and everything I said in this room on November 24th last year came true, even worse. In last session, on 24 November 2019, colleague Dušanka Majkić, for example, did not speak a word about the migrant crisis, but was therefore heroically released after a press meeting and a direct question of journalists – why did you not vote for Denis Bećirović's proposals regarding the migrant crisis? Her answer was, I quote -- we did not vote because Denis Bećirović suggested it. Okay, and that's legitimate, as far as it makes sense, I'm not going to discuss it right now, but let's get things cleaned up. Until this moment, counterpart Dušanka Majkić, as well as others from the club, did not, above all, suggest anything from the SNSD people about the migrant crisis, and the escalation is complete, we all testify to that. The state and people are in unseen problems, I am now publicly asking you at the beginning of the session, while there is no proposal for me – what have you proposed today in connection with the migrant crisis, who is now the obstacle to you suggesting anything and concretely doing here at the session, do you have any point in today's session of the House of Peoples dedicated to the migrant crisis, that perhaps now there is no obstacle to you? There is no proposal to this moment – what are you waiting for? Tens of thousands of people suffer because of the migrant crisis, migrants freeze, people's heads fall, 99% of the migrants are currently on BiH territory are illegal migrants, who are without identification, who have not legally entered the country, but illegally. Now, for every responsible man, it's a huge problem, and you reject all the proposals, you refused to strengthen the State Border Service, you refused to help the State Border Service, you refused to discuss it, any proposal that was proposed here has been rejected. I think that the migrant crisis and its escalation must be the point of the agenda today, so give people we want to deal with ephemeral things, the mass of some of the 2019 reports, and now in 2021, the whole of Europe is discussing this migrant crisis. We'll start talking about serious things, no vaccines, no budgets, no budgets in sight for 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1761	I'm sorry, but I have to warn you, come on, time, define the agenda point. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1762	So, as always respecting the Rules of Procedure, I have a concrete proposal, before that proposal I propose to you, my fellow Špirić, to take a 15-minute break, here I am as a proposing ready with the kolegij to arrange, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to offer you a point of agenda and discussion material. Can we take a 15-minute break like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1763	.... break, you offer the agenda point, the home will plead, I think it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1764	So what do you want him to hear? I don't have time for the Rules of Procedure anymore, but I have a serious argument to tell you why the migrant crisis should be the point of the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1765	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1766	Well, minus, negative 5o, it's not warm in Krajina, as it is in this room, do you know how much the citizens suffer for it, even those unfortunate people there, so we put the whole burden on the citizens of the Unsanican Canton, part of Sarajevo and Tuzlanski. It's unfair, inhumane, does anyone feel ashamed about it and in this room? So we have to discuss this, one home, another home, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Presidency, everyone has their responsibilities, but we can all take a little step
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1767	Can I ask you again to define the agenda point, this loses its meaning if I can't...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1768	So don't lose any sense, I'm reading this morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1769	So define the Dom point will say
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1770	It's all defined, don't worry, you'll get everything
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1771	Let's suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1772	in a scale with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1773	Well, here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1774	This morning I read the message, a member of the presidency, the chairman of Milorad Dodik says - we will not allow migrant centres in RS territory, we do not allow it. What is the European Union doing? Here I propose the first now migrant center in Milorad Dodik's yard, because it prevents us from creating a serious system that will solve this crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1775	May I ask you to define the point, so suggest whatever you want, whatever you think you should suggest, suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1776	My kolega Špirić, so my first proposal was to take a break to explain in detail and give you the material to discuss the escalating of the migrant crisis. To show our respect to the citizens of the Unsanitary Canton who suffers all this because of irresponsible names and the last name of politicians. That's not what you're up to, is it? In that case
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1777	When they listen to me, so... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1778	My colleague Miletić is free and you are not the problem after this. So, if you do not want to accept this proposal, again in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I am in writing providing you with a proposal for a new agenda, because it is immoral today to have a session after all these events without us discussing this migrant crisis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1779	Thank you very much. I'm just asking to avoid personal address, there's no need for that, you know that, as the College decides, that the chairman is equal to others, and when we have consent, when we don't have... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1780	Thank you very much. Here, given that I'm reporting for the first time, let me give you all a warm heads-up, I'm glad to see the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course all the ministers and deputies, and thank you for coming. I welcome all present officials from both BiH institutions and media representatives. Respectfully, and I would ask you here, given that all previous debaters have broken through this discussion time, I will see that in accordance with article and Article 61, and since I have a proposal for three points of the agenda, to allow me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to talk about every three minutes, but I will really try to be shorter. When it comes to these envoy issues, initiatives, 17 however you like, they will in a special way give one more confirmation that this was to be found on the agenda, so I'm going to go in line. I have delivered to you the initiative 30.12. what Mrs. Lidija said, that it was spotless, and that I also delivered this act to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Tegeltija, means that immediately after the earthquake in the Republic of Croatia, an extraordinary session of the Council of Ministers of BiH is held and that at that session, symbolic assistance is given to the Republic of Croatia in any way. The second part of this initiative was to see how and how, given the numerous calls from citizens from all parts of BiH who are willing to provide such assistance, see how or methodology to help these people through various humanitarian actions, perhaps the opening of a fund, phone calls, etc. So, not to prejudge, given the fact that I delivered this act to you on 30.12. This is the second time you've ignored these initiatives that I've delivered to you, and as far as I can tell, you're doing it for reasons that you're acting contrary to a member or article 19. The Rules of Procedure, are my colleagues, without presupposing that I am giving you a working time, you are my colleagues, I really respect and respect you, but I ask you when it comes to urgent matters, where BiH's face is actually being guarded, I think that you three should be able to meet any day, and that these questions are being held today in session, on the agenda, given that I am thanking Mr. Chairman, here he said today will be this extraordinary session and that decision will be made and I think there was no reason for you to consider this before the People's House just this and to push him to some commission, who will consider this when it's actually all settled, that's the first point. And I remain on that proposal that we should consider it today, have we already received an answer to that question. The second point, given the previous agenda, the 16th point of that agenda was my initiative from last time from the 10th month of last year, which refers to working-legal status or improving the working-law status of our civil servants and tenants. You took her away again, given that I was at the committee meeting, and I asked for at least two members of that committee, maybe I was deaf, and I didn't hear it, that commission was yesterday, and I was there all the time, and I decided that after the debate was held, that this proposal, or this initiative, should be addressed to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and I agree with that, and that's okay. The record, however, says -- therefore, the commission asks the dom Kolegijum to remove item 16 from the agenda of the 14th session of the House of Peoples. This isn't true, and I beg you, don't underestimate my intelligence, I don't mind, you take it off today, when this issue comes to the agenda, and then I'll talk to each other in a different way, and you'll see how I talk. It's all right, it's all right, everything is tolerated and I understand everyone's political attitude, according to our officers who have been waiting for this solution for 12 years to act like it should be a shame, a real shame, that you won't talk about it, I'm sorry I can't understand it. I don't prejudge, take it off, if you don't think it's necessary, sometimes someone will come and do it as Bog commands, you'll see. And third thing, so I'm asking you to put it back on the agenda. And the third thing, given Mr Bariša Čolak's discussion, which I fully support, I thank the minister in charge for what she said. We here in BiH have a serious problem, please listen to me and so I ask you, since some representatives of the Ministry of Health of the Republika Srpska and the Federation have asked me to do this, I ask you, to do today, possibly two things, of course, if you accept that item of the agenda. I will pročitaću, as it is a little complicated: To send a request to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH today, today, that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices immediately recognise the registration and verify the vaccine for 18 prevention of the pandemic COVID-19 approved by the EU competent authorities, as well as other vaccines contained in the application, and enable the procurement process, enable the procurement process. We can't get a single vaccine until our Agency officially puts those vaccines on the list that shows that these vaccines can't be obtained. Now what's the problem here, and why did I expand here "the EU"? We have demands, and I respect that, from Republika Srpska, they don't want those vaccines, they want some others. In order to enable people to buy these vaccines, I am not a doctor, I am not a geneticist, nor am I a team, I need to enable people to put five, six vaccines, which are in use worldwide and the Agency today to put these vaccines in order to get them, that is a prerequisite to even come into the vaccination phase. And the second thing, that immediately the competent Public Procurement Agency in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the "Official Messenger" number 39/14 to the member or Article 4.1 which speaks of contracting authorities, contracting authorities, to remind you, may be states, entities, District etc. and Article 10.c) make an exemption from the procedure and Article 21c) and d) to enable people to negotiate the procedure so that they can immediately enter into the procurement process with vaccine manufacturers. Why does it matter? If we don't do it from the inoculation in BiH, there won't be anything, or we'll wait for it until God's day, at least three, four months, not to talk about these things that Mr. Čolak rightly mentioned, not to tell you about the refrigerators. In the Federation except for one warehouse where we can store these Pfizer vaccines, we don't have any portable refrigerators as we transfer these vaccines from point A to Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla, etc. only our competent institutions are in the procurement phase through the UNDP to obtain it. So we have a vaccine, we can't vaccinate people. So, please, here's in writing, I'm asking you, so all of these three points, this one, is, if you want to go back, I'd like to ask you today to discuss these three questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1781	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1782	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1783	My colleague Miletić, along with all the initiatives, will, since we will be dealing with the Rules of Procedure, I must say that the College has a serious approach on every item of the agenda and must respect the Rules of Procedure for each, I am sorry, there is no real reason to be angry, it was never our intention to reject anything in advance, but to pass the procedure and make the House known, so this is the position of the College. And now we will plead, of course,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1784	But please, it means an obligation under the Rules of Procedure... that every 15 days... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1785	Yeah, yeah, session, we're holding 19.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1786	So, I'm not talking about giving you a lecture on your working time, I'm saying there's a few... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1787	Okay, we're all, we've Zlatko it all figured out... Now let's face individual demands, first colleagues Bećirović. His request was to include a new item on the agenda, which is – Considering the full information of the BiH Council of Ministers on the escalation of the migration crisis in BiH, with a special reference to the situation in the UN-San canton and a concrete proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the migrant crisis. I'm asking you to plead with me on this initiative. For six against four, abstention by no one. Federation – for 6. Republika Srpska – 4 v, abstention 1. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1788	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1789	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1790	There's no general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1791	There is no general majority, and this point has not been supported to be a part of the agenda. We move on, therefore, now at the request and on the initiatives of counterpart Miletić. The first initiative of 30.12 is to help the cities of the Republic of Croatia in the context of the mitigation of the result of a catastrophic earthquake, so that the point is on the agenda. Please vote. For six against four, abstention by no one. For 6 from the Federation of BiH, against 4 from Republika Srpska, abstention 1. So we don't have the general majority, this point won't be the point of the agenda by the decision of this House. We are going to the second request to return to the agenda of the 16th initiative of 23.10. ... relating to improving the status of employees in BiH institutions. Please vote. So -- for 5, versus 5, abstentioned no one. From, for, the Federation for, for no one, against, that of the Federation – in 5, against 5. 20 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let's do it again. So – for 4, versus 5,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1793	Against nine. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1794	Against 9, yes, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1795	Two [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1796	2 abstentions, so we have neither general nor entity __________(?) I'm asking you to repeat... [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, here's another vote, please. New report, present 15 – for 5, v 9, abstention 1. So we don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. The Federation of BiH – for 5, against 5, abstained no one. Republika Srpska – vs 4. abstentioned 1. We don't have a general or entity majority. So this point won't be the point of the agenda either. We move to a third request – That the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH makes a request that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices immediately recognise the registration and verify the vaccines for the prevention of the pandemic COVID-19 approved by the competent authorities of the EU, as well as other vaccines contained in the application, and enables the procurement process, while at the same time the competent Agency for Public Procurement in accordance with the Public Procurement Act "The Official Messenger of BiH" 39/14 and Article 4 (1) Contracting Authorities and Article 10.c) exemption from the procedure and Article 21c) and d) of the negotiation procedure, constitute a decision on the exemption from the law exclusively for the purchase of vaccines in order for the competent institutions to urgently continue the negotiation procedure and for the citizens of BiH to obtain vaccines, and to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic COVID-19. Let's face it. Pristuno 15 – for 4, v 9, abstention 2. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority, and this won't be the point of the agenda. 21 We have now adopted, so the next Agenda has been adopted. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a law on provisional measures in the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other accidents on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-865/20 of 05. Ten. 2020; 3. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-14/20 of 14. 12. 2020; 4. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions, No: 02/1-50-8-22-12/20 of 20. Ten. 2020. (proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, issue: 02-02-1-840/19 of 27. Seventy-seven. 2020.; 5. Proposal for a report on the implementation of the BiH Strategic Rural Development Plan (2018-2021) – Framework document in 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-50-18-1795/20 of 09. 09. 2020; 6. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2019, submitted by: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-18-19-1991/20 of 13. Ten. 2020; 7. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-1-1873/20 of 23. 09. In 2020, 8. Official Journal of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 11. 2020; 9. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2019: 9.1. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Anti-Doping Control Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1311/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.2. Report on the financial audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1312/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.3. Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Skills of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1523/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.4. Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1322/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.5. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Public Procurement Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-424/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.6. Report on the financial audit of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-151/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.7. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Market Oversight Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1040/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.8. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Insurance Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1041/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.9. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Police Support Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-152/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 22 9.10. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1051/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.11. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-11423/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.12. Report on the financial audit of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2019, issue 02-16-1 1524/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.13. Report on the financial audit of the Labour and Employment Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-425/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.14. Report on the financial audit of the High Education Development Agency and quality assurance of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1153/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.15. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-428/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.16. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1525/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.17. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Education and Professional Complementary Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1314/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.18. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments for 2019, issue 02-16-1133/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.19. Report on the financial audit of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1429/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.20. Report on the financial audit of the 2019 BiH Archives, issue: 02-16-1-1042/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.21. Report on the financial audit of the Centre for Information and Recognition of Higher Education of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1052/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.22. Report on the financial audit of the Mine Removal Centre in BiH – BHMAK for 2019, issue: 02-16-1154/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.23. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1526/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.24. Report on the financial audit of the Economic Planning Directorate for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1053/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.25. Report on the financial audit of the BiH European Integration Directorate for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-054/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.26. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1432/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.27. Report on the financial audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection for 2019, issue: 02-16-1171/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.28. Report on the financial audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety for 2019, issue: 02-16-1315/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.29. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Return Fund for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1057/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.30. Report on the financial audit of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers for 2019, issue 02-16-1172/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.31. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Border Police for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1527/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.32. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Consumer Protection Institution for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-528/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 23.9.33. Report on the financial audit of the Human Rights Institution of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1143/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.34. Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Accreditation of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1529/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.35. Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-058/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.36. Report on the financial audit of the Institute of Metrology for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1316/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.37. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Missing Persons Institute for 2019, issue: 02-16-1173/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.38. Report on the financial audit of the Institute for Standardisation of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1059/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.39. Report on the financial audit of the Project Implementation Unit for the construction of the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1530/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.40. Report on the financial audit of the BiH concessions Commission for 2019, issue: 02-16-1434/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.41. Report on the financial audit of the Competition Council of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1435/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.42. Report on the financial audit of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari, memorial marking and mesars for victims of genocide from 1995 for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-318/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.43. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for 2019, issue: 02-16-1176/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.44. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2019, issue: 02-16-1174/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.45. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1532/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.46. Report on the financial audit of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1175/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.47. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1533/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.48. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Justice for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1534/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.49. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Security for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1319/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.50. Report on the financial audit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1535/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.51. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1060/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.52. Report on the financial audit of the State Service Board for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1320/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.53. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2019, issue: 02-16-1177/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.54. Report on the financial audit by the Commission for the conservation of the national monuments of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1317/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.55. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Ombudsman for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1430/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.56. Report on the financial audit of the 2019 BiH Presidency, issue: 02-16-11536/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 24 9.57. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1537/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.58. Report on the financial audit of the Office for Foreign Affairs for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1437/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.59. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Joint Affairs Service for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1438/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.60. Report on the financial audit of the Central Coordination Unit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2019, issue: 02-16-11430/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.61. Report on the financial audit of the Central Election Commission for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1431/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.62. Report on the financial audit of the Court of Justice for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1538/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.63. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-539/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.64. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Health Protection Authority for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1439/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.65. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1540/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.66. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2019, issue: 02-16-1056/20 of 29. 05. 2020, 9.67. Report on the financial audit of the Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH for 2019, issue 02-16-1-1440/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.68. Report on the financial audit of the Office for the Review of BiH's 2019 Appeals, issue: 02-16-11321/20 of 02. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.69. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Veterinary Office for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1541/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.70. Report on the financial audit of the Office for the Law of the Council of Ministers for 2019, issue: 02-16-1178/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.71. Report on the financial audit of the Constitutional Court of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1179/20 of 11. 06. 2020, 9.72. Report on the financial audit of the State Aid Council for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1441/20 of 14. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.73. Report on the financial audit of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1542/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020, 9.74. Report on the financial audit of the Institute for the Enforcement of Penal Penalty and Other Measures of BiH for 2019, issue: 02-16-1-1543/20 of 24. Seventy-seven. 2020; 10. Annual audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02-16-9-1910/20 of 29. 09. 2020; 11. Report on the awarded ongoing grant "Cofinancing of NGOs projects in the area of prevention of HIV and tuberculosis in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01.02,03-50-18-148/19 of 20. Eight. 2019; 12. Report on the dedicated spending of grant funds in the field of science and culture for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1349/19 of 31. Seventy-seven. 2019; 25 13. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative tasked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to the Law on the Protection of Water for Human Consumption in Bosnia and Herzegovina within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in co-operation with the competent authorities, in preparation and in parliamentary procedure, issue: 02-50-6-1918/20 out of 30. 09. 2020; 14. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, tasked by the Council of Ministers of BiH, to provide a full analysis of the established parallel ties between the Republic of Serbia and the Bosnian Serb entity within 45 days of the adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with a special reference to respect for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, number: 02-50-6-2040/20 of 15. Ten. 2020; 15. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative tasked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples with the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare this initiative within six months of the date of adoption and to refer the genocide prevention strategy to the parliamentary procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-50-6-2227/20 of 18. 11. 2020; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, the Joint European Fund for the Western Balkans /WB-IG-02-BiH-TRA-06, ‘Mediteran Corridor CVC: Bosnia and Herzegovina – Road Interconnection with Croatia, Subdivision I Tarcin – Ivan“, issue: 01,02-21-1-2280/20 of 26. 11. 2020; 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Gr CF2 W2 – Energy Efficiency Project in public buildings Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue 01,02-21-1-2288/20 of 27. 11. 2020; 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (GCF2 W2 – Energy Efficiency Project in public buildings Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to an investment grant from the Regional Energy Efficiency Programme for the Western Balkans (REEP), No: 01.02-21-1-2308/20 of 01. 12. 2020; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant and Amendment 7 Agreement on the 27th Funding Treaty 02. In 2006, between KfW, Frankfurt at Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Council of Ministers of BiH (primary), amounting to 5.000,00 euros for the project Relieving the Impact of COVID-19 on Peace, Small and Medium Enterprises (MICMSME) through the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH), signed on 27 October 2020 and 29 October 2020 in Sarajevo and Frankfurt on May, issue: 01,02-21-1-2332/20 of 03. 12. In 2020, we move to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1803	I thank the president. Since this is the year 2019 and when this is read in detail you have various indicators and you can see where agricultural and rural production is going in BiH, however what is interesting to me at the moment and what would actually be interesting for the agriculture that in this country, other than some 29 treat as a social activity, should be an important branch of the economy. I think that, in particular, here, even though one part of the text reads it, it should pay attention to point 5 of the Strategic Rural Development Plan, and in the meantime, because here it is in 2021 and it will be done, I suppose, new strategies, that all current calls for IPA II and III funds currently in place, are using different criteria at Federation and Republika Srpska level, when it comes to the level of development of municipalities in BiH, and I think that should be defined in the same way in any case. There is also no unique position on the definition of rural municipalities in the Federation and Republika Srpska. So, municipalities that are being led undeveloped in Republika Srpska or Group IV in the Federation of BiH or highly undeveloped in Republika Srpska or Group V in the Federation, are not defined by a unique methodology. In the Federation, it is further difficult because, according to the existing methodology for rural development, for example, Kupres cannot get 20 points for calling to be opened by this rural development strategy, as a highly rural municipality, and in this way the criteria for the distribution of funds through public calls IPA II and III, which are regulated by the Strategic Rural Development Plan methodologically unwarranted assessments at the beginning, subtract points from individual municipalities. It is therefore proposed to pay particular attention to the preparation of criteria for evaluation of projects to be supported. Well, I think just as one, I don't think there should be a conclusion, but here's the ministry that's following all of this, surely in coordination with the competent federal, entity ministries, we should go into procedure to level the criteria for rural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1804	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As it is said, it is the realisation of the Strategic Plan for Rural Development of BiH 2018-2021, as we have already set foot in 2021, I hope that we will be able to see this strategic plan for 2021-2024 soon on our parliamentary benches, so that we can possibly give corrections. And as for today's agenda item on behalf of the Club, I would suggest three conclusions: 1. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry of BiH and the lower-level competent institutions are tasked with implementing a plan for the establishment of an IPARD operating structure in BiH to make use of the European Union's IPARD funds as soon as possible. 2. It is up to the foreign trade and economic relations ministry to urgently refer to the plan to harmonise direct support measures and market interventions in BiH and the plan to harmonise rural development measures and general services in agriculture. 3. The Office for Harmonisation and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH is tasked with implementing, prepared harmonisation plans and measures of agricultural support in BiH in co-operation with competent institutions. Thank you. Here are the conclusions in writing. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1806	I thank my colleague Sarajlić. I only have one request, and I think since this is the 2018 Report, and I think it's more appropriate that we have these conclusions when we get this report for the period ahead, because to adopt them within the 2018 report, it's not, it's not meaningful for me. So, I'm asking you only for this dose of understanding, so when we have a plan for 2021-2024. ok to discuss, in my opinion, these conclusions and that....
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1807	In 2021, you're covered here. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1808	Yeah, but it's not, it's not, it's here. This is the 2018 report, so it's the time behind us.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1809	I'll draw my conclusions to the sekretarijat, and here we go. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1810	And to use them.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1811	instructions, we don't have to today... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1812	Okay, thank you very much, thank you for understanding, I think it's more meaningful and better... Izetbegović. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1813	I think these conclusions stand unbound simply, that they commit and that it's good to adopt them today, no matter what the occasion, they function for themselves. So I suggest we adopt them now, vote on them.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1814	I, okay, there's no problem, if you insist on voting, it's not a problem, but I think it's more useful that we can reach a conclusion agreement, it's us, if the goal is to achieve it. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1815	We're just stalling, you know, BiH is the only one with Albania that's not with IPARD, which we wouldn't be using,... should think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1816	I agree and that this should be updated under plan 2021-2024. We will not use them for 2018. I am saying this is the time that has passed. If we want to make these conclusions happen, I'm ready, I'm ready to work on them to have conclusions, but it's not for me to adopt the conclusions of Report 2018 as part of this report, we can propose them at the next session as special conclusions, that a special point and that's okay with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1817	I think the report is just a cause, so he, these conclusions aren't, they're not part of the report, and he's a reason to fix some mistake and to do it this way in the future. So I would suggest we adopt these conclusions today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1818	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1819	I would like to remind, in fact, to tell the delegates that, on this issue, the committee is responsible for the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission in two corners of the debate, certain steps have been made on this plan, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is tasked to bring closer to the views that will allow these IPARDs to be used, which are grants. Because we now use IPA funds of which 20 to 30% retain the UNDP as the implementer. So if we vote today, we'll vote against, because it's not a done deal. But yesterday, a representative of the ministry told us that good steps were made and that he expects the job to be finished in due course. So, the suggestion is not to tear it down today, but to wait for them, the ministry, to finish its job as necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1820	I'm sorry, I haven't seen you, my fellow Miletić. Please forgive me. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1821	I won't be long, very short. I don't want to oppose anyone in any sense, and especially this one who will vote and who won't vote, I just want to warn you that 90,000 people in Republika Srpska live out of it, you vote against them and against 40,000 people in the Federation who live directly from agriculture. This is a very important project, and for me, the most important, one of the most important things that is to happen in BiH, and I hope, here I do not see Minister Košarac succeeding in making this co-ordination body that will tie it up and actually start using these funds. Is withdrawing funds, I'm not just talking about this Strategic Plan until 2021 and from 2021 and beyond, I think it's of strategic importance for BiH and that we need to support all proposals no matter where and from which political parties they come from, just to get these people to the money and simply provide them with survival in any way. 32 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1822	I agree, colleague Miletić, we are working in that direction, and I think we will adopt these conclusions and that the foreign trade ministry will come to the realization of these conclusions. So we're voting on the report
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1823	Mrs. Pendeš. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1824	Marina, colleague Pendeš, I'm sorry I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1825	... since this is the point of the agenda – The proposal for a report on the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan for the period 2018-2021 is an ideal opportunity for the Council of Ministers to adopt a new strategic plan based on 2021 and a certain number of years, it is an ideal opportunity for these conclusions to be adopted through the Council of Ministers and an integral part of this Strategic Plan, and today to define ourselves only on the implementation of the report for the past period.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1826	I thank my colleague, Pendeš. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. We vote on the report on the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan 2018-2021. – Framework document in 2018. At present 14 – for 10, against no one, abstentioned 4. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against no one, abstentioned 4. Are we going to the second round of voting? Let's go. Let's go to the second round to plead. So 14 present - for 10, against no one, abstentioned 4. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against no one, abstentioned 4.. I konstatuj that the report on the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan for BiH 2018-2021. – Framework document adopted in 2018. 33 We move to point six, that is Ad. Six. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2019, applicant: State Regulatory Agency for radiation and nuclear safety, number: 01,02-50-18-19-991/20 of 13. Ten. 2020 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the Commission has not accepted the report. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 14th session, held on 09.12.2020. I give my word to my colleague Asim Sarajlić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the session, if necessary. No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1828	The issue of radiation and nuclear security is a very serious issue for BiH, we are all witnessing that neighbouring Republic of Croatia has decided to build a nuclear waste disposal site in the Shop, so close to the state border of BiH. I am now asking that the competent minister from the Council of Ministers for the Speakers publicly tell us that things are about it and how threatened BiH citizens are with it. Serious people from the profession warn that at least 300,000 citizens, especially that part of BiH from both entities, are directly threatened by such a relationship between the Republic of Croatia and their decision to build such a dump right next to the state border of BiH. So, I'm asking the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General to now publicly tell us exactly how it is, and if they happen to be gone at this point, I suggest we leave this point then for the next session and get a direct statement on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1829	I thank my colleague Bećirović. So, is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who can give an answer? There isn't. I have to say, we need to make a statement about this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1830	He's got a director of the Agency. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1831	Is the director of the Agency willing, asked the Council of Ministers, counterpart Bećirović. 34 _________(?) Since it's an independent administrative... agency for... [[no microphone turned on]] The State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, we don't have a competent ministry, and I, as Deputy Director, would answer this question to an esteemed MP as far as we came with... what is the situation now... If... please, we don't mind, sir. _________(?) I thank the chairman. So, the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry launched the establishment of a legal and expert team, both teams were formed at the end of the tenth month last year. I'm proposing to coordinate with an expert team of 22 members, over ten university professors, two foreign experts deal with this problem, monitor everything that happens in the section. At this point, public procurement by the Krško Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Fund and all segments is being sought by companies, experts' companies that will do, strategic assessment is over, but are now doing environmental impact assessment, Čerkezovac operation, for the storage of low and medium radioactivity in one facility, the former JNA warehouse, would go to spent sources from Ruđera Bošković and... and a new facility for low and medium radioactivity from Krško, part of Hvatski 50%, which would be packed in concrete containers of 15 tonnes. Any container would be tested for transport, storage and disposal. Seismologists, geologists, construction engineers, professors, international two experts with long-standing international experience are on the expert team and will follow up on all stages the Republic of Croatia and ask for microlocation procedures to involve our experts. At this point, it's a very interesting seismology, there's an accent, and maybe the expert team and some seismology expert will expand. As far as the legal team is concerned, the Department of Justice is in charge, I don't have enough information, but all the information we have on our cloud we can leave to them and hold virtual meetings, until now six meetings have been held. The report according to the Council of Ministers is going in this month, as a decision has been defined every three months to report to the Council of Ministers on what these two teams have done. As things continue to happen, I don't know, we're trying to establish an open relationship with experts from the country and make everything transparent both for experts, both for experts and for the public, and we don't think it's been transparent enough so far. If there's anything else, I'm doing this much right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1834	I won't be long. I'd like to thank Mr. Deputy for this information. What I was about to say is, this question is often used in BiH for daily-political purposes, and I find, unfortunately, because of this disaster that happened to the Republic of Croatia, this is what Mr. Deputy was talking about, I think, although I read on the 55th to 58th terms all these facts relating to the disposal of nuclear waste, which is known to you all, and also mentioned, if I am not mistaken, on page 73 in the conclusions, I think that a different approach to 35 of the Republic of Croatia, in the sense that people see that we are well-intentioned and that we want to cultivate good neighbourly relations, that we simply try to convince people in another way. I think it is a good time to do this, and I hope that if there is understanding on one side and on the other, they will be able to find another solution, especially what these projects will now prove, given these developments and all the divisions or divisions that exist in the Republic of Croatia, that it is also from the aspect, whether these earthquakes affecting Croatia, this area is insecure and from this aspect, that I am not now entering scientific theories as and in what way, in which depth it is going to bury it. But I would really ask that we try, so in a good neighbourly way with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia to solve this issue, I think we will come to an understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1835	I thank my colleague Miletić. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. Let's go out on the report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2019. So present 14 - for 12, against no one, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – for 8, against no one, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. I find that we have a general and entity majority and, therefore, a report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2019 has been adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-1-1873/20 of 23. 09. 2020 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Commission has not accepted the report. The House of Representatives at the 14th session, held in 09.12.2020, adopted the Report. I give my word to my colleague Lazar Prodanović, who was appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur at the House, if necessary. There isn't. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and has needs. There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 36 We declare the report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019. So present 14 – for 10, versus 1, abstention 3. Federation - in 7, versus 1, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 3 against no one, abstention 1. I agree we have a general and entity majority and I find that the report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 has been adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Department for 2019, issue: 01,02-50-18-2196/20 of 10. 11. 2020
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1838	So, you know colleagues and colleagues that every year when we consider these reports, they are not particularly interesting to us what they show, and they are particularly non-ferrous and little when there is a stronger debate in this matter. I wouldn't be saying it now, if I hadn't received a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2019, and on page 126, point 14. there's something called potential obligations. These potential obligations were startling to me, because first I saw they didn't have the same information from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, so he gets it, he gets detailed information, and Parliament is written like this, so who gets where he gets it. So in that part, written according to the Ministry of Finance, that with 31.12., the Ombudsman institution had 984 litigation cases in which BiH institutions appear as a defendant, and the value of all these cases was a quarter of BiH's budget, that's 250m and a few million, and then it was distracted, so again in... the implementation of the budget stands, so that in the event of the loss of the dispute, this could have serious consequences for the BiH institutions' budget. And when I read that, I was amazed, so I reviewed the report and I don't see any of those signals that should inform me of that condition. Then I looked further and saw that it was 32 institutions with 984 litigation cases and looked that the first five institutions were the Ministry of Defence with 195 cases, the Directorate for indirect taxation with 67, the Council of Ministers with 15, and more than 20 million, the Ministry of Transport 7.5, here is none of the ministers, but it was interesting that here, the Agency for Identification of Documents and Records, Data Exchange 4.4 million. 37 So, then I asked further according to that report, so I found something that answers my question that of a total of 237... the data appears that 237 could not possibly get out from where in this report on the implementation of the budget was 984 items, ended up in favour of the opposite side. So, of the 237 cases, they ended up in favour of the opposite party during 2019, about 130 cases were related to three types of disputes: 1st litigation proceedings by judicial, judicial staff, we know that this is now related to this law that we later passed and that we have solved that part of the problem; 2nd litigation proceedings by members of the Armed Forces, so these are salaries and fees, differences between personal and formal act, some sixty more cases and 3rd litigation cases due to unfounded lack of freedom, 30 cases. So, when you have all this in mind, according to this, if you remember, I've also asked a delegate question, to answer me what the Justice Department is doing to make things work out if they're a problem, but that's one problem. Another problem is the way to report to the D.A. I am absolutely dissatisfied with the way this institution reports are done. In particular, here at the end of the report, it says – that, for itself, it has achieved good results and that, in order to advance and improve work in representation procedures, it will be in the coming period to take appropriate steps, to remove shortcomings that cause litigation whose outcome in the rules is unfavourable for the institutions represented. So, they suggest that something is happening, but it's not translated into Parliamentarian language that they can understand exactly what it's about. So what's written to the Ministry of Finance is appropriate and we understand what it means and we can react to it and ask for change. What's written here doesn't mean anything. Second, it says – that the final step is to inform the legal process of the defence to improve work and that the next period requires the implementation of an information system for the management of defence cases, which would create assumptions for quality monitoring of the work and reporting on the work of the pravobranilaštvo's Office and improved work. If the new information system will help to make sure that the work is done safely, but also in reporting to the Parliamentary Assembly on the work of the pravobranilaštvo, then it would ask that these reports be much more appropriate, that concrete debate can be conducted around them, especially in the section relating to the construction of mechanisms that will allow the Ombudsman to deliver better results, i.e. to prevent errors, 32 institutions that can risk BiH's budget, for which it is said here, for one quarter. So, if you want us to be, to help, as Parliament to help the work of the D.A., then this must be much more explicit than it says in your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1839	So let me say it again. [[no microphone turned on]] Present 13 – for 7, versus 3, abstention 3. Federation of BiH – for 7, against no one, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 3. abstention 1. So we have a general, we don't have an entity majority, we have a point of alignment in the College. 38 We are going, therefore, to the ninth point. I suggest that the 9th point with the 74th raises the 10th point, because the conclusions are united, that we unite the debate and that one vote declare ourselves and I pray that we make that clear, therefore, that we conduct a united debate on points 9 and 10 with points 9 to 74. Let me get this straight. At present 13 — for 12, nobody, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – for 8, against no one, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. We have an entity and general majority. We're crossing, so point nine, Ad. Nine. Reports from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2019 Point 10. Ad. Ten. Annual audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02-16-9-1910/20 of 29. 09. 2020 I am opening a debate on this proposal, therefore, and I call, therefore, on my colleague Majkić to submit a report as president of the Commission, to bring together the 9th and 10th points, and to unite, therefore, the conclusions on points 9 and 10 so that they can be made known after this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1841	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague of mine, and we did a big job, and we did it on time, because before us, that job had to be done by the House of Representatives. What the results are, in fact, what the audit reports contain for 74 of the 75 institutions. Why do we have 75 institutions and 74 audits, that's the question of who we're just going to touch. There are institutions that don't allow the audit to approach, so institutions that haven't been able to make an audit report on their operations for years, that's the Intelligence and Security Agency. It's a big budget user, and the funds they use are classified. When, until then, the Parliamentary Assembly will tolerate one institution from allowing access to the audit, it is the matter and responsibility of this Parliament. The report itself, i.e. the summary opinion, is in itself complex and contains many reports, but several things I want to share with you. What the state of the audit found in 2019, 21 is a positive opinion, it is a purely positive opinion without a grudge as they would say. What does that mean? That's good, because in 2018 there were only 12, and in 2017 13, now 21, excellent. Now, but we have a second part called opinion, a positive opinion with a distraction, that's an opinion that can be problematic because it can be..., which is 44 institutions, can lead to the next time one of these 44 institutions, which the review has drawn attention to that something is happening, to slip into the reserve opinion, will have to make an effort not to do this 39, but it's often a case of a positive opinion with a distraction ending as an opinion with a reserve. As for the second part, these are opinions with a reserve and views with a distraction. The number of institutions that received an opinion with the reserve increased by three compared to the previous reporting year and even by five compared to 2017. This says that financial discipline in these institutions, therefore, is being reviewed for impact audits and financial audits, pardons, financial audits and conformity audits, and it is looking at each other individually, but what is the relationship between two institutions to get an opinion with the reserve, and seven get an opinion with a distraction, which some could easily conclude for some reason the audit will not give a negative opinion, and the only Office for the revision of BiH institutions does not give a negative opinion, entity reviszione institutions do not hesitate to give a negative opinion. From the beginning of the review, whether it was somewhere in 2000, to this day there was no opinion that was negative. It is a question that often, for many years, I am a member of this Commission and it was really hard to explain why it was happening. All institutions which are in one and the other and in the third status are listed here. The Commission was working the way it was adopted in 2008, because with the international organisation paid by the UK DFID, it is the Agency for International Development, we helped to come to a stage to discuss audit reports in this way. What does that mean, what's the greatest value? Public hearings of institutions that received an opinion with a reserve and an opinion with a distraction. So institutions need to explain why, why they do not respect the recommendations of the revision, why they do nothing for years to repeat the same recommendations and what they intend to do and plan to make the situation change in institutions. This year we also introduced a new standard, which is that given that the largest number of objections relate to the issue of employment, the issue of public procurement and the issue of internal controls, the three institutions accompanying this job are the Public Procurement Agency, the Central Harmonization Unit and the institutions, which I forgot, the Agency for the State Service. So they were with us during the hearing and they also negotiated with the institutions in terms of you need to do it and do it to improve the situation. So we had concrete logistics support as the Commission to get out of this problem as soon as possible. In the end we wrote in the composition of this Report, there are 17 systemic measures that would affect the removal of this kind of objections to the revision. If the Council of Ministers once decided to discuss the audit report and when a decision would be made to move the key things related to these systemic measures relating to all institutions, the issue of vehicle use, this is a matter which is repeated all the time, the question of employment, whether they can move from place to place, the anti-corruption strategy, the Public Procurement Act, if some of these main causes for this situation were removed in the audit, this would be significant progress and a significant reduction of audit recommendations. Finally, the Commission adopted individual opinions and summary opinions and was thus contained in this material that you have before you and adopted certain conclusions. So, I suggest that what makes up the part of voting practically on the summary opinion, which contains all these conclusions, and I'll read the conclusions. The first conclusion is: (a) The House of People accepts 74 reports of the financial audit of BiH institutions of which 65 reports of the financial audit of BiH institutions whose financial operations have been assessed by the 40 auditors' "positive opinion" and "positive opinion with a distraction", which makes up Annex 1. A summary opinion. b) Nine reports of the financial audit of the BiH institutions whose financial operations have been assessed by the auditor's "reservation thinking" and "absorbing reserve thinking", that is, Annex 2. The summary opinion, from point 2.1 to point 2.9., means seven individual opinions for institutions to which this applies and c) Opinion on the Annual Audit Report on main findings and recommendations for 2019, Annex 2. The summary opinion of point 2.10 is this tenth point proposed by the chairman to join together with the other audit reports. The second conclusion is that the People's House commits the leadership of 44 BiH institutions, whose financial operations in 2019 were assessed by an auditor's "positive opinion with a distraction", that is, to take all necessary measures from the competence of each institution in particular to avoid further consequences of the phenomenon which the audit drew attention to in the emphasis on positive opinions, and in particular that such audit findings do not become more difficult to qualify. Under three: The People's House adopts the Commission's proposed conclusions for nine institutions, so each of the institutions who had an opinion with a reserve and an opinion with a distraction, has its own conclusions, which are contained in this material, whose audit reports on financial operations for 2019 were subject to a detailed commission analysis, i.e. from 2.1 to 2.9. and the People's House adopts Opinion on the Annual Audit report on the main findings and recommendations for 2019, Annex 2. Summary of opinion, Annex 2.10. The Home of the People asks the Council of Ministers to consider audit reports for 2019 at the latest by 31 March 2021 and now concerns all these institutions that have received an opinion with a reserve and opinion with a distraction. So these are the conclusions that should be followed, and these are the main recommendations that should, at least when it comes to this part that I've listed for you, that if the issue of what system measures are solved, BiH institutions will have much better results. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1842	I thank my colleague, Majkić. The word was requested by counterpart Denis Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1843	For the sake of possible follow-up to today's meeting of the House of Peoples, it should be said that today is January 12th 2021, and that this is the mass of financial audit reports from 2019. I think the concept of such a agenda and these reports today from 2019 is, first of all, the financing of some work. Nothing serious is done here, and that should be said very clearly. There are no points of the agenda here today dedicated to the migrant crisis, there is no point of agenda 41 dedicated to vaccination, the only state in the region. There are no laws, no BiH budgets for 2021 or in sight. How to judge it in one sentence: the earth burns; but the power is combed. Now look at these audit reports, I think that here you should be self-critical about this material and these materials, and not the way Mrs. Majkić tried it, because here are listed, among other things, and the reasons that lead to systemic and essential problems. And what are the systemic problems that we need to talk about and which should be addressed? See what the Audit Office said, therefore, in its letter of 31.08.2020, among other things, as a problem of systemic character, and at point 1 literally stands – The financing of BiH institutions throughout 2019 has been carried out through decisions on temporary financing, underlining, such untimely adoption of the budget with significant weaknesses is an additional burden on institutions and significantly increases the risk of inefficient and ineffective business, it is necessary that all BiH institutions participating in the process of proposing and adopting budgets consistently respect legal procedures and deadlines for the adoption of the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions. Look, this is the 2019 score, and here I am asking publicly – does anyone think that it will be a different assessment for 2020, what do you think will be a different assessment of the Office of Audit for this year 2021, does anyone see BiH's budget for 2021 in such complex global and domestic circumstances and in view of that it will come into parliamentary procedure? And that's what people warn about. Where's the 2021 budget? I was trying on the Finance and Budget Commission to ask for such information, but it didn't even go through. We do well with this revision, this Office for Auditing what the House of Peoples is, what is the House of Representatives, what is the Council of Ministers, and what is the Presidency of BiH. These, who make such obstructions in such complex conditions, have no, believe me, no credibility, no lessons to teach anyone. If the situation were right here, we'd go first from ourselves, from this home, and everyone would wonder what's wrong with the budget, so they would remove these systemic problems, and they wouldn't perform like this, teach some other lesson for the unofficial, and do nothing where your direct jurisdiction is. That kind of policy can't be innate to any good.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1844	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1845	So, first the House of Peoples works after that when the House of Representatives ended, the House of Representatives recently ended, so I think after that there was only one session, this session yesterday. So we couldn't put it on the agenda until the House of Representatives finished and they ended up and then there was work on us. The second thing, I do not decide by my will and desire to like the opinion that the Commission delivers to the House for adoption, it is defined by the Guidelines, I told you earlier that we were working with the help of the British organisation DFID and that thanks to them we came into a position that this way of considering the report does not have any parliament in the environment. That is an example, I am thinking at a meeting in an EU organisation explaining how it is done and many have a desire to copy that method. And now to say that I am inventing and making up some reports according to my own opinion is irresponsible, talking about political matters on something that is an economic category and not respecting the recommendations of the audit as Parliament's first partner is irresponsible and irresponsible. So,... for every thing that is written here, I bear the Commission's 42 responsibility for what they wrote, and I think that each of the members of the Commission can defend it, except Denis Bećirović, who had the only desire to bring this down at yesterday's session so that things wouldn't happen at all, and dom wouldn't hold his session today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1846	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, counterpart Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1847	Well, Mrs. Majkić has a need for this kind of discussion to be unnecessarily personalized, this is about the exchange of facts and arguments, nothing to you, therefore, in my mind, it stands in this summary opinion, every word, every point, all of it, Mrs. Majkić stands. We have a problem with not having the BiH budget and you know that this problem and how it is caused by the people who are blocking this country. Unfortunately, you're complicit in this and very active. That is why I asked you several times at the Finance and Budget Commission's meeting to adopt even a very well-intentioned conclusion, that is to ask for inflation, because we are the committee responsible, where the budget for 2021 is, who violates the rules of procedure and the laws that prescribe it, and you voted against it. Well, isn't it in your best interest to know where the problem is with these findings from the Bureau of Auditors? Here we don't judge anyone in advance, we're only looking for reliable, relevant information according to the laws that regulate it, where is the budget for 2021? This year, if we never did, we had to bring these in time, precisely because of this crisis situation. And you don't care, you're talking about some fictional stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1848	Nobody's answering any more. I'm closing the debate. Now we will plead, therefore, on point 9. The Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions and the Financial Audit of BiH Institutions for 2019 with sub-points 9 to 74, therefore, with recommendations and the Commission's conclusions. And point 10, which also reads – Annual Audit report on main findings and recommendations for 2019, submitted by the Office for the Audit of Institutions. So we adopt the Report, the recommendations and therefore the Commission's recommendations for finance and the budget. Please vote. So, dock 15 - for 11, versus 11, abstention 3. Federation of BiH – 7 against 1st, abstention 2. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstention 1. I therefore Konstatuj that we adopted the Report of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office for the financial audit of BiH institutions for 2019, from 9th to 74th, including 74th with recommendations and the Annual Audit report on the main findings and recommendations for the 2019 Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions. 43 We now move to point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the awarded ongoing grant "Cofinancing of NGOs projects in the area of HIV prevention and tuberculosis in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01.02,03-50-18-1498/19 of 20. Eight. 2019 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House, the Commission adopted the Report. I give my word to Mrs. Majkić, if there is any need as chairman of the Commission. No, thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and has needs. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Report on the awarded ongoing grant "Co-financing of NGOs projects in the area of HIV prevention and tuberculosis in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018. So present 15 – for 14, against no one, backed up 1. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstention 1. We have a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the awarded ongoing grant "Co-financing of NGOs projects in the area of HIV prevention and tuberculosis in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018 has been adopted. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Report on the dedicated spending of grant funds in the field of science and culture for 2018, applicant: BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-1349/19 of 31. Seventy-seven. 2019
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1853	I thank the commission that supported this proposal. We often forget in BiH some of the big political topics that there are other topics that are existential to people in our country. One of those topics is this law that I propose, therefore, the Water Protection Act for human consumption. Water is undoubtedly one of the biggest natural resources in BiH, a resource of the future, and we should all take care of it, but also pass appropriate laws as well as how to preserve it for future generations. Look, let's say, what's been going on in the last few days around Visegrad on the Drina River, it's a natural disaster for all of BiH. Similar scenes are repeated on other rivers in BiH, it is impossible to protect water in this country by hitting the water streams of entity, cantonal and I don't know which borders, we need to coordinate in this area that the EU, it is waiting for us in the future sooner or later, and it is better to do so as soon as possible for young people, for the sake of new generations. This Law therefore needs to regulate the health properness of water for human consumption. It is up to the competent authorities to implement it, and ultimately there are three precise EU directives dealing with the issue. I therefore suggested that the BiH Council of Ministers have one decent six-month deadline to prepare and refer this law to parliamentary procedure. People are massingly leaving BiH because they see that in the authorities, those in charge and in charge are not dealing with life's problems. Here's an opportunity that has no entity, national, ethnic, religious, no omen, here's a chance to show good will, to help future generations, equal to all in BiH, because it's in our common interest. So I suggest, once again, that we support this proposal, because it is, I repeat, beneficial for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1854	..... I suggest we make a statement about the initiative of colleagues Bećirović. [[no microphone turned on]] Let's vote. So present 15 – for 6, versus 8, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4, abstention 1. So there's no general, no entity majority. I find that Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative has not been adopted. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, to provide a full analysis of the established parallel ties between the Republic of Serbia and the Bosnian Serb entity within 45 days of the adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with special reference to respect for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No. 02-50-6-2040/20 of 15. Ten. 2020 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Komsija did not support this initiative. 46 I give the word to Bariša Čolak, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, if need be. No, thank you. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative. There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? He's not answering, and for his word, here's your proposal, my colleague Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1856	Col. Munib Jusufović comments on the purpose of action when we have people who vote against even protecting water for human consumption. Ha, we only have two choices here, one is to sleep, to do nothing and watch it run. And the second is to fight, to propose, and people to watch who votes and how they vote. I will always be a supporter of this second approach, I will propose, I will fight, I want to tell myself what I could do, and everyone is responsible. The current proposal is on the agenda to get information in the state parliament for the first time in 25 years on the content of parallel links between the Republic of Serbia and bh. An entity of the RS. In line with the BiH Constitution, where it is clearly said that these ties must be harmonised and fully, therefore, in line with the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of BiH. It would be logical that when it comes to these parallel ties that no one has to hide anything about it, if everything is in accordance with the Constitution, with the Dayton Peace Agreement, what is the problem with the BiH Council of Ministers preparing such an analysis and delivering it to us. Otherwise, it will be sent a message that there is something hidden, that there is something problematic and that someone is afraid to present this thing here in the state parliament. We'll see what kind of vote this is going to be, I won't say a lot of things before I see no formal vote, because I have no intention of stopping this issue with this point of the agenda, and there's also how the delegate options and forms of how we're going to react in case this proposal doesn't go through, and he's correct, give an analysis, here's the Council of Ministers, Tegeltija and the others, to see what the content of it is, and if you're afraid of it, that's another thing. A lot of things have been started, there's this wave of change in BiH, whether we want it or not, a lot of things we're going to review, it's not going to go like this anymore, Dejton isn't meant to crash BiH, there's not even a mark that allows someone, and some of them are going in that direction, and now it's going to stop slowly. So I kind of pointed out this question in October last year, today and formally I want to see what the relationship to that proposal is, but don't worry, I'm not stopping this question. It's too important for it to just go the way it's been going so far, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1857	I regret Mr. Bećirović. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1858	So, in order for the Council of Ministers to do the analysis that you're looking for, you'd have to get our support before, and here I could bet they won't get it. Secondly, you have to start thinking when you form this many of these initiatives that these initiatives should also get all the support. However, your strength is insufficient, you must have a larger 47 results in the elections, have more power of the political party from which you come in order to be able to realise your interests, not even enough for you that the SDA usually supports you, so the SDA never comes out with its proposals, but supports every... initiative, because it knows that no one in the SDA can come up with such initiatives as you suggest. What they're meant for, so you know that they, none of your initiatives can go through, you know it and there's no force, so not only can't you come, get to the Council of Ministers, you can't reach your colleagues in the House of Peoples. So, and this information says that you're not interested in the initiative, it's in your interest to be politically visible, media-occupied, and to be told about you, here's the main news of what you said you were going to set up, I don't know, in Dodik's backyard, I don't know what you're saying. What's that for, what's that for? Nor have I heard that at some point in the agenda you have prepared well, so you have made correct suggestions, but that is all against the interests of Republika Srpska, against all of us here, so leave yourselves to the impasses of business, because you cannot, let it be worth the political power you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1859	... Majkić. counterpart Denis Bećirović, as far as I can see, is correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1860	...relevantly what I'm talking about, Majkić, is best confirmed by the previous vote, she even estimated that if we passed the Water Protection Act for Human Consumption, it would be very harmful.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1861	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1862	I, Drina flows, Bosnia, Una, Sana, all of them flow, whether through one entity, they don't flow through both, they're not waterways that have a wider character than the BiH state, that's your example. But only the strength here and in the House of Nations must be in force of the arguments, may not have enough hands, there is not that kind of power, but it has the strength of the arguments and will be heard in this House and will be spoken of and presented to our friends in the West.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1863	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1864	And with common forces, we're going to try to do something that's better than what we have today, which is, I repeat, in the interest of all people. Just because you, first of all, come on a little culture, means, while you're talking, I'm listening to you, and you listen, so I don't call the chairman what you're not already being warned about. I don't know why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1865	48 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1866	I don't have any prejudice against people who belong to any political party here, and I would honestly like you to propose once something that is beneficial to this country, and I will vote for it. I won't say, that's what Dušanka Majkić suggested, so I'm against it. Therefore, colleagues from any party, independent, whenever they suggest useful things, I will support and so on, uh, and the good part of the people here is not about whether or not someone from the SDP, SBB, from the SDA, is from any other party, but from what is proposed. So, the accent on the content, not the label, Mrs. Majkić, but you don't understand. So I want to tell you very clearly, regardless of the outcome of this point, we're going to open this issue of parallel relationships. I go in line, first I want to see if the Council of Ministers can do it, and how I have something to say about the content of it and with a very serious argument. But unfortunately, what I have to say is neither in line with Dejton nor the Constitution of BiH, and we'll talk about it, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1867	Thank you. Nobody's answering any more. We're closing the debate. Let's go get out about, we're voting on Mr. Denis Bećirović's delegate initiative. Let's vote. Present 14 - for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4 abstentioned no one. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. I understand that Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative has not been accepted. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative tasked the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples with the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare this initiative within six months of the date of adoption and to refer the genocide prevention strategy to the parliamentary procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-50-6-2227/20 of 18. 11. 2020 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission did not support this initiative. I give the word to Bariša Čolak, chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if necessary. No, thank you very much. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative. Comrade Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1869	The prevention of genocide is an important issue of our civilization, not only of our BiH states, all democratic and civilised states should strive never to repeat such evil again and again, especially in BiH, we have an obligation to work to prevent genocide in our country and this is in the 49 direct interest of all both peoples and citizens in BiH. And why am I proposing this? Because, unfortunately, genocide is repeated, the ideologies of evil and hatred are not only the past, but unfortunately the present and in our interest to act effectively and prevent such things, because it is very important for all people in this country to have a sense of security, not to leave this country, not to take children just because they think that evil can be repeated again and we need to send them such a message. Unfortunately, the causes and phenomena that led to genocide continue to exist and threats in BiH, and it is not only July 11th or the eve of July 11th the time when this topic should be discussed, every day of the year we should think and offer new solutions to this. And watch out for genocide, which has been ruled by international judgments, as it has come. By having someone decide first to discredit and block state institutions, aren't we in some shape today? This occurred after someone reached for anti-constitutional activities, and we see it in the last five years that it has been going seriously in that direction. The genocide occurs when you go with a policy of discrediting and blacking another, different other people, it becomes a more dangerous phenomenon precisely in BiH in recent years. The genocide occurs when you put targets on people's heads, just because they're other religions or nations, it's happening in BiH lately, more and more. Genocide occurs when you have in the neighborhood of a country that is armed to the teeth, and when you weaken the Armed Forces of BiH. The genocide occurs when you have an uninterrupted special war against BiH, which continues in the media, psychologically, diplomatically and in other ways. We don't even ignore the role of the so-called. intellectual elites, which hyper-produces books of anti-bossan character and, of course, do not forget the permissive attitude of the international community towards the extremes in BiH, are also a very serious topic and the thesis that makes BiH citizens, specifically Bošnjak pay an extremely high price, but unfortunately all these things are repeated. That's why our choice is either to prevent crimes and genocide, to raise young generations in the spirit of tolerance and mutual respect, or someone doesn't want to prevent it, but to go that way and this vote here and the stenogram from this session are a kind of clear message.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-01-12-0.u1870	I thank my colleague Bećirović. No Niko's answered the word. I'm closing the debate. Let's go get out about the initiative of counterpart Denis Bećirović. So there's 14 -- for 6, versus 8, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- six against four, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 4 abstentioned no one. We don't have a general, we don't have an entity majority. I understand that this initiative by colleagues Bećirović has not been adopted. On the agenda, there is still agreement on ratification of agreements and amendments and agreements, and I propose that we bring together a debate and a statement on points 16 to 19 of the agenda, including item 19, but we have to make that clear. Who's in? So, dock 14 - for 13, against no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – for 9, against no one, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. We have a general, we have an entity majority. 50 Points 16 through 19. Ad. 16. - Ad. 19. Ratification of the Agreement, Amendments and Contracts And so, we are now pleading for ratification of the agreement and amendments to the contracts from points 16 to 19, including point 19. Let's vote. So present 14 – for 14, against no one, abstentioned no one. The Federation of BiH -- for 10, against no one, abstentioned no one. Republika Srpska – for 4 against no one, abstentioned no one. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that we have ratified the agreements and amendments from points 16 to 19, including point 19, and thus obtained the conditions to conclude the 14th session. The date of the 15th session will be given in time. I thank all the delegates for their work. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:51 p.m.
