ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9755	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I am opening the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from the session was justified by representatives: Enver Bijedić, Ljubica Miljanović, Aida Baručija, Jakov Galić and Mirsad Kukić. Deputy Minister, Mr. Nedeljko Jović also sent a notice that he could not attend the session. At this point, there are 32 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Zukan Helez BiH Civil Affairs Minister Branislav Borenović to the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Damir Arnaut to the BiH sigurnost ministar; Edita Đapo to the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Nermin Nikšić to the chairman of the BiH Council and jasmin Emrić to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic sent an announcement to ask a oral question to the minister of justice but subsequently withdrew the announcement. These announcements were submitted, in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that direct TV transmission and radio transmission of this part of the session are ensured in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to counsel Zukan Helez. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9756	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, co-chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question is addressed to Minister Ankica Gudeljević and what about us brings us back to our everyday life, to the field of our problems, moving us away from this play that we have today and which serve us those who are, are, are, in power. It reads – How many first-graders were enrolled, or registered for enrolment, in the first grade of primary school this year in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 2 I will only at the beginning, at this moment, say that so far in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the war, this, closed 500 schools, which are areas, which are central, written from citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina over 100,000 people, and from '13. About 600,000 people have left this country by now. And I'd like to ask the Minister if she has an answer, is there any strategy, is there an operational plan to stop this cataclysm?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9757	Thank you very much. Answer, BiH Civil Affairs Minister Mrs Ankica Gudeljević. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9758	Honorable members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Dear Mr. Elez, in the context of the asked question above all, I would like to stress that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has data on the number of students enrolled in primary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina published in reports from the BiH Statistics Agency, which collects data from entity statistical institutions and the Department of Statistics in the Brcko District Government. On your question about the number of students enrolled in the first grade of primary cars in the period 2013 to date I can inform you, by school years the following is: school year 2013-2014. is registered 32,038 students, school year 2014.-'15. – 33,623 students, and 2015-'16. there were 33.304 enrolled students. Number of students enrolled in first grade primary schools in 2016-'17. The year was 32,480, 2017-2018 was 31,198, in 2018-'19. - 30.782, while in 2019-'20. The year was 29,228 students. In the current school year of '20-21, according to preliminary data, since the final data of the BiH Statistics Agency is published at the end of September or October, the number of students enrolled in the first grade primary schools is 28.549. Therefore, during that eight-year period, there is a reduction in the number of students enrolled in the first grade primary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which for the period from 2013 to today is 3,489 less enrolled in primary schools.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9759	Thank you, Minister. Whether the representative wants to comment on the answer. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9760	I thank the chairman. Look, when we go to the doctor, he's looking for what's causing our disease. I'll try to tell you what's causing this student reduction. It is the first terrible natural decline of birth or birth in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second is a large emigration current or a line that, the population, leaves Bosnia and Herzegovina. I've chosen three areas. First I'm going to say the entity of Republika Srpska, and I deliberately chose three ethnically different areas. In Republika Srpska immediately after the war, the number of deaths was more than 1,300, 2019, the number of born in Republika Srpska entity, here is the exact data, so this is all official data, 9.274, and the number of deaths 15.081, which means that more deaths than those born in Republika Srpska in 2019 are 5.814. Every year to the Republic The population emigrated, and when we add these about six and a few thousand, that's about three or thirty thousand. [[representative is warned on time]] At this pace, Republika Srpska will be left without a population for 30 years. Canton number 10. In Canton 10, it means '19. 307 newborn children were born in the year, and 888 died. So 587 was more dead than born. 60 days in six municipalities of Lebanon Canton, no child was born on that canton. And the UN-San canton has gone for 15,000 people a year in the last two years. At this rate Canton has 270,000 people, at this rate... [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9761	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9762	Let me finish, I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9763	Please hold your business hours. We have to do the same thing to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9764	If it is, here's just a sentence, so if it's at this rate it's leaving in 18 years, no one's gonna live there. Let me remind you, this country leaves eight people every hour. I want to warn those who are in power and us, and the opposition, and the whole public, so today as we sit here, we sit, if we sit for 8 hours 64 people will leave this country. It means this much about visually that you know how many of us are now in the O.R. so many people will be less in Bosnia and Herzegovina tomorrow. So I invite you to get serious and who wants a secession, who wants a war to sanction them. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9765	Please, counsel. I ask all other MPs to abide by the Rules of Procedure and the times given to them both in this and at all other points of the agenda. I give my word to Agent Branislav Borenović. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9766	Thank you. My questions are the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Tegeltija, which I do not agree with in many things, but I consider him, above all, a serious man and therefore I ask him this question. ... for a few days we have witnessed again stories about some non-paper, again we hear stories about disunity, referendums, wars, conflicts, tensions, and even one of the leaders of this coalition of yours, whose head of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Izetbegović calls my people genocide and therefore I am interested in your position, your knowledge. Because I have a feeling that for days we've been wasting time on stories that drag us off of the key topics that you've been facing this country since the vaccination, we've heard a story about how many fewer first-graders are in primary schools, an affair about respirators, a number of responsibilities at unfavourable interest rates. And that's why it would be four good to hear your findings. If there is indeed some agreement between the SNSD, the SDA and the HDZ as three key parties led by the Council of Ministers, if there is any..., give a peaceful or restless solution to it. Whether the Council of Ministers has certain knowledge, a certain strategy and give it here to this Parliament to make a statement, that we are not really wasting any more time. There are so many problems in this country that are waiting to be solved instead of listening, here, for days, for weeks now, something that has burdened all the people living in this country, and in the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH. It would be good to hear your position as the chairman of the Council of Ministers on all these things that have been present for the last few days in two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9767	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9768	Madam Chairman, College members, Members of Parliament, Media representatives, fellow ministers. I am a man in serious years and I do not deal with imaginary papers, I do not make any statements that will in any way create any doubt in the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not part of those flammable stories and rhetoric. That's how I act as a citizen of this country, and that's how I act as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. On the agenda of the Council of Ministers there are no topics on which... any word, the Council of Ministers is trying to deal with the basic life problems of citizens. I, too, am also experiencing the Council of Ministers, as a place where citizens' problems are solved, and these difficult political issues that are announced in this way and that way are not their place in the Council of Ministers and will not be while I am chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9769	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9770	Well, of course, I, like you, and most of the people sitting in this House, and I am convinced 99.9% of citizens, are serious people who are interested in the future and progress in these areas. It's also very difficult for me to imagine that the leaders of your coalition are talking about wars, conflicts and tensions, and knowing that one of them spent the war in the vault and the other in Ronhill. And it's hard for us to imagine them in some military uniforms, but unfortunately they talk about it. And that's why it was very important for us to hear your position as the chairman of the Council of Ministers to put an end to meaningless stories that create enormous problems and distract, I repeat once again, people's attention, but also you and all those who have an obligation to work responsibly... life problems faced by all the peoples and all the people in this country, whether they are in Republika Srpska or in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9771	Thank you, corporal. 5 I give the word of counsel to Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9772	Thank you, Chairman. The issue is for the BiH Security Minister. In particular, why are police agencies making false claims on several occasions when it comes to the privileges of top Bosnian-Herzegovina officials? In particular, why the Police Body Coordination Directorate claims, officially in a public statement, that persons who specifically protect themselves cannot give up the escort. It is an absolute lie, not based on any act, and we know from numerous examples in this House, in the past meeting when the members of the Džaferović kolegij and Bosić gave up their escorts, in this council of ministers' meeting I should commend Mr Vojin Mitrović for giving up those escorts. So why does the Police Body Coordination Directorate literally say that Minister Turković does not have the right to give up his escorts? Also, why the border police persistently refuse to provide data that some 100 of the most ranked officials, members of the presidency, MPs and delegates in Parliament, ministers and deputies have crossed the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina over the past five years with travel documents and ID cards from other countries. The border police have this data and it is even mandatory to write misapplications to any BH citizen who crosses Bosnia and Herzegovina with a foreign road crossing, but the border police are doing this exclusively to our diaspora, not doing these top officials who use travel documents mostly neighbouring countries to cross our state border, and carry the diplomatic passports of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's particularly worrying about here is why police agencies who have an obligation to provide physical protection think it's their job to provide some sort of... protection to these otherwise privileged officials. So, a question for the Minister of Security, given that he announced his absence and the deputy, I ask that it be delivered to me in writing, unless they showed up in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9773	Thank you, counsel. Since the Minister of Security is here, will he give an answer or will he, according to the request of the MPs... Minister of Security, Mr. Cikotić, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9774	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Chairman, members of the College, MPs in the House, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard this question, I do not think that at this point I can give a concrete answer because the directors of the police agencies, to whom the honourable representative refers, independently in his work, are within the Council of Ministers, but I will convey these questions and deliver a written reply at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9775	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Security. 6 Advocacy comment, whether a representative wants to.? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9776	Thank you, Chairman. You see, directors of police agencies and police agencies, that's what the Minister of Security should know, are independent when it comes to operational work. This is about delivering true or false information to the public and providing answers to parliamentary questions. If we stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, any MP who wishes to ask a question to anyone below the level of the minister is obliged to do so through the competent minister. Therefore, you are Ministers to this House responsible if anyone, who is under your authority, does not provide answers to parliamentary questions. So you know very well the difference between operational independence and what your job is. Your job, among other things, is to make a budget for these police agencies, and you have a number of other obligations when it comes to police agencies. The only place you can't interfere is operational work. It doesn't, operational work has nothing to do with whether someone is giving true or false information to the public, whether someone is responding or not to the MP. questions. [[representative is warned on time]] Therefore, I ask you to ensure that these answers are delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9777	Thank you. The word for the next parliamentary question is I'm giving MPs to Editi Đapo. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9778	Thank you, esteemed chairman. My respects to you co-chairing, fellow Members and fellow Members, as well as members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, and viewers, of course, who follow us with small screens. In fact, we were able to follow through the media the agony that has lasted for years and through which the Union of State-level Police Officers is also going through, trying to establish a social dialogue with the Council of Ministers. In fact, state-level police officers have long sought and fought to improve working conditions as well as to increase incomes that are extremely small compared to the size and weight of the work they are doing. Employees with medium professional training in Bosnia and Herzegovina's police authorities work for a salary of 660 marks, and if they have a police allowance, it's about 800 marks. According to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Payments Act, police officers and employees have neither child allowance nor education, nor even insurance against the consequences of an accident, do not have systematic checks even though they carry weapons, they do not have the right to account for pensions as well as any other police officers in the state. Despite insufficient human capacities, border police officers, SIPA, Police Authorities Coordination Directorates, Foreign Offices contribute daily to preventing illegal migration, human and object security, the fight against organised and cross-border crime, and many others, whether or not the most serious crimes. However, their incomes are lower than their counterparts at lower levels of government, or compared to the Federal MuP or police officers from the Republika Srpska MUP, or even the canton, which is naturally dimming and encourages a high-quality shot out of the state level. 7 In this sense, my question is for the chairman and I am interested – what activities have been taken by the BiH Council of Ministers when it comes to increasing the personal income of police officers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, knowing that they are currently the worst paid, and performing very responsible tasks and tasks, especially those of the BiH Prosecutor's Office? [[Advocacy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9779	Thank you very much. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9780	Thank you very much. I say there are many more people in the Trade Union in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina than they are employed in police agencies and all of them have their own unions, or each of them has its own union. And what we've done and what we've done is we've established contacts and communication with trade unions in which, in agreement with the Police Union, we have done one working group consisting of representatives of three ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and three union representatives,... union presidents, including the presidents of police and security agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The basic problem that is now being put before the police, when it comes to staffing everyone in the institutions, is the fact that employees are twice the base of wages, on two occasions, and that no correction has ever been made... more, although there have been some announcements. In its first budget for 2020, the Council of Ministers set out a budget envisioning an increase in the base of salaries for all Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. You remember that it was the great time of the start of the pandemic, the BiH presidency has returned the budget to work and has requested that funds be planned to fight COVID and that they remain at the same level. What are the problems when it comes to employee salaries is that the pay fund is not small, but that the salaries, how can I say, are unfairly divided. From one side's point of view you have one relatively small number of people who have very high wages, the lowest ranks have low wages. On the other hand, those with the highest wages receive even stimulation, and by the way, there are many working groups in which they are additionally paid. What has been agreed with the unions that they will, together with the members, prepare the representatives of the ministries for everything they think is necessary to change, and in the system of employee salaries and all that... their working-law status and the proposal for what we need to do will come to the Council of Ministers and then we will analyse all the legal solutions that need to be changed in order to make more order and more justice in salaries when they are employed in institutions. Let me just tell you what it looks like. When you correct something less than 5% you have a situation that someone will get a few hundred marks of salary increase, and the lowest-ranked officials will get 20, 30, no more than 50 KM. Therefore, we work together with police officers, with other employees to amend legal solutions that will introduce more order when it comes to salaries employed in institutions. And, of course, what I'm saying is that we've provided additional employment funds for police agencies, that I'm not wasting my time on it now, both in the Border Police and in the SIPA. Just with their demands, we've provided them with funds for capital investment, supply of equipment and what they've asked us to do. I believe that a significant 8 change in the wage system in the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be made because on the one hand we have an extremely high salary, a small number of people sincerely speaking, and on the other hand we have underrated some salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9781	Thank you very much, President. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9782	Thank you, Chairman. It encourages that you have established a dialogue with the unions, but it does not encourage the fact that time is running, and we are all aware of the injustices between salaries that exist at the state level, especially towards people who, as people say, put their heads in their bags to ensure that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a better place and a safer place for the lives of all its inhabitants. I hope the chairman of the departments, the three departments you've assigned, and that as soon as possible you will correct this injustice against the police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9783	Thank you very much. I give my word to Agent Nermin Nikšić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9784	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My question is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I'll understand if he needs to serve in writing answers. Namely, in accordance with Article 17. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina is responsible for the taking of an entire range of operational measures and activities in an accident, when this situation is declared either in part of Bosnia and Herzegovina or throughout the territory of the state, and the activities are the coordination of activities in the protection and rescue of entities and bodies and the Brcko District and institutions and bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the coordination of reception and the provision of international assistance and donations in the protection and rescue of natural and other accidents following the declaration of the state of natural and other accidents and the coordination of activities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the implementation of prevention and preparedness measures for natural or other disasters under the prescribed competences and coordination of those with entities and Brcko District. Since we agents, not even the public, would have cancer, we have no information about the action of this crucial body at the time of the pandemic of the COVID-19 virus. I would ask for answers to the following questions: – What is the current composition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Coordination Body for Protection and Rescue, how many meetings have been held in the last year, and what decisions have been taken and taken by this body in the last year to reduce the negative consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic on Bosnia and Herzegovina territory? 9 It is clear to me that it is quite possible for the chairman to have no answer to this at this time, so I will understand if he will be in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9785	Thank you very much. The answer, chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9786	Thank you very much. Just as Ambassador Nikšić said, the Coordination Body is formed under the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue. The first coordination body was formed in 2016. The composition of the Coordination Body has been defined, as I say, functionally represented by the relevant institutions and then the situation is that people change jobs, leave, come, come appointments, resolves. And for this reason it was necessary to make a correction, already in 2017, the composition of the Coordination Body, after that and in 2020. This Coordination Body was probably unknown to many in Bosnia and Herzegovina but it was recognised in public in early 2020 with the appearance of a pandemic. And this was the first Coordination Body to work and coordinate activities on the occurrence of the COVID pandemic, especially in the part where co-operation with the border police of neighbouring countries is involved, to accept the first humanitarian aid related to the fight against COVID and so on. The truth was that we did not have a full Council of Ministers at the time, then one minister and deputy minister were not elected, and the Deputy Minister of Security performs this function according to the function. The coordination body continued all the time after that to work, performs its role both in accepting and assisting, in the distribution and all that is in its jurisdiction. All these details about the number of sessions, exactly who is now in the Coordination Body, of course, we will prepare through the Ministry of Security, and then we will deliver you in writing through the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9787	Thank you, Chairman. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? No, I don't. Thanks a lot. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9788	I thank the Honorable Chairman. At the last session of this distinguished House, a conclusion was reached asking the BiH Council of Ministers to hold for the first regular session of the House of Representatives, i.e. for today's session, provide information on the implementation of point 4. Declarations inviting the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union on the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, the adoption of a special law on the sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the launch of legal procedures before international judicial institutions, such as 10 and the Information on all the activities and events launched in connection with the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers' declaration. How am I not on the agenda today asking the requested information asking the chairman of the Council of Ministers – why has the Council of Ministers not provided the information required by the above-mentioned House of Representatives' conclusion of 30.03.2021, i.e. the real reasons for denying to the House of Representatives timely information on the work and treatment of the Council of Ministers of BiH with regard to the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea and the exercise of the right of free access to the open sea, and which right belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9789	Thank you, counsel. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Zoran Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9790	Thank you very much. I understand enthusiasm and support MP Emrić's deadlines in force, but I really ask you to understand that these are not real deadlines and that they could not be met within such short notice. From the moment the conclusion is delivered to the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives, it really takes someone to pass the time. At the first regular meeting of the Council of Ministers held on April 15th on obtaining a conclusion from this House, the Council of Ministers tasked the Foreign Ministry with preparing information for the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The foreign ministry has informed us that it has not been able to prepare information in such a short time period and so many of the demands that exist in this parliamentary initiative. I can certainly tell you that this Council of Ministers in no way wishes to deny any information to this House or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. As soon as it is..., they collect all the necessary information from the Presidency, the Foreign Ministry will deliver it to the Council of Ministers, and we will forward it to the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9791	Thank you very much, President. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9792	I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for their response. And, I can kind of understand this reason that it is a short time to deliver complete information to the House of Representatives, but I must also remind myself that the Declaration was adopted a few years ago, that the competent institutions were obliged to inform this distinguished House in due time about all the activities. Since there has been no information so far, I am not only burdening this Council of Ministers' Assembly, but there was no timely information in the previous session on the implementation of the Declaration and other activities concerning the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign rights at sea. However, I have to take this opportunity to remind myself that until 11 official completion of the work on the construction of the Pelješko Bridge remains 88 days and when the Chinese wall will close the territorial sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of a very short deadline in which it is still possible to reach a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Croatia for the free access of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the open sea, I am taking the opportunity to call again the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the competent Minister of Communications and Transport to urgently engage and put this issue into practice, and finally launch concrete activities to protect the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9793	Thank you very much for your representative. With this, we've exhausted the oral question. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As far as the agenda changes are concerned, I would like to mention the following: Point 5 is added to the agenda. The request of MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Point 6. The request of MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Point 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement on the grant of grants between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the Regional Housing Management Programme and on the sixth sub-project under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Housing Management Project. On the previous agenda, they were removed: Point 10. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the Club of the DF in the first reading, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the Committee for Finance and Budget, who requested from the College of the House an extension of the deadline for the delivery of opinions. The college approved an extension to 30 days. Point 22. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for November 2020, applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH. It refers to the realization of the conclusion from the 16th session of the House of Representatives held on 03.02.2021 at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. They are supplemented: Point 9. Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. 12 Point 10. Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Point 11. Proposed law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office, the promoter: representatives of the DF Club with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. These opinions are negative. The commission did not accept the harmonisation of the bill with the BiH Constitution and the legal system and did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Safet Softić called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9794	Dear guests, I welcome all present in the O.R., and those who practice the post I wish they could fast it today. I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, propose that the addition of the agenda be made, this session today, the 19th session of the House of Representatives, with a point that reads – The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people from the Commission's ranking list for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH No: 01-34-1-915/21, since 28.04.2021. Namely, you know that Mr Nebojša Radmanović, Mrs Borjana Krišto and I have been appointed to this Commission. Yesterday, in the late afternoon hours, we finished an interview with the candidates who were registered to this competition. We've established a ranking list and I think because of the importance of this issue, it makes sense that today we put it on the agenda and end this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9795	Thank you very much, Agent Softić. Nenad Nešić. Here you go, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9796	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I propose a new item of the agenda under regular number 13. – Declaration condemning the hate speech of former member of the BiH presidency, deputy chairman of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and SDA leader Bakir Izetbegović. The text of the Declaration has been prepared and I ask the services to share it. What is the purpose of this Declaration? The aim of this Declaration is to send a clear message to the troubled citizens here today that they should not fear, that most political party representatives do not support conflicts and condemn every hate speech. I know what I'm saying to many of the Bosniak people right now is not happy to listen, but I think this would be a major step towards showing just the political representatives of the Bosniak people that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a possible state. So I invite you here today to publicly condemn all those who call for war, conflict, violence, to make it clear that war, conflict, violence, do not live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe this sends a message of co-existence, normal life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It struck me very hard the other day when my friend Bošnjak asked me – my friend, if we are going to a new war and if we should move from Bosnia and Herzegovina. We really need to send a message today that we should not move from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was just listening to Mr. Helez's discussion that told us the facts and the data here, that is. how many people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina at all times and how few we will be after the end of this session today. So please take this Declaration as a wish for all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to all be told together that we are for peace, tolerance and mutual respect, and that none of us here support the flammable and racist statements of Bakir Izetbegović, who has insulted the last days of Srbin and black people. I believe that behind us is a century of wars, I believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, not a century, but centuries of peace, co-existence and construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9797	Thank you very much. Representative Dragan Mektić. There you go, counsel, there's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9798	Thank you. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. It has long been known that in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thieves, tycoons and politicians who are bound to each other to that extent to be enormously rich, to enjoy all the possible privileges of this country and to be extremely well at the same time both, and the other, and third, to the people, let me say so, the dog bone that the people, that this people are gnawing while they are thus keeping them away from all key serious issues and problems. Among other things, there has been a longer period of time, it is not clear at all, and politicians do this very skillfully by misleading the people, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the MAP or not. We saw that the other day the document announced NATO, which said that Ukraine and Georgia activated the MAP, Bosnia and Herzegovina with the reform programme and that we are in the process of NATO integration. We hear politicians here, I listened to, say, a member of the Croatian People's Presidency, Mr Komšić, that we are in the MAP, I hear a member of the Serbian people's presidency that we are not in the MAP. It is a key strategic geopolitical issue that determines Bosnia and Herzegovina's status in future, future generations. I ask the question – The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with delivering within seven days to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament the 2019 Defence Reform Programme and the 2020 Defence Reform Programme (adopted by the competent commission), here the other day, as well as the NATO document submitted to the European Union Mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Brussels during April this year. So we have to explain to the people, we can't keep the people from knowing whether we are, uh, going into NATO integration or not. We listen to different statements from some high-ranking political figures and one lie. Or lie to those who say we're in the MAP or lie to those who say we're not in the MAP. Let the people know, let the people just not burden themselves with these stupid loans, interest, etc., etc., and this situation and the situation that Zukan Helez was talking about, let us tell the people the truth. Do we have the strength to go before the people and say, We're taking you in that direction and that direction. [[representative is warned on time]] 14
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9799	Thank you very much. With this, we, Representative Saša Magazinović, are the same debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9800	About the initiative, so we can define ourselves about it, fellow Nešić. The hate speech in the political space is more than present, and I will remind you that we as a Parliament, and not only the BiH Parliament, but also the entity parliaments, have adopted the Declaration on the condemnation of hate spoken by politicians, and I think it is one of the few documents that parliaments have adopted at all levels and, unfortunately, we do not respect and adhere to. The area is contaminated by flammable statements by politicians and, of course, Bakir Izetbegović is involved. However, this is how the Declaration actually ablimates all others who are also used by hate speech and is politically directing it in a completely wrong way. Whether Bakir Izetbegović is used by hate speech – yes, there is a situation, whether he is a man to be debated by Parliament by abulating everyone else – no, he is not. If the promoter is willing to treat the other politicians who poison the people of this country with hate speech and put them all together and condemn them absolutely you will have support for it and I think it's an important thing to discuss here. I have long said that an ugly word sent to Parliament can end up as a stone on the returnees' head anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that politicians absolutely, absolutely, are not aware of their responsibilities when they say difficult words. However, if you type into Google Milorad Dodik hate speech, in the first article that comes out you have five sentences that say – Bosnia and Herzegovina a historical failure, an impossible state. Do you think it's not, that someone doesn't feel like a hate speech and an attack on the state, by comparing the minaret mosque with a rocket, the problematic functioning of religious rituals there, he says, the Bošnjak are only 2%, and the hoja wakes them up every morning at five o'clock, as he says, singing. Is that hate speech? Yes, it is. If dead bodies were brought in who knows where to bury them in Srebrenica, these are all quotes, is that hate speech? Yes, it is. Well, let's all those who serve these things put them in one place. Now what the SDA needs to answer the Declaration of hate speech of Milorad Dodik or anyone else, and then... don't, so it's all that, all these people who poison this people with hate speech. And let's all condemn them together and talk about it, and show that we're aware that politicians are poisoning this people with hate speech, and condemning them all together, not pulling one by one, which I don't dispute with having a basis, but not in this way. Let's go as a pronoun show your size and put them all in one place and talk about everyone, and say we're ashamed of them...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9801	Your Honor, do you have a proposal for a supplement?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9802	I have a proposal that the Proposer, if he's willing to change this for the purpose of adopting and putting it on the agenda, take a break, arrange what we have suggested and will have our support. Not this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9803	Thank you very much. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9804	The Honorable Chairman. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 71, I think the Kolegijum is in violation, bearing in mind that you have twofolded Mr. Magazinović to speak for three minutes without having a proposal on the agenda at all, so please, uh, if this is a debate on new points of the agenda, we should stick to it, not get into the metrics and content of some potential future points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9805	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Your breach of the Rules of Procedure is in place, I have just asked and asked, all counting on having a specific proposal. Of course, he abused his argument and made a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Nenad Nešić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9806	I'm afraid my colleague Magazinović didn't understand me. I have just done what I think would be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is to say, invited you who represent the Bosniak people to show responsibility, to show that the Bosniak people are great and that they are ready for co-existence with other peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is no problem for Mr Magazinović that we condemn here any other political leaders from any other political party. I'm not a lawyer for Milorad Dodik, and I have no intention of being a lawyer for Milorad Dodik, but I've never heard in any statement by Mr. Dodik call for war, conflict, violence. I've never heard of Mr. Dodik calling someone a genocide such as Mr. Bakir Izetbegović. I'm building on Milorad Dodik's policy. The man said every time – let's talk about how Bosnia and Herzegovina is possible as a functional state. And I'm here together with you ready to, after we adopt this Declaration, sit down, put on the table, see all the other representatives of the other people, see who's talking and condemn them together here and today. But the Bosniak people and Bosniak political representatives here today must show that they are the ones for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they are the ones for the possible state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not up to us... [[representative is warned on time]] I fully understand you, Mr. Magazinović, in much of the things I support you, but someone has to make a step, and I think that step should be made by Bosniak political representatives right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9807	Thank you very much. Representative Dženan Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9808	I thank the chairman. Mr. Nešić, therefore, why do I not think that you are not credible with any proposal that has in context a story that something is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's hypocritical, paradoxical, unconsistent. Listening to you at the Public Service last night, so you were 16 guests of federal television, on the question of the host – is your home country Bosnia and Herzegovina, you said – no, it's not my home country. So, less than 24 hours deny that your country is Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you are sitting in the highest legislative authority of exactly the state where you were born, in which you live, from whose budget you receive wages and everything that follows, and on the other hand you invite us MPs to declare ourselves to God about something that is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So you need to clear up with yourself first. So I think that as a proponent of any initiative, you're simply not credible, you're inconclusive.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9809	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9810	I'm correcting a false quote that says or insinuates that I'm someone who represents the Bosniak people. Nešićn't send this to your colleague, but I have to explain. The peoples are represented in the House of Peoples, because it sounds logical, the House of Peoples – the people, and here are represented by citizens, it writes fine, and it's clear to everyone, these are basic lessons. So, I do not represent the Bosniak people, neither Serbian nor Croatian, as you do neither Serbian nor Bosniak, nor Croatian, but in the civil House you represent citizens who supported your party and you personally. In the House of the Peoples are represented those interests of which you speak. So, for two floors you've fucked, the hall where the people are is on IV. You say, "Someone has to make a step." Here, I invite you to take a step together by making a document that will call things the right name and where we will not selectively choose anyone, but put them all in one place because they look like an egg to an egg, just raising their own electoral body by sending ugly messages to others. You will admit that all three national policies can find examples of encounters with convicted war criminals from which messages are sent. Are those messages a hate speech to other nations? They did. Here, I invite you let's take a step, but brave step, put it all on paper and offer this House. Well, then we'll be credible. This isn't credible. And I'm really in a bad situation that it'll turn out that I'm defending Bakir Izetbegović, that's the last thing I want in life. But let's call things a real name and all those who did such things one place and all together condemn what they did.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9811	Thank you very much for your representative. Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9812	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Nešiću, he said well Magazinović, this is a citizen's home and this is not the House of Peoples. Of course, each of the MPs has the opportunity to propose a agenda point, but by proposing a declaration that you want to put into your mouth to the President of the Party of Democratic Action Bakir Izetbegović that he gives statements of the Hague nature in no way stand. You fellow Nešić, whose leader is your SNSD, I would say, political father, your political role model, your vocabulary is identical to his where we heard different attacks, both on certain constituent 17 peoples and on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not the Hague policy to say that it will defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina if someone wants one part of it to secede, declare it an independent state or try to attach it to another state. It is the constitutional and legal obligation of every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina and every citizen of the democratic state anywhere in the world to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And so should the statements and president of the Party of Democratic Action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9813	Thank you very much. Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9814	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Well, look, Mr. Nešić, you first commended me as I was good at saying that the people are leaving, etc., you believe that one of the reasons why the people, citizens, however you will, the people, are leaving this country is just this right now, here, is what you suggested as the Declaration of Hate of Bakir Izetbegović. You don't need me, that one, to convince me that I think the bad policy is Bakir Izetbegović. I am ashamed of some statements by Bakir Izetbegović as – let the Bošnjak go, the Jevrej have returned in 2,000 years and the Bošnjak will return in 2,000 years, etc., but this does not excuse you to put this man and bring a declaration about him. So I personally listened to Mr. Milorad Dodik on a television set in Belgrade, when he says - I hate Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, man has a word of hate, and your declaration is about hate. And if you don't put this man who is currently chairman of the BiH presidency and the absolute ruler of the smaller BH entity in that Declaration I don't know who will and who will support it. In that poll when people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, no Srbin said he was leaving because of January 9th, nor said he was leaving because Republika Srpska is part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, no Hrvat said in a poll leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina that he was leaving because Željko Komšić is a member of the presidency and is not Dragan Čović or because there is no Electoral Law. No Bošnjak said he was leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina because Ćamil Duraković is not the head of Srebrenica, etc. They all have the same problems. People from this country are leaving and everyone says -- because it's insecure here for life, because it's low wages, because it's an insecure job, because this country is full of crime, corruption, nepotism, etc. And let's plan these political flossules, get back to these normal things. If there are countries such as there are no, Article 157, here I will read, the Penal Code of BiH – who, using force or threatening to use force, tries to break off part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory or to attach part of its territory to another state, will be punished by prison for at least five years. Yes, just once, the chief prosecutor. against... people would all abandon these policies, and if they were ordered by a sentence of several years in prison, that the rule of law in this country would not have occurred to Bakir Izetbegović either to call for war, nor to Milorad Dodik. [[representative is warned on time]] Whenever he runs out of political points there, and when he's bad on the poll, he always says, "Let's get together, let's go." That's not gonna happen. In 30 years, what I said, there will be no residents in Republika Srpska, there will be no cantons, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be empty. So please let us get serious. We have far-reaching agendas and serious topics and serious points today. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9815	Thank you very much. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9816	The Honorable Chairman. Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which, here, is used to discuss resolution, which is extremely inappropriate. Secondly, an opportunity is being used, and it is misused that in every possible way the name of Mr. Dodik, as if he were the subject of some debate here, is that he is a great, uh, big political problem in this debate, bearing in mind that he is making clear his political views for which he defends in the elections, gentlemen, here we are discussing the agenda of potential. And I ask you to protect Mr. Nešić's right. As an MP here, he fulfilled the full parliamentary obligations prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, neatly delivered the material, properly announced the point, and here he has already, and it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, only I cannot find which member, his personal and any other credibility is challenged, and I do not know what is not imputable to him. At this point, he has submitted a completely regular initiative to adopt a particular resolution. If it goes into the agenda we'll have time, uh, but I want to tell you and I point out, here, whatever's falling away from some... some certain circles are trying to discredit in all possible ways including personal credibility and all possible political contexts are being introduced, uh, into the game to avoid the potential of condemning this House something that is de facto, one of the worst examples of hate speech to one entire people... in this year. Please, the chairman, once again I am warning you of the Rules of Procedure, and also to protect the MP Nešić, the right to false allegations and other Rules of Procedure of the envisaged category... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9817	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative for hurting the Rules of Procedure. It stands in part, but no one has the right under the violation of the Rules of Procedure to present something that needs to be said under the correction of the wrong allegation. In this case, the correction of the wrong allegation refers to what is proposed in terms of some explanation of some point of the agenda, and I, by the Rules of Procedure, cannot deny any of the MPs the right to correct the wrong indication of what is referred to. So I ask you all to stick to the Rules of Procedure and the times together, and the way in which you discuss keeping the agenda in a sense if you have a proposal to supplement or download the agenda item only remains, and the corrections of the wrong allegation to refer to what is not stated by the previous speaker in the debate are made. Here, thank you very much. I hope you all behave together, so at least respect the time we're in right now. I don't think we need to remind you of that. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9818	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 19 Well, I think the gentlemen who referred to what Mr. Nešić suggested that you should apologize to him. It's his right to suggest that he thinks he's giving a political assessment. It can't be called credible or not credible, it's a commercial right. He uses it as you used it or as Mr. Helez has repeatedly offended us all here by saying...... he has never apologized. I never allowed myself to label any people, not even an individual who personally offends me. And this is about an initiative that is completely legal. Mr Nešić also has the right to believe that he represents the interests of the Serb people because he was elected from the Republika Srpska, that is his right, he can represent the citizens, but it is his right to say who he represents. Neither can he argue with what counterpart Magazinović said. What Mr. Osmanović was saying, he's not here, so I'm going to skip, he's not, so there's also Mr. Nešić referred to a key word in his Declaration, which is calling a nation genocide. There is no equivalent for something similar to what Mr Dodik said, or Stevandić, or Nešić, or anyone, there is no equivalent that can be measured by that labeling and insulting the entire people. And it could have been avoided with only one apology, it could have been a lapus, it could have been, I don't know, and stress. This is how it is resolved, not by defending such an attitude, because defending Nešić's attitude and disputing him to seek to condemn the name of a nation of genocide is exactly the support of that attitude. And here it looks like the salva should go towards Nešić, who is neither in my political party, nor we think alike, nor in the club, nor in the coalition, but he's right. And what I would also say is that you cannot treat Bakir Izetbegović, who you colleagues have, who attack Mr Nešić, by referencing Milorad Dodik, because there is no equivalent to being called genocide, point. Find anything, try to quote, there's nothing like it. Such a thing is solved either by apology or judgment. You don't have to condemn it but you can't challenge Mr. Nešić to suggest that he condemn it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9819	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9820	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Greetings to all present, to you in the College. So, I would refer to what counterparts Helez, Đonlagić and Magazinović said. So, colleague, I'd like to start, here's my last colleague, or the first one I listed, Mr. Helez. I don't know when and where he spent that poll and where he heard it like that, here it may be, as he says, but I think exactly the opposite, that people are just leaving political uncertainty and because they can't... their political rights, even those you called, so, Hrvat, well, etc. I think exactly the opposite. But, well, you say there's this poll, so, okay, maybe you've seen it somewhere and you'll show us. As for Mr. Đonlagić, I don't know what you are, so somehow educateing Mr. Nešić here, I'm saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina is my homeland. But in that country, I can't... my political rights, I can't choose my own MPs, and I don't know how long she'll be my country. Here, I say she is my country, looking for rights, political rights for my people, and if I don't get them, I don't know how long my country will be. So, here's a good one you just said. 20 As for Mr. Magazinović, so Mr. Magazinović, I tried to open that first page that you said Mr. Dodik was saying, it doesn't stand there, I didn't find it, or I may have opened the wrong page, but here, maybe or another, so you'll probably fix it. And when it comes to the hate speech something you mentioned there when you put out opinions about the order of a political state I don't think that's hate speech, it's a political attitude. I hope you don't mean to ban us MPs here to talk about what our political position is about the state of the country we live in, about its arrangement, its functioning, etc. I hope you don't think it's... hate, but it's the job of an agent as far as I can tell. And the other thing, I'm unusually glad, is that I'm unusually glad for the public that you said that there is a civil House in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is this House. I'm unusually glad you finally admitted that. So, we have never disputed that there are both the House of Peoples and citizens, that civil rights in this country are also satisfied through representation, so through political representation. I'm unusually glad that you said that this is a citizen's home, so, and you keep saying other things in public. about the election law, so I'm really glad that you finally said that in front of the cameras. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9821	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9822	Well, here's from these few injuries and corrections to the wrong quote, I think that non-paper creators and these stories about wars, tensions, disunity, referendums, conflicts can be completely satisfied. I have a feeling that now both Izetbegović and Dodik heard each other on the phone, threw their hands at each other and said, "We did it." Exactly what they wanted, to open up a story about these things to put aside everything that pressures people in this country. True, the fact is that this is what Izetbegović did, not for every conviction, but for complete isolation. To call one people genocide and say, yes, I want to go to war and call others and call some racist statements for every conviction, primarily from the people who come from his party. And it's undeniable, but also an indication that he or his party supports it should then be isolated. And that everyone who supports today's Declaration says yes, we don't want to be... And that's why I think...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9823	Your Honor, what's wrong with the quote and who are you referring to? Don't abuse.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9824	I don't know how you need to keep wanting to interrupt me, do you have any special...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9825	I don't have any, I just want this House to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9826	And why didn't you, and why didn't you break up the other five colleagues? 21
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9827	Everyone has to be referred to whose guilty allegations they're correcting. You didn't refer, I listen very carefully to you and every colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9828	I just said, I was telling my colleagues from the Party of Democratic Action...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9829	You didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9830	How could I not, Club SDA?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9831	I ask all MPs in the future to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, to refer to which they are correcting and to whom they refer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9832	And that's why I think, and that's why it's clear now who wanted this debate and the corrections of the false allegations that we're talking about right now, I think we should approach the vote and, of course,... that racism, such statements, the summoning of wars is welcome in this country let the vote on the Declaration, which is legitimately proposed by counterpart Nešić be made known. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9833	Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9834	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Nešić, here's the reference, you're from Sarajevo, you're born and grown up in this town I think, and you'll understand what I mean when I tell you that you're a guy with this proposal, not to say a Levite. Because what you've suggested is exactly what SDA, SNSD and HDZ want us to spend the next two hours here, and here it has already begun, by discussing Bakir, Milet, Dragan, about their nationalist statements. Here, to quote your club colleague Borenović when he spoke before this debate – these kinds of stories distract attention from the key problems. And now this story will dominate today's session instead of already starting the story of the disastrous results of the Council of Ministers, the acquisition of vaccines, the lack of laws. If you wanted to do SDA, HDZ, SNSD a favor to discuss the topics in which they are in their own field, where they pitch each other a ball, then you did it. But the bottom line is they pulled that ball through your legs. That's why you turned out to be a Levite.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9835	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9836	We will not talk about information literacy, but when you enroll Milorad Dodik – hate speech comes out of you two articles. The first – to whom Dodik is responsible for hate speech, where you have an analysis of it, and the second Milorad Dodik punished for hate speech by the CEC. There's more. The other thing, I didn't discover hot water when I said this was a civil home, it's clear to every living person, I don't know what you're surprised about. So there are no Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, ostali here are citizens. There's another home that's home to the people. And absolutely a colleague, Borenović, did a great job. I Nešićn't think that was your goal, but you couldn't have played better for them today, both today, and the other, and the third. We're dealing with this now and they're making a play now who's on which side, and you'll see after an hour how this same SDA and SNSD, which are now like in the conflict, are jointly selecting a member of the Central Election Commission from HDZ, you'll see in a few hours how it works. Don't help them. I don't know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9837	Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9838	Oh, here, I'll point out exactly what it's about. So, counterpart Lovrinović said he couldn't choose his representative, I guess he meant a member of the Croatian People's Presidency. Mr. Lovrinović, I'm only talking about facts. Data from the Central Election Commission say there are about 600, over 600,000 registered Hrvat voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to give 50% of that vote to that representative of yours whom you propose, here is the HDZ, he would have won convincingly. Not only the anti-candidate of the Croatian people, but any candidate who is, and not to say he gets 90% of the votes, as incorrectly represented in public, that would be over 550,000 votes. And the fact that people, Hrvat, won't vote for whoever you want and get 400-500 thousand votes and win that's a different story now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9839	Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9840	Honorable chairman, there's going to be a discussion, so, uh, it's more for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9841	Thank you very much. Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9842	Thank you, Chairman. What my colleague Stevandić discussed, I think these are indeed enormously inappropriate accusations to tell the president of the Party of Democratic Action that he called one people genocide, which cannot stand. My colleague, Stevandić, to explain to you, by the name of the alleged, what the term genocide means, you must know that, both You and Nešić. Genocidals are those convicted before international courts, both the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court, and domestic courts, to commit the most serious crime of genocide in 23 Srebrenica and its surroundings. And these are genocides, who directly worked their own actions to do genocides, as well as those who stood when it comes to politics that did that part of the job. There's no way any people can be called genocide. God Bog the people of Serbia. I hope I made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9843	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9844	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I'll start again from my esteemed colleague, Zukan Helez. Six hundred thousand, he says, Hrvat, I don't know if there were any in '91. that they could vote so much. If you like, 700 and something was common on the list, now whether all the voters would be okay, where's the good news now? However, when we talk about those who declare themselves today, we talk about those who went to the elections. And I don't know if Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral body has ever come out more than 50%, even among Hrvat. We speak among them that 90 and something, and over 90%... voted for HDZ. And that's right. However, we would be happy to come out 100%, so, but it's a mental noun, for everyone, not just for the Hrvat. When it comes to Mr. Magazinović, I did not say I was surprised, but I am grateful to you, but Mr. Magazinović came out, which you said was a citizen's home and that he exists and that civil rights are being exercised here. And okay, I don't mind. But I would, therefore, correct his incorrect claim that some member of the HDZ would be elected today as a member of the Central Election Commission. So it doesn't exist at all, it has a contest, it has, it knows how to choose, how it was done, how the commission conducts it, etc. ...be about it too. Mr. Arnaut also said that someone threw the ball at us, that we would discuss it today. So, I don't know what he figured out that HDZ wanted to discuss this today, I don't know what he figured it out on. We just got involved in a debate about what we thought, or I got involved as an individual about what was said here today and what I thought was incorrect, nothing more. And we'll see if the point goes through whether we're going to engage or not, that's our right and that we don't get involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9845	Thank you. Representative Nenad Nešić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9846	Well, where do I start? Mr. Đonlagić, I told on TV yesterday that my country is Republika Srpska, and I feel it that way. And one of you here said I was Sarajlija, I was Sarajlija's own, and I don't live in Sarajevo, and that's the fact where my parents and my grandparents lived and who knows what other knee. And that's why I don't live in Sarajevo and 100,000 people, Srbin, don't live in Sarajevo. As far as the salary is concerned, I receive a salary of 24 taxpayers from Republika Srpska whose territory I've been elected to. As far as I'm concerned, I represent the Serbian people and the Republika Srpska, and I don't want anyone evil or Bosniak or Croatian or anyone else living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Arnaut, I don't know if I heard correctly that you said I turned out to be a Levite. I'd like to ask the chairman, if that's true, I don't know if I've heard correctly, but it can be checked. You see, Mr. Arnaut called me the mass of my friends, my schoolmates from the order of the Serbian people and asked me – why don't we condemn Mr. Bakir Izetbegović's statement that he calls us genocides, us who today don't live in Sarajevo, us who were born in Sarajevo, us who have been evicted in one way or another from Sarajevo. Well, that's the difference, Mr. Arnaut, why I reacted to it here today and why I had to do this. Because I've been called by many friends, comrades, people I know and don't know, who have sought today to react to us here Serbian representatives, representatives of Republika Srpska in the name of genocide. [[student is warned on time]] I would remind you here of a declaration by the SDA, in fact a resolution on constitutional reform and electoral legislation that was passed on 14/09/2019, calling for the abolition of entities, the abolition of cantons, the abolition of East Sarajevo where I now live. And I haven't heard from anyone in Republika Srpska that after such a resolution he called for war, violence, conflict, I haven't heard anyone call anyone in that SDA assembly one way or another. I love you. This here is an invitation to... relationships, and to condemn something that condemns every normal man. [[representative is warned on time]] And let me remind you, you are here many lawyers...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9847	Time, Your Honor, this is a correction to the wrong quote, please respect your time, you've exceeded...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9848	Don't interrupt me, I've been following closely since I've been sitting here for a long time to allow some of you to step over and over for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9849	No, no one's allowed...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9850	Don't, I'll paint next time that...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9851	Please, I'm warning you, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9852	I'm asking you to let me have another sentence, give it to me. If you hadn't interrupted me, I would have finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9853	Come on, finish your thought. Please finish your thought. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9854	Well, thank you. The United Nations Charter guarantees peoples the right to self-determination to secession. I don't see anyone's call to discuss peaceful disunity. I don't see anything controversial. A man calls for a conversation and nothing else. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9855	Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9856	I'm very reluctant to participate in this discussion, but I am obliged to correct Mr. Helez's guilty allegations of 600 thousand Croatian voters on... It's completely unverified and incorrect data. There's other verifiable and accurate data that's been on the list since '91. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about 800,000 Hrvat live in the 2013 list of about 500 thousand Hrvat. So, one part of the Hrvat is gone. There are verifiable and accurate data that the example works from Bugojna expelled 14,000 Hrvat over the past period. And there is another verifiable fact that in the areas where these 500 thousand Hrvat live on the list, and they are not all voters. The convincing majority, more than 90% of the vote votes are held by parties participating in the Croatian National Assembly. And that's election data, that's data that's verifiable, and that's data that, there's turnout in the same elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so on, you know these numbers, and with these numbers it's unnecessary, incorrect and wrong to manipulate in any context, and also in the context of this unfortunate debate on the points of the agenda here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9857	Thank you very much. No more reported for corrections of the wrong quote. We're going back to the debates. I ask all MPs to comply with the Rules of Procedure. The debate is on the agenda, and it applies only to the addition of new points or to the proposal in terms of the discussion to take down points that are. Representative Zlatan Begić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9858	Respected chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly administration. I'm going to have to give a brief explanation, and in the end, I'm going to suggest a point, a new agenda point, to end this. Today we had the opportunity to see what hate speech looks like in the practice of the country's highest legislative body. This kind of accusation, the implication that someone is a representative of the Bošnjak, and we know well that man does not come from the order of that people, the carrying out and the false things. I ask you to be responsible when you rush into interpretation of the provisions of international agreements to obtain information in what context and how they are applicable because they listen to us citizens. One might think that he has more rights than he does, more than he does, that someone might think that we really live in a country where democratic standards are respected. Here, you're looking at a man whose rights are violated by the Constitution of this country, it's me. I am proof that we do not live in a country of civil democracy. And civil democracy is not unitaryization, as it is superficially or with obvious political intentions, I would also say lay, interpret and present in 26 political discourses, and then cause hate speech. I call you to account. I forgave myself a long time ago, but keep in mind that our children are not equal. Tomorrow we can be cousins in the bag. In this regard, I propose a agenda item – Statement of elected representatives by name of condemnation of any hate speech and apology if any of the present deliberately or unintentionally offended someone, or if, as an offensive statement, anyone has understood, along with the building up and condemnation of any of the former and future such statements by any party leadership party to whom the representatives belong, including the presidents of the same. I'm the first to make such a statement that I condemn every hate speech and apologize if ever, in any way, I deliberately offended someone or if someone understood my words as a hate speech, because it really wasn't my intention. I apologize to the chairman for overstepping my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9859	Thank you. Representative Sanja Vulić, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9860	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. I'm going to start by saying that I would like, after my discussion, uh, to get an answer from the Kolegijum, to make sure that the proposed Declaration by colleagues Nesic can go directly to the House without debate in the competent commission. If he can't, after you say so, I'll ask for an hour's rest so that we can rename this act, correct and adapt it to our Rules of Procedure and let it into the procedure for the House to plead. I also want to point out that we Srbin are not genocide. I am proud of congratulatory Srbin like Nenad Nešić. It's a dispute for you to support Dodik. Why? Because you can't turn him into a convert like you're individuals above him for whom insulting the Srbin dance. Clearly... that individuals...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9861	Dear MPs, do you have an update on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9862	Well, this is an addition to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9863	Do you have a dot, a new dot?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9864	Well, yeah, when you tell me if this can go like this. We'll go with the supplement...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9865	No, so formulate the agenda. The suggestion is, please let us stick to the Rules of Procedure. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9866	This is how the agenda will go, the resolution will be called condemning the hate speech of former BiH presidency member, the deputy chairman of the House of Peoples and SDA leader Bakir Izetbegović. So the content will be the same only title will be different. And let me go back to my discussion. Given that individuals on my right and left stand up and wake up with the image of Milorad Dodik today, I can safely say that Zukan Helez and Saša Magazinović are absolutely and certainly in love with the character and work of Milord Dodik. This is where individuals say politicians lie. When I ask you gentlemen what we are, we are managers if we are not politicians. I repeat, Srbin are not genocides, Srbin are proud and honest people, Srbin are people who have leaders who clearly create such... that they do nothing else but follow each step, explore what they are and what they didn't say. And I am glad and proud that we have Srbin and what Milorad Dodik is, and what Nenad Nešić is, and what Sanja Vulić and all Srbin will always stand for the interests of the Serb people, for Bosnia and Herzegovina as set out in Dejton, which means the rights of all the people who live in it. What we heard today is a shame for both the Home and the State, and this is not the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9867	Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9868	I think that you Madam Chairman is quite clear on which to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but also clearly that you have completely different arches when it comes to MPs of the ruling coalition and opposition MPs when it comes to, whether, taking away words and warning against non-compliance with the agenda, etc. Here Mrs Vulić suggested in three seconds some part of the agenda without the appropriate material in writing what the Rules of Procedure says, and then she kept it, I don't really know what, the replica, it's impossible to, uh, assess what this was.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9869	Your objection is not in place. Dear Representative Sanja Vulić has been properly warned if she has an addition to the agenda that she can continue the debate. A colleague formed a agenda point, and the material of no MPs proposed here today came before, but after 10 minutes of their proposal. And I expect, according to this proposal, we're going to get a statement material in front of this House, so you don't need something that has no basis. I want to work on the Rules of Procedure here, all of them, and one representative, I treat it the same way. I'm not holding anyone's position, or the opposition, you might be holding it that way. Therefore, you have time ahead, and you have a Rules of Procedure. If not today, I hope that some will be able to learn how to behave in this House and how to work by the end of the term of office. Thank you very much. Representative Nermin Nikšić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9870	I thank the chairman. 28 So, I will have a supplement, but you will allow me to give a little explanation before that. I, in effect, gave up correcting the wrong assumption because my colleagues pointed to the difference between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, so it was unnecessary for me to duplicate... So, here without any fence, I clearly want to condemn the war rhetoric of any man, especially politicians, especially when it comes from the leaders of one of the political parties. After all, I didn't need the Declaration, I didn't wait for the Declaration to make that clear to my statements, uh, said and pointed out in public and delivered those convictions. But I find it really impressive how every time we find a way to discuss some of the topics that they serve us, which are nothing more than a campaign of people sitting in power together, and so that we can deal with issues that in no way can help solve the real problems of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's true, and clearly I mean it's inadmissible, no matter what it is, the whole nation will be called genocide. How and why he said that, I'm not Mr. Izetbegović's lawyer, let him explain, uh, and what he meant. And also, dear colleagues and colleagues, is there anyone who will accept that it is true and inadmissible, and that we also condemn those who deny the judgments of international courts who have found that genocide has been committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is clear that there are things we do not agree on, perhaps there is something we can agree on. Nevertheless, I believe that we should stop dealing with subjects that contribute to the condemnation of peoples, divisions, hopelessness, and turn to what life's problems are for citizens, and perhaps those eight people who have left Bosnia and Herzegovina alone in the last hour to six or seven, which would be our huge success. I wanted to propose a item on the agenda that would talk about condemning hate speech but what Professor Begić suggested I like and join his proposal of that point, I give up on this one. And I'd like, say, to discuss supplementing the agenda - to get information from the Council of Ministers on the number of deaths from COVID-19 in Bosnia and Herzegovina on measures we intend to take and on the vaccination process and the procurement of vaccines when it comes to the protection of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[representative is warned on time]] I think it would be much more important for all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina than this, our today's bickering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9871	Thank you very much. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I am concluding the debate on proposals and discussions on the agenda of today's session. I just want to say a little bit, this is where you heard the proposals for a break. A break in the Rules of Procedure is not foreseen within the agenda, so please respect. I don't have any other things but to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. These suggestions we heard, here and now from distinguished counterpart Nikšić, he said through the debate that he had a proposal and eventually said he was giving up. We are going according to the proposal to make a statement on the agenda proposal. The first to discuss the agenda came from a respected representative, Safet Softić. He asked for the agenda item to be included in today's session – Appointing a member of the Central Election Commission 29 BiH from the Croatian people's ranking commission to elect and appoint members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, a material from 28.04.2021. Please make it clear that we should put this item in today's session agenda. They asked for colleagues to be put on the agenda again, right, the vote. Come on, please let's do it again. Of the 36 present – for 20, against 8, abstentioned 8. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the proposal for a point – The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission from the Croatian people from the Commission's ranking for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH has been included in today's session agenda. The second proposal comes from a representative of Nenad Nešić – a declaration condemning the hate speech of former member of the BiH presidency, deputy chairman of the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and SDA leader Bakir Izetbegović. Please let us be clear about the proposal of this Declaration. Of the 36 present – for 10, against 21, abstentions 5. There's no general majority. I find that the Declaration of Representative Nesic was not included in today's session agenda. We are going to propose an addition of MP Dragan Mektić, he says, I propose an initiative to supplement the agenda for the 19th session of the Parliamentary House, which reads – the Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with delivering within seven days to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the Reform Programme for 2019 (Defense) and the Defence Reform Programme for 2020 (adopted by the competent commission) as well as the NATO document, which was delivered to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Mission in Brussels during April this year. I am this, says the initiative, how to formulate it, is not formulated either as a conclusion, nor as an initiative, but here we will put it to a vote, so we will formulate it as it is written. I'd like to make a statement about the proposal to supplement the agenda. Of the 36 present – for 16, against 10, abstentions 10. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9872	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9873	Please repeat your vote at the request of MP Magazinović. Of the 36 present – for 18, against 12, abstentions 6. There is a general, there is no entity majority within Republika Srpska. Ex-coordination. We move on to the proposal number four of MPs Zlatan Begić. The proposal has also not been formulated as a item of the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here is proposed – The statement of 30 elected MPs namely about condemning hate speech and apology if any of the present deliberately or unwittingly offended someone, or if, like, I apologize but has a charmed well, allow the MP to repeat the wording point, this is not very convenient to read, I apologize. But mostly, here, let's be clear about the proposal for a agenda point as set up by MP Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9874	Excuse me, I'll read the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9875	You can if you want to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9876	Therefore, – The statement of elected MPs, namely, personally, of the condemnation of any hate speech and apology if any of the present intentionally or intentionally offended anyone, or if, as an offensive statement, any such person understood, with the building up and condemnation of any of the former and future such statements by any party party party to whom the representatives belong, including the presidents of the same. So let's get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9877	Thank you. Please make a statement. Of the 36 present – for 18, against 10, abstentions 8. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand that we have completed this as a part of the agenda for today's session. We still have a colleague, Vulić, so I ask her to read the formula for the agenda point. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9878	In principle, this, the content of the amendment is absolutely the same as counterpart Nešić suggested, everything remains the same, except that in the title of the Declaration, the resolution on the condemnation of the hate speech of former BiH presidency member, deputy chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and SDA leader Bakir Izetbegović. Absolutely the same content is just, uh, the difference in the name given that you have not declared whether you will accept, this, at all, a statement about the Declaration, I have proposed a resolution, and the content is the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9879	Well, I see, that's why I'm talking, so you're proposing a resolution now. 31 Please let us be clear about this proposal. Please, colleague, of course she'll deliver the material. Of the 36 present – for 9, versus 20, abstentions 7. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the draft agenda item. With this in mind that Mr. Nermin Nikšić gave up the proposal to supplement the agenda item today's session, and I would say that, I agree that the 19th session of the House has the agenda that you received with the additions of the agenda we adopted and which services will be provided to us in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order as adopted. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Consideration of the interpretation of the representatives: Predrag Kojović, Nermin Nikšić, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina, Zukan Helez, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić and Damir Arnaut, number: 01-50-l-756/21, from 06.04.2021.; 4. A request by a representative from the SDA Club to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 0l-02-l-751/21, of 08.04.2021.; 5. A request by MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 0l-02-l-862/21, of 21.04.2021.; 6. A request by MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 0l-02-l -863/2l, of 2l.04.202l.; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-l-478/21, of 23.02.2021. (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-l-495/21, of 1603.2021, shortened procedure (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutor's Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, issue: 0l-02-l-2375/20, of 15.03.2021, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission; 10. Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, Law No: 0l-02-l-2377/20, of 15.03.2021, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 11. Proposal for a Law on the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, Law No: 0l-02-l-2376/20, of 15.03 2021, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission; 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Aida Baručija, Law No: 0l-02-l-567/21, since 17.03.2021. (first reading), 13. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Parliamentarian Nenad Stevandić for inclusion in the agenda of the 18th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: The conclusion reached by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of 32 to the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH on an urgent basis, with a maximum of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, drawing up the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH following the urgent procedure of the proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (, the Official Messenger of BiH), No 58/08), as well as the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and method of granting marketing authorisations (, Official Messenger of BiH), No 75/11, with the aim of allowing the vaccine against Coronaavirus (COVID-19), whose use of the institutions of health-related institutions to be immediately approved by the European institutions and authorities, as well as the institutions of BiH. These amendments and additions to that law and sublaw would apply until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, number: 0l-50-1-716/21, from 31.03.2021; 14. Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, issue: 0l/3-50-l-218/21, of 01.02.2021, 2) Report on the work of the Committee on Transport and Communications, issue: 01/5-50-l-218/21, of 02.02.2021, 3) Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, No: 0l/2-50-l-218/21, of 03.02.2021., 4) Report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget, No: 0l/4-50-l-218/21, of 09.02.2021., 5) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, issue: 0l/l-50-l-21, of 03.03.2021, issue of the Law of Gender of 15.21. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 03/l-50-14-428/21, of 18.02.2021, 2) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-50-14-21, link: 01,02-50-14-428/21, of 25.02.2021., 3) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-14-14-428/21, of 09.03.2021, 4) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, issue: 03/5-50-428/21, of 16.03.2021, 5) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration, issue: 03/428.02. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2020, issue: 01,02-50-l8-618/21, of 12.03.2021; 17. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for 2020, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-626/21, dated 15.03.2021; 18. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution of BiH for 2020, issue: 01-37-1-627/21, dated 15.03.2021; 19. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2020, issue:01-50-18-738/21, of 31.03.2021; 20. Report on the work and financial report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-740/21, dated 31.03.2021; 21. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2020. Year, issue: 01/4,01-16-9-769/21, of 07.04.2021.; 33 22. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019, applicant: Ministry of Security BiH, number: 01,02-50-l8-534/21, link: 03-50-l3-25-15/21, since 01.03.2021; 23. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes for the text of the Law on Temporary Measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No 01,02-02-1-865/20, of 29/04.2020; 24. The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, a ranking of the Committee for Elections and the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, number: 01-34-1-915/21, dated 28.04.2021; 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the amendment proposal and the addition of the BiH election legislation, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 0l,02-07-4-649-1/2l, of 16.04.2021; 26. Consideration of the representative initiative of the SDA Club: "We propose that the BiH Defence Ministry for the Parliamentary House of BiH draws up a report on the working conditions of members of the Armed Forces, including their official, personal, family and overall social standards, and that it eventually proposes measures to improve the standards of members of the Armed Forces of BiH", issue: 01-50-l-4l8/21 of 1602.2021; 27. A review of the Aida Baručija parliamentary initiative, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, who is asked to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the period 2018-2020, issue: 0l-50-l-496/21, of 24.02.2021; 28. The discussion of Vlatko Glavaš' representative initiative, which reads:, "In view of the historic success of 15-year-old swimmer Lane Pudar from Mostar, who, by sailing A Olympic norm in the 100-metre dolphin's discipline, has set the best score in the history of Bosnianhercegovic swimming and the second best score in the world this year, I propose to the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers that this success adequately rewards. Also, I propose that Lani Pudar be provided with money for preparations and performances at the upcoming Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo", issue: 0l-50-l-628/21, since 15.03.2021; 29. Consideration of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which is committed by the Council of Ministers to achieve savings in order to optimise the public procurement process and thereby increase the level of responsibility in spending budget money in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall form a central purchasing body within 90 days, in accordance with Article 4(2) of the Law on Public Procurement and Article 2 of the Law on Public Procurement. Regulation implementing the procedure for joint procurement and the establishment of a central purchasing body", number: 0l-50-l-684/21, of 23.03.2021; 30. Review of the parliamentary initiative Mire Pekić, which is represented by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with Article 35. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the BiH Official Messenger, issue: 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve, no later than 90 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, the issue of evaluation of civil servants who are justly absent from work, in such a way as to ensure the application of the already existing legislative solution referred to in Article 34 of Article 53a(3) of the Law on Labour in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or, in the event that this is not possible, to present in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the section relating to the assessment of the work of civil servants justly absent from work", number: 0l-50-l-699/2l, of 24.03.2021; 31. Statement of elected representatives (names) on the condemnation of any hate speech and apology if any of the present unwittingly or intentionally offended anyone, or if, as an offensive statement, anyone has understood, with the construction and condemnation of all possible former and future such statements, by any party in the leadership of the parties to whom the representatives belong, including their presidents, the proponent: Representative Zlatan Begić, No: 01-50-1-15-19/21, of 28.04.2021; 32. Adherence to ratification Amendments to the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-2l-l-786/2l, of 09.04.2021; 33. Approving the ratification of Amendment 2 to the Grant Agreement to support the State housing programme between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank in relation to the housing regional programme, issue 01,02-21- l-787/21, of 09.04.2021; 34. Granting consent for ratification of the loan agreement (reimbursement and support projects for enterprises/business entities) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (9183-BA), number: 01,02-21-l-788/2l, of 09.04.2021; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement on the Grant of Grants between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank on the Regional Housing Management Programme and on the sixth sub-project under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Housing Management Project, No: 01,02-21-l-835/21, of 16.04.2021. And now we move to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 18th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9883	I thank the Chairman and the College. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is the first interpretation in the history of this highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it also speaks of the seriousness of the situation in which we are. The business provision specifies that the interpretation, I quote, is a question which opens a debate at the House session on the work of the Council of Ministers as a whole, or on individual decisions by the BiH Council of Ministers, or certain ministries, at the end of the quote. A simplified interpretation is one of the tools MPs have to make the Council of Ministers work more and better, both in the interests of the state and the citizens. In a concrete case, however, we are opening the question of why the Council of Ministers is not working. The Rules of Procedure say this opening presentation may take 30 minutes. And if I were to talk about what the Council of Ministers has done over the past 16 months, it certainly shouldn't take me that long. But since I'm going to talk about everything the Council of Ministers hasn't done, and we think I should, I hope to fit in at the time I've been assigned. 36 Let's start with the numbers. The BiH Council of Ministers sent seven laws into the procedure for 16 months. So we have the chairman, we have nine ministers, we have 10 deputies, we have 20 people available with civil servants, employees, advisors, secretaries, representations, etc. And all together, that one, whether, the team, has an average less than one law in two months. During the same period, opposition MPs and delegates, specifically them... who dealt with it, have proposed as much as 19 laws. As far as efficiency is concerned, more laws have been passed in this House on a proposal from nine opposition MPs than on a proposal from the entire BiH Council of Ministers. And then even when you look at the essence of what the Council of Ministers has proposed, you see that out of the seven laws, in five cases it's about very minor changes and additions to those laws, and that only two were actually new laws. Four of these seven laws consist of only 15 members. And to make matters worse, most of these laws have not been passed, neither has the entire procedure in the House of Peoples. There is no doubt that this is the farthest, weakest Council of Ministers' meeting in Bosnia and Herzegovina's history. The particular problem is, however, what this is about is a meeting that is proving dangerous to the health and lives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although common sense requires a continuous session during the pandemic, sets of measures, from financial, to administrative, to security, only one of these seven laws applies in any way to the pandemic, and that is, I say, indirect, because it is actually the Law on the functioning of judicial institutions at the time of the pandemic, and neither is this Law adopted until the end. At no time has the Council of Ministers proposed laws to save the budget, reroute funds from representations and purchases of vehicles to bigger salaries and better equipment for police officers, customs officers, the health sector, all those people at the state level who are currently on the first line of defence against the pandemic. On the contrary, as we had the opportunity to see in the budget, they continued to buy limos, spend on representations, pay large severances, issue jubilee prizes, pay phone bills, which are astronomical. And all that is is what the Council of Ministers took and paid for by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Council of Ministers gave them nothing in return. In addition to the complete absence of the proposal for legal solutions aimed at countering the effects of the pandemic, the Council of Ministers has escalated its responsibility when it comes to other measures under their jurisdiction. And to be clear, we are talking here about the clear explicitly prescribed powers of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina without hitting the authority of lower levels of government. The law on ministries and other regional administrations clearly stipulates that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is, I quote, responsible for carrying out operations, carrying out tasks that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction regarding establishing basic principles of coordination of activities, harmonising the plans of entity bodies of authorities and defining a strategy in international health and social protection areas. During more than a year of the pandemic, there has been no coordination of activities, nor has there been coordination of the plans of the entity bodies in relation to the measures that have been taken, which should have been co-ordinated, with a view to protecting public health. For this reason, we had an absurd situation where children in the Federation could not leave their homes, but their parents could have taken them to the playgrounds in neighbouring Republika Srpska or,... which, in turn, increased the concentration on these playgrounds while they were staring empty here. And we had similar situations at different intervals regarding the work of catering facilities, sports events, etc. The civil service ministry has not done any analysis of the needs of two entities for certain medical means and of harmonising their plans for the purchase of them. Most importantly, apart from inefficient participation in the Kovaks mechanism, the BiH Council of Ministers has not taken any steps towards defining the strategy on the international plan when it comes to obtaining vaccines. It is clear that the priority has been given to countries that have ordered large quantities, but leaving entities at the mercy of multinational corporations, which in most cases did not want to negotiate with lower levels of government, has led to a situation in which neither the Federation nor Republika Srpska are able to vaccinate a tenth of its population. No transfer of jurisdiction would be there, entities would continue to engage independently in contractual relations with corporations, pay vaccines from their budgets, establish and implement the vaccination plan independently of each other. The Council of Ministers had to play an exclusive role entrusted to it by the Constitution and the laws of the country, to define a strategy on the international plan to obtain these vaccines. But, of course, that's not done. ministrica Gudeljević has repeatedly made statements that she does not have any competence in this matter despite the above-mentioned exclusive powers, whose application would significantly facilitate the conduct of entity authorities, while at the same time leading to more effective co-operation and co-ordination of two entities. The BiH Council of Ministers, specifically the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, did not take any action aimed at constantly updating measures concerning the conditions of entry of foreign citizens and of our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina has very early established a model from which to date, unfortunately, it has not strayed even though the change in the epidemiological image has varied significantly during all these months. In spite of the absence of any reciprocity between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina allows for the smooth entry of citizens of neighbouring countries without a PCR test or compulsory quarantine, and the quarantine or negative PCR test does not insist when it comes to our citizens, regardless of which part of the world they come from. At the same time, none of our three neighbors have such a liberal regime. During the pandemic, we witnessed the dissatisfaction of state and police officers, also spoken of by colleague Đapo, not only because of the inadequate evaluation of their work, but also because of the lack of basic material resources needed to protect their health during the pandemic. The Council of Ministers has not made any plans for the priority vaccination of employees of state institutions who are on the first line of defence - police officers, our diplomats in particularly affected areas, medical staff, the Armed Forces of BiH, judicial workers and others, whose work is essential for the smooth continuous functioning of institutions. The budget of institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted only at the end of July 2020, more than four months after the pandemic was declared. The budget did not respond in any way to the crisis Bosnia and Herzegovina was facing at that time. The budget provided capital expenditure for non-essentialial purposes such as new high-class cars, and was not accompanied by proposals for extraordinary austerity measures during the pandemic such as cutting already mentioned numerous privileges. Moreover, the 2021 budget proposal is still not in the procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are already in the second round of temporary financing which is very harmful, I would like to cancer disastrously, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the following reasons. First, last year's budget on which the temporary funding in this year is based is not in any way responding to the challenges that the pandemic has put before our country, and secondly, the lack of budget adjusted to the needs of the state in the year we entered the pandemic sends a negative message to everyone, foreign investors, potential tourists, but above all a negative message about our economy and our country's readiness to face a crisis that affects the whole world. Finally, there is no indication that the BiH Finance Ministry, in line with its powers, has, I quote, created a new borrowing policy in the country and abroad, the end of the quote, in any way pointed to Republika Srpska authorities' risks of borrowing under extremely unfavourable conditions on the London Stock Exchange. Although this borrowing will not and cannot burden Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget it is clear that the Republika Srpska part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 38 that any economic instability in the entity will harm the interests of the Federation and, of course, the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To date, Bosnia and Herzegovina has failed to produce any significant shipment of vaccines as a result of its own efforts. On the contrary, most of the vaccines received today in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the result of the goodwill of our neighbours and several other countries, but of course they are quantities that are not enough even to begin any more massive vaccination. At the same time, the Foreign Ministry ignored the letters of at least one of our embassies, those in Moscow, about the possibilities of obtaining large amounts of vaccines at favourable prices. I don't know if our other embassies sent similar memos. If so, the Ministry has avoided its responsibility to act on them, if they are not the issue of effective co-ordination of the Ministry towards diplomatic consular offices and setting clear priorities at the time of the pandemic. ministrica Turković did not come to this House once after the appointment, she did not answer any oral parliamentary questions and has a far-fetched percentage of the answers to the questions of the written nature. Despite the budget of over 60 million marks and the diplomatic consular network of over 50 representative offices, ministrica Turković failed to obtain any vaccines. At the same time, the minister recently spent several weeks on a tour of the Middle East countries we are not, nor can we expect the kind of assistance that we need most at the moment. In February of this year, exactly five years have been completed since Bosnia and Herzegovina's application for membership in the European Union, and candidate status is not yet in sight, nor is it realistic. The comparisons for our neighbours were waiting on average less than two years for candidate status. Not a single key part of 14 priorities has yet to be met, not one of the three necessary laws has yet to be adopted, and two have not even been sent to the procedure. Moreover, the third Public Procurement Act yesterday did not win an entity majority in the House of Nations and slip towards rejection in the second round, or become a subject of trade. To make the matter more absurd against the law, representatives of the SNSD voted in the House of Peoples, the same party from which it came and chaired the Council of Ministers who referred the Law to the procedure. This kind of self-will and playing with citizens has enabled them the Party of Democratic Action, about what we have spoken very often here, giving them the fourth delegate in the House of Peoples. And now in practice we see what it means that three is not equal to four. The Justice Minister in the second term, Mr Grubeša, has been repeating for years that, I quote, soon, the end of the quote, will submit in the procedure a new Law on VSTV and a new Law on conflict of interest. Two out of three legislative conditions for candidate status. Instead, opposition MPs in this house came under the adoption of a Law on Conflict of Interest that meets European standards, but the Law is now trapped in procedural machinations in the House of Peoples. The draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, on the other hand, was assessed by relevant international bodies, not only as insufficient in respect of meeting European standards, but also as a significant step backwards in relation to the existing bad law. In doing so, Minister Grubeš obstructs the work of the Justice Commission, which is the only light point of this term, but not thanks to the BiH Council of Ministers, but thanks again to opposition MPs. Also, Minister Grubeša is responsible for a portfolio that is constantly getting the worst marks of international experts and institutions. According to official data from the BiH Border Police during 2020, more migrants, 10,852, were prevented from moving from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia, i.e. to the European Union, which is their preferred destination, than from Serbia or Montenegro entering our country, 10.740. This makes it clear that the BiH Border Police are more effective at protecting the external border of interest of the Republic of Croatia than the internal border of interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This approach, apart from the fact that there is no justification for technical nature for it, as the river 39 border towards Serbia is much easier to protect from most of the western border towards Croatia, produces significant problems for the residents of Bihac and other cities and places in Unsko-San canton, Sarajevo and Tuzla. Thousands of migrants are concentrated in these areas, of which, according to official data, more than 3,000 are without adequate accommodation. Despite these devastating results, the Ministry of Security and associated police agencies of the Council of Ministers only approved the funds for the involvement of 300 additional police officers to the Border Police in August 2020. In addition to these priority issues, the fact is that the ministry whose activities were not necessarily directed towards solving the pandemic-induced problems did not carry out its regular duties. An example works by the Ministry of Transport and Communications has completely failed when it comes to the establishment of modern technologies. Namely, while waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina's 5G network according to official data, the Communications Regulatory Agency still lacks full 4G coverage. Neither of the many stages necessary for the establishment of the 5G network was implemented. The more BH Telecom's intentions to build a 5G network allow Chinese companies to manipulate the system of strategic interest for each country. Although it is a company owned by the Federation of BiH, whose personnel, of course, come from parties made up of the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Transport and Communications as competent, I quote, is in accordance with the law, preparing and drawing up strategic and planning documents from international and inter-entity communications, the end of the quotations was mandatory to point out that the entry of Chinese companies into the telecommunications market, in any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, poses risks to sensitive public, commercial and personal communications. The fact, after all, that the Council of Ministers also uses BH Telecom services. Also, the Prague Initiative and other internationally accepted digital standards fall, whether, in the domain of their jurisdiction, but none of it, we have seen any progress in this period. This best indicates, I would say, the 2020 review report, quote, the audit findings suggest that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not ensure the effective and timely implementation of the TV signal digitisation activities. Poor management of digitisation activities, without plans with clear responsibilities, activities and deadlines, have caused all deadlines to end the digitalisation process, including one that has taken over Bosnia and Herzegovina as an obligation under international agreements. An analogue terrestrial TV signal is still being broadcast in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the deadline for the completion of the digitalisation process has not been defined. Due to delays in the process, Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens have the greatest damage that has not secured a quality earthly digital signal, but an even more important economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has not freed frequencies for the use and development of new digital technologies. When looking at the map of the digitalisation process, Bosnia and Herzegovina literally represents a black hole on Europe's map. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, took over this post in his exhibition made a series of promises that none of them, as far as I know, had fulfilled. It's time to just remind a few of them. The chairman of Tegelti in his exposé you realized that you were unable to present a detailed programme of work until ministers were elected, and that you would deliver a detailed work plan after the election of ministers. However, you adopted the 2020 Work Programme on July 29th of that year, and I don't know if you remember how much you then proposed the law in your work programme. If you don't remember, I'll remind you, straight 48 laws. And how many laws were passed by the end of 2020? Not one. In this new Labour Plan, which you have brought to this second quarter now, you plan to adopt 49 laws. I mean, at first I thought it was... a mistake, that you were just copying from last year so that instead of getting 48 out of 49, but here's more time to see. 40 But to return to some parts of the exposé then. Then you talked about priorities – economics, public administration reform, European integration, rule of law, migrant crisis. You've been talking about important circular reforms, which shows that you're aware of the shackles that hold BH's economy hostage and prevent it from developing. You promised a new VAT law, as you yourself said, in order to support companies. You spoke of the need to ban the export of raw materials from Bosnia and Herzegovina, encouraging our companies to devote themselves instead of exporting raw materials to the finalisation of products in our country and thus increase their revenues multiplely. In recent times, however, it has shown that this Council of Ministers is not able to implement much simpler things than economically irrational raw materials exports. And at the very beginning of your exposé, you said, I quote, I express my full commitment to the principles and values on which modern democracies of the world rest, the end of the quote. In this regard, Mr. Tegeltija, it is time to show, as you have answered one of the questions asked today, that you are a serious and conscientious man, and to take responsibility for the position you are acting. It is clear to you and to us, as well as to the citizens that this composition of the Council of Ministers is not adequate for the time and circumstances in which we live. The Council of Ministers in this Chamber is obviously unable to lead Bosnia and Herzegovina through the pandemic and economic crisis it is in. It is of general interest that you accept and take a move that will establish new European democratic standards that you spoke of at the beginning of your exposé. Resign and show the citizens what the conduct of politicians according to European democratic standards looks like in practice. Resign and show the parliamentary majority and your party that they cannot play with you and break the laws that you refer to in the procedure. Such resignation would mark the start of a new European approach to politics and the understanding of political responsibility in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the retention of personal satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9884	Thank you to the applicant. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure (1) I give the word at the same duration as the one to whom the interpretation is addressed. So I urge the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to address the House. Here you go, Mr. Tegeltija.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9885	Madam Chairman, members of the College, gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me try to answer something that I haven't had a chance to know what I'm supposed to give an answer to. This may be the first interpretation in the House of Representatives, but these interpretations are not new in Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary life. I used to prepare the interpretation as a minister, but the interpretation had its own document. We gave the answer to that document. We gave that answer and delivered to the MPs that they had material to know what we were talking about today, which is today's agenda. For this interpretation we got one sheet of paper containing six or seven cartoons. And we tried to prepare an answer compared to what was indicated there. We wanted to send you material for that, and then they told us we had nothing to send answers to because there's no questions, there's no other material. And then today we came into a situation to talk about the 5G network, to talk about the work of individual ministries and things like that. I'm sorry I can't answer that, and I don't have time to answer that, but the Council of Ministers has prepared a material that's been conceived based on what we've received from this House, what's been called impelation. I, 41, by respecting your time, will try to give only facts, not judging, not commenting, not declaring anyone incompetent and anything like that, just to say what we did, what day we did it, how much money we provided, what for that money could be bought and so on. I will počeću by saying that since mid-January 2020, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has been monitoring the establishment of an international system of early warnings, established by international health organisation regulations, monitoring regulations and co-ordinated enhanced epidemiological surveillance by competent health institutions. I'm talking about a mid-January date. The World Health Organization declared the pandemic on 11 March 2020. Prior to the announcement of the pandemic, the Council of Ministers discussed information on the measures taken in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to prevent the outbreak and control the spread of infectious disease with a new coronovirus COVID-19. At the moment we prepared materials for this session in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no citizen of hers was registered with a new disease. The first situation in which a citizen in Banja Luka was recorded as being positive for COVID-19 was confirmed at the moment we discussed these materials. To coordinate in Doboj, 1403, a meeting of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, representatives of entity governments, mayors of Brcko District and people in charge of the health sector and others was held. The key question is anything that needs to be done at this point and how to help the health sector first. What the health sector asked us to do is to check the country's entry and control of the spread of the virus in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because at that time we only had one or two patients in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Accordingly, we have already agreed that we will introduce a restriction on the entry of foreign citizens into Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we will introduce quarantines for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 14.03 is a meeting in Doboj, 15.03. is a session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and at that session we adopted a decision to prescribe additional conditions for the entry of foreigners into Bosnia and Herzegovina. You may remember, perhaps not, but then we brought restrictions for countries with which, there are a huge number of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina in those countries, such as Italy, Austria, Germany, but also for some very distant countries like parts of China, South Korea, Japan, and so on. It was the first decision we made on the pandemic. The next Council of Ministers session was held for two days, 17.03. At that session, we adopted a Decision declaring the state of nature and other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina and filled and activated the Co-ordination Body for Protection and Rescue. By declaring, by making this Decision and declaring the state of nature and other disasters, assumptions were made for the adoption of all crisis headquarters formed in both entities and cantons, and in local communities. At the same session, aware of the health hazards of people employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Council of Ministers made a decision on the conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions regarding the threat of life and the health of employees caused by the presence of the COVID-19 virus. What is specific for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, employees of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that they are located in the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the conditions of certain epidemiological institutions, either entity, or cantonal, are brought by the conditions, with the obligation of employees to adhere to those epidemiological measures that have been defined in the area where their seats are located. Of course, any decision to limit and move people has faced a huge problem of foreign citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A large number of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have remained trapped in countries, in these ski resorts, at airports of some other countries. And then, by the time the borders were opened, 1,210 people in different ways had to be made possible by special decisions to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina or by 42 entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina. The greatest focus of the coronary virus in that period appeared just before the Easter and Easter holidays. And then some difficult decisions were made, i.e. the BiH presidency accepted the Council of Ministers' proposal to introduce quarantine to border crossings. It was an attempt to slow down the entry of those people with health problems. And for that it was necessary to engage the Armed Forces of BiH. The BiH presidency has ordered the Armed Forces to make themselves available with all their resources needed to protect from the pandemic. We have made a decision and we have opened quarantines, and a very unpopular and difficult measure for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at 10 border crossings, not to list them now, and there are open capacities from small border crossings of 20, accommodation for 20-30 people, and also large border crossings where quarantines for 200 persons are opened. In this process, 603 members of the Armed Forces were engaged with 64 motor vehicles. Armed forces intervened at 47 locations during that period. In accordance with the BiH Presidency's Decision, the Armed Forces have made material and technical means available, their material and technical means, cantons, entities, local communities, containers, tents, military beds, etc. It was all those things that had to be done at first. Aware of the prices of the pandemic that comes for both the health sector and the real sector, for quarantines and so on, the Council of Ministers has adopted a Decision on seeking international assistance for protection and rescue. It is a decision to define what is needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina at that time, which is medical equipment, means and material for the detection of infected viruses, you remember the difficult problems to provide tests, protective equipment, equipment for disinfectants and such. The first meeting held with international donors at that time promised to help Bosnia and Herzegovina with 84m euros. We also immediately brought the principles of distribution and assistance coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina. How difficult it is now to say that these international aids have been collected, because they have come on different grounds. It's hard to count all the material we've come up with, whether it's individuals, bilateral countries, and so on. And, of course, I don't want to list it out of fear that it can happen that I forget someone who has significantly helped Bosnia and Herzegovina through this process, and are donated by individuals from both countries and abroad, companies from both the country and abroad. There was a lot of bilateral help but also aid from humanitarian organizations, donated money, medical equipment, protective equipment, disinfectants, food. And, of course, at this point, thanks to everyone on behalf of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who helped provide this assistance. All this has come to the entities, she has a decision, and 10 cantons in the Federation of BiH, Brcko District. Almost negligible, except for a small number of protection masks and disinfectants, has not been retained for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all the necessary institutions have obtained from their own resources. The last major shipment that arrived in Bosnia and Herzegovina refers to the delivery of 6.5 million masks, a donation from Germany, but we must say, however, that the largest individual delivery we received was related to medical equipment, a little more than seven million euros from the European Union. In this process, it was necessary to define a system of exemption from customs, indirect taxes and everything that represents humanitarian aid, because no one ever planned it in the law,...the power to happen, that it would be necessary to happen. At this point, all crisis headquarters are working and there is a high degree of consensus on co-ordination and a proposal for measures that were agreed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and entity ministries. Maybe the curfews started somewhere later, somewhere earlier, but everybody introduced them, everyone closed the facilities, it was just a matter of the moment they were doing it all. It was necessary at that point to obtain all of this, for it was certain that it could not be obtained through humanitarian aid. A question of the Public Procurement Act was raised, and it was then said that an initiative was launched to amend the Public Procurement Act. Through the talks that we had with 43 directors, then director of the Public Procurement Agency, 17.03., it was found that the Public Procurement Act met all the necessary conditions to define the rapid procurement processes in case of emergency situations or circumstances. Since 1703, when contract authorities have been informed of this, there has never been a request to amend the Public Procurement Act. Of course, there were other issues afterwards, but these issues were not related to the procurement procedure, there were more issues of type of equipment, prices and the like. The humanitarian aid, and that was not enough, was an assessment that there was a need to provide significant additional funding to be spent, primarily for the extremely high additional costs of the healthcare sector and additional resources to be provided to help the real sector. At our disposal, we had budgets of different levels of government, international assistance, but all that was not enough, we had to provide additional funding. The measures created by the entity governments, cantons and some local communities to help economic operators required really big financial resources. What was available to the Council of Ministers is a redistribution in the budget, international assistance and additional funding. ...helping what the Council of Ministers has done, or the Parliamentary Assembly, is not now important, you have adopted this budget, has defined 42 million aid to the health sector, i.e. to tackle the consequences of COVID. And not to banalize it, that 40 million KM, 40 million KM per today's course means $24.8 million. For $24.8 million at the prices we paid for vaccines in Kovaks Bosnia and Herzegovina can or could buy two million and 509,000 doses of vaccines. I really can't believe someone's underestimating this contribution. I'll tell you that through Kovaks, through the EU mechanism, we've provided two million and 200,000 doses of vaccines. What was necessary quickly was the support of international financial institutions. More than 700m financial support for Bosnia and Herzegovina was provided only after a month. ... the first, first decision we discussed and made decisions on the announcement of these latest measures was held on 15th, and already in 01.04. we had an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund has provided 330m euros, European Union macro-financial assistance of 250m euros, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 56m euros, the European Commission 83.5m euros. A total of 709.5m euros. The users of all these funds are entities, cantons and Brcko District. None of these funds ended in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions. We, of course, may not have taken advantage of that opportunity, certainly did not take advantage of that arrangement offered with the International Monetary Fund, which offered 750m euros through a three-year arrangement but did not reach agreement on the letter of intent. And what is quite certain is that in September will be available, and since 01.01.2022 operationally, about 300m euros in additional funds that will be able to withdraw Bosnia and Herzegovina from the International Monetary Fund. Immediately after the pandemic appeared a problem of lack of goods and services, a problem arose for drivers who could not move because they were asked to go into quarantine immediately after their first entry into the country. That's why we had to open the green corridors together with the European Commission, we had to enable the smooth movement of people carrying goods, we just had to define lists of goods that go uninterrupted and do not linger. And if I exempt some 10 to 15 days of communication difficulties, and perhaps some shortages of certain goods, already in mid-April became an absolute passing point in the movement of goods and services and uninterrupted exports and imports to Bosnia and Herzegovina. As part of the 29.05.2020 measure at the 23rd session, we adopted a decision on the mandatory application of preferential treatment of the domestic. Although that was the case with the European Commission, I think it is an excellent decision that we have made and that we have made a better position in international and domestic tenders for domestic companies. During this period there were several proposals and policies that came from this House regarding appropriate legal solutions. Several proposals were related to VAT, more than 44 variations, which were voted on both in this House and in the second House. The key position of the Council of Ministers was to support the views of the Directorate for indirect taxation, and the Directorate for indirect taxation had in principle a negative position for all proposals to amend the VAT Act. After that, there were more bill proposals, public procurement, medications and medical supplies. Maybe the hardest question that we're asking right now is getting a vaccine. I will read you a sentence that stands, where it is said, in accordance with the current regulations of the Ministry of Civil Affairs under the Council of Ministers of BiH until an epidemic caused by the coronary virus did not take part in the procurement of vaccines. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have laws on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, but has been adopted at the level of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District. I remind you that every year vaccines for various viral diseases are imported into Bosnia and Herzegovina, never the Council of Ministers was part of that process. The assessment that the pandemic will be something different and the message of the World Health Organization, the United Nations, Bosnia and Herzegovina launched a procedure in June 2020 to join the global system for the procurement of vaccines, and in 1809, 2020, we signed a procurement agreement through this system million and 320 thousand doses of vaccines for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the year 10.12.2020, through the EU, the mechanism agreed that we would plan to obtain about 892 thousand vaccines, and for this we received funds from the European Commission of 13m 775 000 euros. At that moment, the position in this Parliament, at several sessions, was that only those vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency were imported into Bosnia and Herzegovina. A meeting with entity prime ministers took place on 27 January 2020. It was then discussed, you remember before Christmas and New Year's holidays, whether it was necessary to perform, introduce some restrictive measures. The meeting was again in Doboj and then it was found that the delivery of vaccines through the Kovaks system in those deadlines that were defined would create enough assumptions to get a sufficient number of vaccines. Half of January, at the proposal of Prime Minister Višković, a meeting was held with, again, the prime minister, health ministers, the director of the Public Procurement Agency, and discussed the procedure for the procurement of vaccines, the registration of vaccines in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so on. It was then that the entity first came to request that the Council of Ministers, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, deliver the combined requirements of the entity to two countries whose vaccines did not today receive the consent of the European Medicines Agency. And that was 21.01.2021, under the obligation that entities and Brcko District would submit a proposal for their needs on the quantities of vaccines needed. They finished their duties on 26.01. It's 27.01. The Ministry of Civil Affairs held its first meeting with the Embassy of the People's Republic of China, on 28.01 with the Embassy of Russia and 29.01. informed of the positions that were coming from the two countries at that time. Then it is very clear that the acquisition of vaccines, neither Russian nor Chinese, at that time cannot be bilateral but, yes, they clearly gave addresses to the entities to which they should report. That was, after that we showed up with the situation, we had a contract with the Kovaks to start delivering vaccines in the first quarter. But there was really a lot of pressure from the public to get the vaccine. Today, with today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, around 232 thousand, 236,800 vaccines have been imported. Of these, the Kovaks system – 49,800, through donations of 110,000 and Republika Srpska 60,000 vaccines that she obtained through her arrangement. What we have with certainty a procurement plan by the end of June 2021. Through the plan, the Kovaks system will be provided with 182.220 vaccines. Of which, in the first week of May, 100,000 and 620 vaccines of Pfizer, we still don't have the exact date of delivery, 81,600 vaccines of AstraZenec. Through the EU, we have received 213,820 doses of Pfizer vaccine, their first delivery starts on 03 or 04.05, and an agreed, agreed delivery of 380 000 doses of AstraZenec vaccine via the EU mechanism. So the 45 money we have... Contracted donations from Malaysia amounting to 50,000 doses, Croatia 20,000 doses and those required to come from Serbia afterwards for re-treatment,... about 90,000 doses of vaccines. If all of this is delivered by the end of June, it will mean 865,000 doses of vaccines. We still have a question of direct purchases. We had a meeting yesterday with the entity's prime ministers where Prime Minister Višković said they expect 160,000 Chinese vaccines on Saturday and they received from, Republika Srpska received only 1/6 agreed vaccines with Russia. If these 160,000 vaccines arrived at this time, it would be a million doses of vaccines for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prime Minister Novalić introduced us to the fact that at the moment the Federation is talking to three different suppliers. Each was estimated at 500 thousand. No contract has been signed yet and with certainty they do not have delivery deadlines. What is certain is that Kovaks will be able to quarterlyly deliver about 200,000 doses of vaccines to Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we count after 30.06, there are two more quarters left, that means that Bosnia and Herzegovina will, therefore, be able to deliver another 400,000 doses of vaccines. There has been a lot of talk about coordination and co-operation. From 1403 to 3103, five meetings were held for a year by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the prime ministers of entities, at some meetings and the mayor of the Brcko District. At these meetings, the key topic was economics and pandemics. Really, in a year's time, five meetings, I really think what we could and should have done and cooperated with each other. Questions to help police workers, part of me answered that question today. So we agree with all trade unions of all employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, with a group formed, with tasks that should be done and prepared in that response. No police personnel in Bosnia and Herzegovina will have a privileged position. We believe that officers are equally important to us, customs officers and those who work in the judiciary and all other institutions. It's some obligation ahead of us. I want to say a few more words, I don't want to talk about hiring, getting material resources and everything we've talked about, talk about diplomatic activities. The foreign ministry had direct contacts with 11 international officials related to the pandemic. It is Austria, Germany, the European Union, Saudi Arabia, Emirates, Oman, Qatar, etc. There was a lot of trying to do and coordinate to get a certain number of shots. Many in Bosnia and Herzegovina in different positions have helped ensure that certain amounts of vaccines are obtained. We sat down, as you heard about this priority, but in the explanation, from 05.03.2020 to 27.04. yesterday, the Council of Ministers held 79 sessions. Our main priorities are the reduction of the duration of the pandemic, and this requires the implementation of all epidemiological measures of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the acceleration of the vaccination process. Certainly... the vaccination process that the Kovaks mechanism and the EU will meet all their obligations through the delivery of vaccines, it is about two million and 200,000 vaccines and only expect them to be faster than they have done so far. It will be crucial whether, during this short time period, the entity will be able to obtain the appropriate amount of vaccines. By reducing focus on the pandemic, we need to focus on socio-economic reforms, on investment, on energy, on infrastructure, and capital projects need to focus because this will support job creation. The assessment of the GDP movement in Bosnia and Herzegovina is from 2.8% to 3.1% in 2021, and of our measures, what we will all do together depends on whether these goals will be achieved. I apologize that my argument differs from what was said in the opening note, but this explanation was made exactly as we received a document called the Answer to Interpletion. 46 My Lords, I thank you for your patience to hear me out. Of these 79 meetings of the Council of Ministers on the fingers of one hand, sessions could be counted which did not discuss the consequences of the pandemic on human health and on the economy of ours. Unfortunately, it will continue for all of us, and for you, and for me, to be part of our business work and for a future period of time. Finally, the budget, the Council of Ministers established BiH's '21 budget. A year. He is in the BiH presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your address. And now, in accordance with Article 176(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I also give to other MPs, on their request, so that they can intervene under this interpretation for up to 10 minutes. The same rule applies to both the interpellant and the one to which the interpretation applies. So I give my word to the MPs according to the order of reporting through the debate. Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9887	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kojović, in one, in my opinion, made an extremely correct and thorough statement of the position of all who are signatories to this interpretation. And I sign that whole discussion, I have nothing to take away. What I would add is only three small examples of the ineffectiveness of the Council of Ministers on topics where there is absolutely no political problem or reflection. Theme number one, stolen national monuments, or alienated national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we know are located in the neighborhood. I've been working on this subject, and I'm going to continue, of course, to deal with it, but you know how discouraging it looks when everyone knows everything, and nobody does anything, and the ministries are texting each other saying that nobody's responsible for it. Look, it's a national monument that we know where it's located, security agencies nothing, ministries nothing. Imagine what an ugly message it is, and everyone agrees, so there's no one defending the people who alienated it. No, everyone thinks the national monument of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be returned. Subject number two, I cite banal issues only for the sake of illustration of the Council of Ministers' dissuasion, the marking of official vehicles due to their frequent abuse. The Transport Ministry supports, the Transport and Communications Commission supports, the Council of Ministers supports, Parliament votes for more than a year, it's a banal thing, it's now to sit down for half an hour and find a way to realize it, it's not working for more than a year. And then after a year, the Council of Ministers began to transfer responsibility to each other and say it wasn't their task, although within the ministries they had already had people who had given the responsibility to do so. So, to mark official vehicles, it's a technical matter. And the drivers, if you had given the task, they would have done it by now. And everyone agrees. The legalization of cannabis for medical purposes, everyone agrees, and security, and civil affairs, and the entity health ministry, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, all parties, all nations, all right. But for, here's how long past term they haven't been able to, not do something about it, that they agree on, but they haven't been able to hold a meeting on a question that all 47 agree on and about something they know a lot about in different ways, unfortunately. They know that drug dealers earn money from citizens by selling them cannabis oil that is illegal, that dealers cure people for something that can only be solved if they sit on a date, so because they're like-minded, they have nothing to argue about. And everyone says in public that cannabis is legalized for medical purposes. Such examples of unhappiness, the absence of any empathy, the lack of serious Parliament, citizens, the demands of disreputed people, those whose rights are threatened, those who need to change some law, the rejection of the needs of businessmen to be translated into changes to the law, promises that are not fulfilled, cannot be an illustration of what the Council of Ministers has been saying now, but exactly what counterpart Predrag Kojović said in his, again, very qualitative presentation. I have a list of 20 at least topics that I could talk about as an illustration of the Council of Ministers' failures, incompetence, I don't know how else to judge. But since we all know this well here, and when we get out of this room, the representatives of the majority and the opposition speak openly, and, of course, I respect that you won't attack your party colleagues who are in the Council of Ministers, but there's no need for me to bring it all up. I can only say that I join or join, I hope I can speak on behalf of my clubmates because we didn't discuss this, the invitation of Predrag Kojović to Mr Tegeltija to resign. It's a great and only time to save yourself and your face since this Council of Ministers is a completely lost case and has completely lost every credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9888	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9889	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, after Mr. Kojović's opening statement, there was no need for additional data, however, something that Mr. Tegeltija spoke of in his presentation really requires that I remind him of his presentation from January 11th this year. At that time, there was a proposal for the replacement of the Council of Ministers, and the main reason was the failure of the Council of Ministers to obtain vaccines. January 11th, three and a half months ago, Mr. Tegeltija, I quote from a stenogram from that session of the House of Representatives, says – According to the latest information we received on the first dose, the first quantity from this continent of 1,232,000 vaccines will come by the end of January. At this point, we do not advertise the vaccine manufacturer, those vaccines that are most difficult to transport will come, which are the most difficult to keep, but those vaccines that are first registered in the world and approved for use. So, on the 11th of January, Mr. Tegeltija promised us 1,232,000 vaccines. Considering how he described them, it's obvious that he was talking about Pfizer's vaccines, and we can't even get Chinese vaccines. This really sounds like Fadil Novalić's speech at the airport that we got respirators that treat two patients at the same time. Three and a half months ago, 1,232,000 vaccines. Well, imagine if that were true, and then, I quote you again, you said -- the first dose, the first contigence, if we had really got that by now, the entire population, the entire population of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been vaccinated, because then I guess there would be another contigent, etc. 48 But now you come out here before us, complaining that something is not clear to you from the interpretation, although it is clear, we are still talking about that there are no vaccines, and you come back and promise us three and a half months later – here they are, right around the corner, hundreds of thousands coming. Well, how can we trust you? Three and a half months ago, you promised 1,232,000, I say again, the Pfizers back then, although you were careful not to advertise the manufacturer but clearly described – the hardest to transport, which is the hardest to keep, and there was zero. And now you want us to believe you, there's been zero when it comes to these procurements, we've received some donations, but more well-willed by those countries than any activities of the Council of Ministers. The second thing, and this is necessary again when it comes to what Mr. Kojović was talking about, because it is about this, you obviously need to make completely unfounded promises. Promise January 11th, 1.232,000 vaccines by the end of the month, and today we have none of these shows that your promises have been completely unfounded. Well, the same thing is with your work program. In July you adopt the Work Programme for, in July 2020, adopt the Work Programme for that year and promise 48 laws by the end of the year. Deliver zero by the end of the year, from that moment to the end of the year zero. Then in April, 15-20 days ago, you adopt a work programme for 2021. You increase your appetites, you promise 49 laws this time, and there's nothing from... and there's no indication it's going to be anything. And now I say again, that the matter should be worse, deliver to the Council of Ministers, which you chair, in the procedure of the Public Procurement Act, yesterday your coalition, and what is worst of all the delegates from your party, the SNSD, are voting against the Law that you delivered in the procedure. Well, human dignity at the very least requires you to say at that point -- without me, I don't want to be part of that game, I don't want to be collateral damage. That's why it's really the only solution for this Council of Ministers to resign, mostly because of the promises you make to us and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's the vaccine around the corner, that's 48 laws, that's 49 laws, and we get a big zero in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9890	Thank you, counsel. Representative jasmin Emrić called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9891	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will intervene on the part of the presentation of the Council of Ministers chairman, where the chairman misstated that the 2020 budget planned to help the health sector of 40 million KM. The 2020 budget planned a total amount of 41,927,000 KM but for the recovery of economic damages. And that's defined by Article 15. – financing economic damages, where it is determined that the BiH Council of Ministers will prescribe specific decisions for users, purpose, amount and method of use of funds. I've been searching to get information about the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers in terms of the spending of these funds. I did not find those decisions, but I learned from a statement from the Council of Ministers' meeting that the funds were allocated to help Bosnia and Herzegovina's healthcare sector of 37,474,000 KM. I think it is good and commendable that the Council of Ministers supported the health sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is most exhausted in every sense by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, both material and technical, and that is completely, completely justified. But the issue remains open, what about the real sector, 49, what about the most vulnerable sectors such as hospitality, tourism, transporters, and trade, whose business is at risk due to health epidemiological measures. The Council of Ministers has shown no activity, no interest to assist these most vulnerable activities. And I am generally not familiar with any measures taken by the Council of Ministers to help the real and production sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To the current most important and, in my view, the key question of how to preserve and maintain the health and economy of the Council of Ministers has not provided an answer so far, nor has there been any indication that it agrees and coordinates activities to establish a balance between health epidemiological measures and the sustainability of business operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers did not launch activities in due time to protect agricultural production, and I do not understand why the proposal for protection of agricultural production, which was recently held at the Council of Ministers' meeting, was not adopted. Since we do not know whether or not there is a plan by the Council of Ministers for the recovery of economic damages and economic recovery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will propose a conclusion which reads: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver within 60 days for the examination and adoption of the economic damage recovery plan caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the recovery of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2021-2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9892	Thank you, counsel. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9893	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and others present. Well, of course, the interpretation is one of the very important and useful parliamentary mechanisms that responds to the current topics, especially in this case to the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I know that as an MP in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, I have several times participated in the creation of interpretations to create certain current ones, particularly economic topics that are important for citizens and people living in this country. Not now entering many questions that need to be given certain answers will be very, very precise, short, and my opinion on the work of the Council of Ministers is well known. I don't think this Council of Ministers has been adequately exploited by those legal mechanisms that it has and that the result is visible in the House of Representatives sessions. On the fingers of one hand can count the legal solutions that have come from the Council of Ministers in these little over a year, now almost a year and a half as it has been appointed, that there is no initiative, no law, no proposal, no concrete measures, and that is clear to all and visible. And that's why we say for a reason that this is one of the Council of Ministers who's done very badly his job, i.e. He didn't do it, so it's hard to give a grade for something you can't measure. What I am interested in is an initiative adopted here at the House of Representatives in early December, personally proposed by fellow Members Mira Pekić and I in front of the Party of Democratic Progress, which is related to the amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax, when we received support from distinguished fellow MPs here in the House and when we obliged the Council of Ministers to submit within 30 days the amendments and additions to the Law on VAT to the House of Representatives, which would reduce the VAT rate from 17% to 5% for tourism, hospitality and passenger traffic which may be the most affected by this pandemic COVID-19, with a limited duration of this measure, very clear, measurable, until 31.12.2022. It has been more than five months for the Council of Ministers not to submit amendments to the VAT Act, and it has an obligation to do so because it has just given it the obligation of the House of Representatives to do so by 09.01. when 30 days have expired since that session when we have brought this, in my opinion, a very significant, concrete economic measure, which helps those who live, who are working, who are doing business in the areas of hospitality, tourism and passenger traffic, would mean that the state, or that the different levels of government, which result in VAT payments by the end of 2022, would specifically mean some 50 million KM, which is now less than 1% of total revenues collected at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the annual level. 1% is the 50 million marks that would remain on this basis in these sectors, and we are convinced that it would be some kind of and stimulating measures that maybe incomes would increase for these sectors because it would probably reduce the VAT rate and that kind of gray economy that is always present, especially in the areas of hospitality, would probably be even less, even lower. I am interested in finally making a clear answer why the Council of Ministers does not fulfil its obligations? Why didn't you provide us with the changes and additions of the VAT Act with all these economic, per se, positive effects that you would have for a large number of business entities operating within the tourism, catering and passenger traffic sector, because it's really unacceptable to ignore the decisions of the House of Representatives which, if anything else, are binding on you? This initiative, I repeat, has received support in the House of Representatives and I know that many who live on tourism, from hospitality and passenger traffic, and those who are employed in these activities, expect to finally adopt a law that, by a limited duration, would reduce the VAT rate from 17 to 5% by the end of 2022. To be more specific, if it were done today, it would be less VAT revenue at all levels of government in general than 75 million KM by the end of 2022. Our estimate is that by the end of next year in this period, a year and a half, about eight billion KM would have gathered from VAT, which means less than 1%. And I don't see any objective reason and an explanation for why this isn't working, especially if the decision has been made. And let Parliament speak again about this, and you should propose these amendments and supplement the law in accordance with the obligation given to you by the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9894	Thank you, counsel. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9895	Well, here, I must say, I have listened carefully to the reply of the Council of Ministers chairman and it seems to me that the most frequently mentioned word in the answers - help. Personally, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I feel humiliated because Bosnia and Herzegovina's moths and expects us to receive vaccines, vaccines, vaccinations and stopping this constantly present number of deaths solves someone else. We also heard here that the Council of Ministers took some 51 steps on the return of our citizens to Bosnia and Herzegovina after the outbreak of the pandemic. I must say that the Council of Ministers did not properly respond to this need for our citizens to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I know that as a club, we have submitted initiatives and that empty planes have come from other countries for their citizens, and that we have done nothing to bring our citizens back to Bosnia and Herzegovina. He could've, for example. serve Serbia well where thousands and thousands of citizens are returned to their own country. We've also been listening here, so, about COVID, we've heard about everything that's been done but what's notorous is that we still don't have mass vaccination and that the vaccine isn't there. When they're safe, we don't know because we're just listening here to them and they're planning and that, and safe, means the indicator that would tell us that we're going to get vaccines then and then there's still no vaccines. Unfortunately, another number of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina will suffer and die until the vaccines arrive. Also, here you are, saying what was done at the borders, but we still don't have the obligation of a negative PCR test at our borders for the citizens of the neighboring countries, and we know what the wave of the winter pandemic was when foreign citizens from other countries came here, so from the neighboring countries, to the ski resorts, and we saw how many diseases we had. We also did not receive any proposals to amend the laws on rationalisation and damages in order to make certain budgets available for the purchase of vaccines or other needs, therefore, which require this pandemic or for the resolution of damages caused by the COVID pandemic, but rather the opposition proposed those laws which, unfortunately, as well as so far, instead of adopting and removing certain privileges, to save themselves from being introduced, unfortunately fell on the House of Peoples, because it seems to me that this House and only because everything that is advanced in fact stopped. Also, COVID was in the work of the Council of Ministers and some continued justification for unhappiness, so let's say we won, I personally received answers to my parliamentary questions, in interventions and emergencyes according to the adopted conclusions of this House, yes, for example. The ministry of justice has not changed the Law on Labour in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a year, where only one member was to be amended. So, I don't know why the COVID pandemic would be a problem in adopting, or proposing, and creating and proposing legal solutions since legal texts can, of course, be written at home, so also if they are employees, if they work from home. So it seems to me, and this pandemic, therefore, was only a reason to find some justification for the failure of the Council of Ministers. There's a lot to say about diplomatic activities. So my impression is that it's better if they weren't taken and if we were just, I'd say, embarrassed in the world, they were going to beg again. Our foreign minister, whom we have only seen once in this House, is visiting Arab countries, I don't know what occasion and what is agreed and concluded there. I don't think there's anything agreed and concluded that would benefit us in this pandemic, while, for example, in Brussels, there are some non-papers, etc., so I think, honestly, I think it's better if she hadn't gone into these diplomatic activities. And I'd just like to say, here I am, uh, at the discussion of a respected colleague of the Damir Arnaut, so you yourself told us that in the Council of Ministers you don't propose laws for which you can't provide the majority in Parliament. It also says enough that you don't have, therefore, most of them, and that's one of the reasons why you really need to resign, because I don't think there are any segments of the Council of Ministers' work that we could be proud of and that we don't have any reason to keep this Council of Ministers working without even talking about the behaviour of certain ministers, the crown parties and so on even at the time of the greatest locdown at the beginning of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9896	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kojović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9897	I thank the chairman. I honestly didn't know which appropriate button to press, we would, I would ask for one break of 10 minutes to formulate the conclusion that we want to make when we, uh, vote on this agenda point. I assume you were also planning to take a break soon. If you have any way of keeping it all, uh, we're keeping our right to formulate and vote on it, and you're effectively leading this, of course I'm willing to listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9898	Thank you very much. Here, I'll take the opportunity right now, maybe on the initiative. We planned a break in the College, of course after this point of the agenda, but noting that, and also reminding also of religious feelings and rituals we tried somehow to make it as short as possible. If you agree, here I am now without consulting with my colleagues, it would be good for us to give one now short break of 15 minutes so that you can formulate your proposals, so we can try to get together with the session more effectively so that everyone here today who can fast on time on the iftar, and on the other hand, if we are not effective, then we'll have to continue the session, of course, another day, it's not possible tomorrow. So, here's my suggestion, by respecting what you've said, I hope your colleagues accept it, to take maybe one break now, if you've exhausted to give maybe a fellow chairman to turn around for a little while longer, and then take a break afterwards. Do you agree? Acceptable? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If there is no more discussion, to end the debate and then to give, to end the debate, to conclude that we give others the opportunity, so at this point, then to give a break. Here, let's say it's a break from, maybe half an hour away that those who are going to eat, it means they can do it during that debate. and that these proposals that we need to make known can be prepared, so, after that break. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9900	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9901	Do you have any fellow Snježana White proposals? 53
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9902	The question if the debate is over is that, then, it means there will be no application for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9903	Yes, yes, we would then conclude the debate, and later we would only be told about the proposals that arise from this debate, the proposals of the conclusions, because we are not voting on the interpretation, but on the proposals that came out of this debate today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9904	Oh, no, if it's a break, then it's a break, so after the break, maybe somebody's gonna be able to sign up for a hearing or sign up for a debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9905	Oh, no, I thought we'd end the debate, that still...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9906	Well, so to speak. If you're finishing the debate, let us report more who thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9907	No, no, I didn't do anything, you didn't do me, you misunderstood me maybe. Let's see if anyone has any more debates, he'll sign up. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9908	Thank you, Chairman. It's not really an abuse, I don't know what else to press, it just means that, like this, it's not a dispute when we have a break, it's just important that the break is within this agenda point, so we don't move to the next item of the agenda because we need a break to formulate conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9909	That's what we wanted, that's what we wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9910	And when you give it, how long will we leave it to you? So it's just important that we stay at this point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9911	So, we thought, once again, let's be clear, let's see the debate, let's conclude the debate, let's address the chairman and leave this break before we make a statement on the proposed conclusions. I hope we're clear now, because we plead immediately after this... 54 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, but after the break, we plead so that we can prepare the proposals and conclusions that have arisen. And now, of course, here's who wants to go through the debate. I don't see any more logs at this point, do you want to? Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9913	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here's something on behalf of the SNSD Club about interpellation. She met those expectations in the sense that, opposition MPs, or MPs who do not, a group of parties who support the current Council of Ministers' assembly, used their right to clear up everything they are not satisfied with and, uh, what they think they should or could have done better. It is really their right, but what we are obliged to do, we feel the duty to react, to really be in this, to explain the interpretation and guidance of the so-called. The argument has largely deviated from what is, in fact, the essence and role and competence of the Council of Ministers. So we had a chance to hear, I would call it a set of wishes and ideas, about what the Council of Ministers should do, and what we all know, who wants to read and face the constitutional arrangement of this country, that it is not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers at all. So health measures are mentioned here, are mentioned directly, support to certain sectors of the economy, mentions everything and everything, but respected dear colleagues almost most of what you have stated does not fall under the jurisdiction at all, domain of the Council of Ministers, and especially who wanted to and had the opportunity to meet a little. Here, in particular, I'm going to say something about the health sector, what is the real possibility and what is the real role of a particular sector that deals with it. At this point, health care is perhaps most important to all of us, he will have to admit that the sector within the Ministry of Civil Affairs is, of course, supported by the office of the chairman, etc., at this point did what he could and what was his job. So we haven't heard anything new. And besides what it really is, we feel from the SNSD as a duty to warn the public that an opportunity has been taken to talk about what someone imagines the Council of Ministers should do, not about the specific things that were his jurisdiction and did not. When it comes to getting the vaccine, I'm going to say something, we already have enough months behind us to analyze... the procedures and relationships of the job, I have to say that a group of public workers,...are also a number of MPs, has shown an extraordinary form of hypocrisy and bad relationship. Keeping in mind the facts and activities when, at the end of last year, when it might have been possible to access certain markets or certain vaccine manufacturers when all the bells are here, especially in Sarajevo, competed who would sooner say something bad about certain producers, certain products, etc., which brought together a part of Bosnia and Herzegovina into a rather bad situation when this job is concerned. I'm very careful of the words that I say when it comes to public health, vaccination, health impact, mortality, etc., because this is a subject that is very easy to manipulate, and in which you really won't find anyone serious, conveniently not the SNSD Club to join you here, because what SNSD had as a task to do at different levels of government has tried and done as much as possible 55 measures to do. And it was bad here, so in the Republika Srpska mass vaccination it still goes, it doesn't go with the dynamics we want, but it goes towards it, dear colleagues. When it comes to supporting certain sectors of the economy, we also advocate, we think it is natural and normal for it to be done as the Constitution has arranged. Also when it comes to indirect taxes, we advocate access to them to collect and then distribute directly where the most needs are. Therefore, you have the right, I do not dispute that, uh, to advocate, to initiate shifts that you do, but what I am really trying to do to you and what we are not going to do politically, of course, allow you to impose the powers of the Council of Ministers that do not belong there and to look for the culprits where they are not and to misqualify events and to present facts that do not stand. That's it. So, we're sorry, uh, maybe a little bit of what we've been going through for a long time, we've been expecting, the interpretation is such a nature, such a matter, everyone has the right to talk and criticize, but you're wrong because what you've already said wasn't at all, especially when it comes to public health, vaccination, etc., the jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers, who did in that business, did what was asked of him by the international mechanism and what was possible at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9914	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9915	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, of course, if you are really behind what you just said, then the SNSD itself should replace Mr. Tegelti, because it is not mentioned supporting certain sectors of the economy, nor the value added tax, it is already quoted as saying, or Mr. Tegeltija's exposés from the 5th session of the House of Representatives in which Mr. Tegeltija says – in accordance with the obligations of joint and socio-economic reforms for the period '19-'22. We will adopt the Value Added Tax Act in order to comply with the European Union Directive and support companies. There's nothing mentioned, Mr. Tegeltija was quoted. Now, since Mr. Tegelti is going to get a chance to answer me now wondering if he's still behind this sentence that I literally quoted from his exposé, or if that sentence came into conflict with his party's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9916	Thank you very much. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9917	Mr. Arnaut before you spoke to the men of six, seven men and of course you saw yourself in this address, which is also your right. I may not have been precise enough to express myself, I spoke most of what Mr. Borenović said, then several 56 speakers mentioned direct support to hospitality, hotel services, etc., which, uh, means we all know where and right. As to where and how it should be supported, this, which is done again in certain parts, in certain parts, is not a subject, but is not the subject of the Council of Ministers, but of the House of Representatives. As for the VAT Act, harmonisation, etc., none of it escapes, nor does it feel that this should happen, but it should happen in the way that the laws are intended, and my address was essentially some sort of response to those who respected the Council of Ministers not to support these more concrete economic branches, which he essentially cannot support from this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9918	Thank you very much, very much, very much. At this point, we don't have any more registered agents. Here, I would like to remind you that the chairman of the Council also wishes to give a brief answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9919	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Respecting your suggestions and having, here, and some of the private obligations that you've been talking about, I'm really just going to brief, just some facts to say, those that aren't true, not wanting absolutely to enter into political debates, replicas and so on, which was the most depicting this debate we've had so far. Mr Magazinović left, but once again at this session, this Parliament claimed that there was a consensus on the Cannabis Act and that only the Council of Ministers did not want to schedule the session and bring it in. To be honest with you back then, I was really embarrassed, and I really didn't think there was a bad communication between the two ministries within the Council of Ministers and we didn't do it. I also checked the fact at a meeting with the prime ministers of entities and health ministers, and it proved to be not true. It's definitely not true. It is tačan that I am in agreement and that the Council of Ministers is ready to work on this law, but there is no agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding this law. As far as face is concerned, each of us here is guarding his personal and political, and everyone is looking for different ways. I don't want anyone to give me lessons on this matter. And here, here by political this amphitheatre, the political cheek is shown in the elections. There have never been an election that I have never participated in, so it will be in the next election and the work of all of us will be evaluated by citizens very quickly. I don't understand why Mr. Arnaut always needs to quote me wrong. Is it with the intention that, I don't know why, I really can't believe Mr. Arnaut didn't understand that Bosnia and Herzegovina arranged a total quantity through the Kovaks system of 1,230,000 doses of vaccines, which should be approximately 50% of one, 50% of the other producer. No country in the region, no country, except for large countries, has received a million doses of Pfizer in one delivery. The entire Western Balkans received 650,000 doses of the vaccine to be delivered in four tranches. And it is not true that Pfizer was not delivered to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, almost a month and a half as it was delivered... The VAT question, I absolutely stand behind everything I said about VAT. The VAT law has long been prepared in a law-defined procedure. In the procedure in which the responsibility of 57 is carried by the first Board of Directors of indirect taxation, that all three finance ministers sitting there in the Management Board of the Taxation Authority are required to amend the Act. And that law is in line, and that law will come into the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly. In this House there were two or three proposals of the VAT Act which do not have the consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. But as long as this legislation exists, it is not possible to amend the VAT law without the consent of all three current finance ministers. And that's not gonna happen. Mr. Emrić, of course, 42 million were planned, two million secured for storage costs, transportation, etc., vaccines, and 40 million were found to be entities. I'm undermining 40 million marks again. It's possible to buy 22.5 million doses of vaccines. And if it's not the help of the Council of Ministers, I don't know what other help is. And you know how it's secured? It's provided in a way that... savings in a budget that you won't talk about, savings at the expense of travel, accommodation and everything else. You know, joint institutions have increased the budget by 30 million. I'm asking you to understand that we singled it out and... be. Could we have done more? Yes, that out of these 700, let's say, a million euros belonged 15% to the Council of Ministers, that's 100m euros. Do we think the Council of Ministers and the budget... can't pay back 100 million euros in 10 years? Yes, but it's not legally defined. There is no possibility that the Council of Ministers is in charge. And I didn't write that law, nor did any of these people sitting on the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers couldn't be in charge. For those 100 million euros, we could have intervened probably in many of the sectors that you were talking about here. Why there is no VAT law spoken of by Mr. Borenović. For the reason I said, the board of directors of indirect taxation. Proposal(?) The indirect taxation administrations said the bill is unacceptable, that the bill is harmful to the economy and to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that no one has applied such a solution in the environment. That's what we're gonna deliver you to. It is not possible for us to create a law against the negative opinion of the Management Board of indirect taxation. Help. Mrs. Lepić, I really don't remember using the word "help" too much, but I belong to that group of people who are very grateful to anyone who sees someone else and is able to give it to him, to give him help. And it will never be a problem for me to accept it, to ask, but at any time when Bosnia and Herzegovina can help someone like earthquakes in Croatia, Albania, Turkey, etc., every time we intervened, and none of us asked for help at that time. The return of citizens. It is not fair to accuse us of this, we have spent both money and time, and we have provided many things for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We provided air transport, and bus transport, provided interventions to Serbian citizens so that they could return via Sarajevo while the airport was still in Sarajevo, closed in Belgrade, to burn Sarajevo, and then... to get there. I really don't know which one of you can have a PCR test negatively introduced for citizens of neighbouring countries. I don't know why you insist, why every time you insist on the greatest religious holiday. And this year came before Easter Catholic and before Vaskrs. And every time, and this time, the healthcare workers said it wasn't necessary, and that's why we didn't make the decision. And as long as I'm in this position, I'm going to fight against our neighbors getting restrictions. We're small, we have to have communication. Most of our goods and services come from these neighbouring countries. Thank you very much. I am ready to discuss everything that the Council of Ministers does and at every point of the agenda. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9920	Thank you very much, Mr. President Tegeltija. Here, we've exhausted this debate on this agenda point. I suggest we take a half-hour break, so until 3:30. In the meantime, the proposings of certain conclusions that have arisen from the debate want to do so to be delivered to us, here, during this time of this session, so that, immediately following the follow-up of the session, the proposed conclusions continue with the work of the session. Thank you very much. I'll see you in half an hour. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, can we continue our work? There's a vote coming up, so I'm asking you to organize yourself by the clubs. Is it a problem, pal? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9928	In order to define an emergency procedure vote, we need to ask a few questions about the challenger. So this is a pompously announced law on the introduction of VAT bookies. Now, to define ourselves, we only have a few questions to clarify. First of all, let me say, we're absolutely in order for the bookies to be taxed. As far as I'm concerned, betting and bookies can be completely banned, but now we're talking about the law. We know that VAT carries the end consumer, so the citizen, in this case the player, is asking the question and that will tell us whether this should be an emergency or perhaps leave time. Who are you taxing with this law, a bookie or a citizen? Because there are different opinions, a number of people who are well understood in VAT say this won't even touch the bookies, because what they're taxing are profit taxes, licenses, concessions, and maybe it was smarter to think that way. But here's not to assume, let's give us an explanation of the player, the citizen who makes a move under this Act for a game – what changes and what it will look like tomorrow, who pays what today and who pays what if we adopt this Law? So I'm getting into the essence, but it's very important, the chairman, to clear this up so we can also vote on the procedure. And if you can tell if there's any experience in a similar way that this is regulated in the environment, in the countries of Europe, that's also useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9929	Thank you very much. Representative Adil Osmanović, please, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9930	Are we discussing emergency procedures? 61
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9931	About the emergency procedure, that's right, but my colleague said it would be an emergency, he asked you about emergency procedures to explain to him in order to define yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9932	Well, we're in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as a club of MPs referred to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, as we have stated here, to a high degree of urgency law, and that it was formulated in a simple way, which is what it is and we believe can and should be discussed by an urgent procedure. In our argument here, we have made it clear, that we appreciate that it is unfair and unfair and unsustainable that the way in which games are taxed against other goods and services, which are subject to taxation, is to be left out. What's our intensity, and then I can go wider, uh, discuss it when we say whether it's going to be an emergency procedure or some other shortened procedure, the urgency is that it goes towards those who organize games and prepare games of chance. Here I will only give you the information that in 2020 only in the Federation of BiH gambling directors achieved total turnover of more than one billion 35 million, with a reason that their income is lower than in 2019 by 22.5%. It's a huge number, and by our estimate, there'd be about 150 million convert marks somewhere, uh, budget revenue if we changed this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9933	Thank you very much. Representative Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegation, go ahead, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9934	Mr. Osmanović, I really ask you, we're on the same side and we want to tax the bookies, but let's just explain to us, so we know if we're going to deal with this urgently or if we're going to go to regulars, so we can talk about this. If I'm a betting player, I'm paying the stamp today and I'm betting on the games, what happens tomorrow when I want to pay the stamp, when you bring in the VAT, I'm paying the hose and the 17th. So, you didn't tax the bookies but me, so you're introducing a tax that will pay citizens, not bookies, and I'm in favour of dealing with how we're going to tax the bookies, and yet I'm telling you, it's not VAT, it's their profit, the licenses they pay, the concessions you have in some cases. So, please just let me get this straight, I'm a player, you're a bookie, I'm paying the stamp today and I bet, what happens when we adopt this? It's my understanding that I'm going to pay the stamp and I'm going to be 17 to play for the stamp. If that's the case, then I think we're on the wrong track in a joint desire to tax the bookies, but this is a proposal that looks to me like you're taxing the citizens, so please let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9935	Predrag Kožul, debate, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9936	So, here at first I will say, as I am a colleague of Magazinović, I am neither a friend of gambling nor of those who play games of chance, but if, just now, the chairman of the 62 Council of Ministers in his exposé has said one fact about amending the legal rules concerning indirect taxes, that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is in charge of all amendments to the legal rules in this area, Article 14. The law on the indirect taxation system makes that clear. So I think it's better for this legislative proposal, which, though, affects the reduction, at least at first glance, the overall rates of indirect taxes than for its increase, as well as for those laws that appeared in this House, which went in the second direction, in the direction of reducing the total, this, the sums of indirect taxes, so that it would be better for this law to pass here, I would say, a regular procedure, as well as a procedure of opinion or agreement of the Management Board for indirect taxation. It seems to me that this way the Law will be more passing and that it will be easier to come up with a legal solution that I generally support.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9937	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this proposal. Please state our request for an emergency procedure. Of the 33 present – for 17 against 11, abstention 5. There is a general, there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. We'll leave it for later consent for round two. That's when we exhausted the point four. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. A request by MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 0l-02-l-862/21, of 21.04.2021. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 22.04.2021. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Representative Magazinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9939	The very brief chairman, the law is very simple and regulates the financing of elections in situations where no budget has been adopted. We had recently when the local elections were, uh, current, the situation that they were, that they were prolonged for reasons because no budget was adopted. At that time, I will remind you, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija and Mr Bevanda have informed the public that money as such is not a problem, that there is a problem, but that there is no legal assumption that this money is being transferred, because the law only states that it is from the budget. This Law is very simple and it foresees that funding of elections will be unquestionable, i.e. that elections can be financed from both from and when temporary financing is in place. This Law also has a very important political force, and that is to enter into the process of amending the Election Law where it is already speculated that there will be attempts to blackmail by holding elections unless it comes out in the demands of amending the Election Law to those who are in a political situation and have 63 political power to stop holding elections or to simplify it, if it is not how we want there will be no choice because we will not adopt the budget. In order not to get into this situation and to get these things out of the table and not to discuss it, and also to disburse this process of negotiations on amending the Election Law, we have proposed this simple legal solution that will allow the elections to be held whether the budget is adopted or is in effect temporary funding.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9940	Thank you very much. No more reports, closing the debate on this proposal. Please state our request for an emergency procedure. Of the 31 present – for 20, v 10, abstention 1. There's a general, and there's no entity majority. We'll agree later. That's what we ended up with right now in the first round of point five. We're going to the six-day line, Ad. Six. A request by MPs: Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada of Mladina and Zukan Helez to consider the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 0l-02-l - 863/2l, of 2l.04.202l. The legislative sector delivered its opinion on 22.04.2021. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Representative Magazinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9942	Also, a law that is not complex, which provides for a reduction of the internal threshold on the lists from 20 to 10%, we have already had this proposal, seems to me in the past term, the political parties were more or less agreed on because it makes it easier for them to form ballots when all candidates have a more or less equal chance for citizens' votes to move within the list. This, this law corrects the imbalance that exists in certain cases between what citizens want with their votes and what the parties have set up by creating electoral lists. I think it is in the interest of the public, but we also offer political parties once more, and in time we are doing this legal solution which will result in the choice of those who received citizens' votes as a priority over where they were placed on the party list.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9943	Thank you very much. No more reports. 64 I ask you to make a statement about the motion to consider the Law by emergency procedure. Of the 31 present – 18 for, 11 v, 2 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority. Post-harvestance and the second round. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-l-478/21, of 23.02.2021. (second reading) That proposal for a law was adopted in the first reading at the 18th session of the House, held on 30.03.2021. The Constitutional Commission delivered the Report, the Committee adopted the Bill's proposal and no amendments were proposed. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. No reports have been made, MP Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9945	Chairman, I don't see that we have a proposing representative at this point, there are a lot of people out of the room right now, I may be wrong, but I don't see a proposing representative, and the Rules of Procedure make it clear that in the absence of the motion to discuss the act unless the House decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9946	We have concluded the debate in this section, your business finding is on the meat, but we have concluded the debate on this agenda point. We're going to point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (P.Z.E.I.), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-l-495/21, of 1603.2021, shortened procedure (second reading) That proposal for a law was adopted in the first reading at the 18th session of the House, held on 30.03.2021. The Committee on Finance and Budgets delivered the Report, the Commission adopted the draft law and nine amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9948	The very fact that this is my first violation of the Rules of Procedure by this point shows that I spoke of it within the previous point, therefore we have not concluded the debate, but here 65 is the same thing, there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers, as far as I can see and the Rules of Procedure are clear that the bill is not being discussed in the absence of the promoter unless the House decides otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9949	Are you ready for the House to declare whether, uh, we're going to open a debate on this proposal, a business provision and intervention is quite clear. Before, _________(?) ... He has a representative of the motion. [[no microphone turned on]] And there is. _________(?) ... Agency for.... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9952	You see, the Rules of Procedure also make it clear in the second provision that the Council of Ministers is either a minister or a deputy at the House session, this is not a commission phase that an agency representative or an assistant minister can do. So, the Rules of Procedure is a very clear representative of the House can be a minister or a deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9953	Thank you very much. That is correct, a business order representing, on behalf of, or on behalf of, the Proposer. We know there's a technical fact-finding processor here, and the Council of Ministers is proposing. Is the representative...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9954	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9955	Alma Čolo, did she, no, you gave up? Predrag Kožul? You gave up. Are you willing to let the House know if we're going to open a debate on this, in this House? Please let us know if we're going to open a debate on this without the Council of Ministers present. Of the 31 present – for 17 against 11, abstention 3. 66 There is a general, but there is no ethnic majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let's go. Let's make a statement in the second round. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9963	When it comes to this bill, I really must say that Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws are not fully respected, but I think the Law on Gender Equality is one of the laws that is least respected in this country, regardless of what certain sanctions exist in the event of non-compliance with the law. Article 20. The law on gender equality is clear, that the state authorities at all levels of the organisation of local self-government, including legislative, executive and judicial authorities, etc. Not to read the whole provision, to ensure and promote gender equal representation in governance, decision-making and representation. It is evident that this Council of Ministers meeting does not reflect the quota established by the Law on Gender Equality, which is 40% less gender represented. And what's even more devastating is the fact that there's never been any composition of the Council of Ministers or approached this 68-quota, so we have that since the formation of the Council of Ministers in four convocations, there have been no women, two in three convocations, including the current and two convocations, were all one woman at a time. Disrespecting the Law on Gender Equality was also one of the reasons why I did not vote for the current Council of Ministers' meeting. And, here, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers' Law provides that Parliament can neither be offered the composition of a Council of Ministers which does not reflect this quota under the Law on Gender Equality and that, even if it is offered, Parliament will not vote on such a Council of Ministers' meeting. I hope that this law will come, first of all, to support the MPs in this House, given that I believe that this goes beyond some party passing and that this is really about improving the status of women that are probably here, I think at least I stand for it, but we should advocate all of us women in this House, because we just have a declarative commitment to improve women's position, especially in political and public life, and then when we get to the point that some things can change, then nothing really changes. I would also remind myself that the members of the Bureau and party leaders, particularly those in power, were on the subject of the March 8th card to us women, and at that time most talk about gender equality, indeed said in a way that women should be given full equality in all segments of life, so Milorad Dodik also spoke in this regard, according to the presidency member Šefik Džaferović, also this Dragan Čović. So, here, if you really think that in this too, we should discuss this, yes, and Mr Komšić, of course, that we should also be discussed in terms of some party membership, here are the leaders of the parties, so we have made a statement that we women should enjoy full equality in all spheres of life, and here I hope that we will make a move. Of course, this change would have been applied since the next election cycle, so it would not have changed the current Council of Ministers' meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9964	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. The College's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representatives of Nenad Stevandić for inclusion in the agenda of the 18th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: The conclusion by which the Parliamentary House of BiH asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH to urgently, and for the longest seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (, the Official Messenger of BiH), No 58/08), as well as the adoption of the relevant amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and way of granting marketing authorisations (, Official Messenger of BiH), No 75/11, with the aim of enabling the vaccine against Coronavirus (COVID-19), whose use of which may be approved immediately by the European institutions and institutions in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These amendments and additions to that law and sublaw would apply until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, number: 0l-50-1-716/21, from 31.03.2021. 69 After last session of the House did not require an entity majority in the first round of the House College vote as a committee did not reach agreement on the proposal of Stevandić. A report from the College's committee you've received. The debate is closed, and we remain to come forward later in the second round of voting on the proposal of parliamentarian Stevandić. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, issue 0l/3-50-l-118/21 of 01.02.2021, 2) Report on the work of the Committee on Transport and Communications, issue: 01/5-50-l-218/21, of 02.02.2021., 3) Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, No: 0l/2-50-l-218/21, of 03.02.2021., 4) Report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget, No: 0l/4-50-l-218/21, of 09.02.2021.5) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, issue: 0l/l-50-l-21, of 03.03.2021, issue of the Law of Gender: 621.21.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9972	I thank the chairman. What is very indicative of the report, which I spoke about yesterday at the Commission on Finance and Budget, which I attended in accordance with Rule 7(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which allows an MP who is not a member of the Commission to take part in a debate without the right to vote, is that the current governor took office in that position on 11/08.2015. If we look at the period, the five-year period, i.e. the six-year period prior to its term of office of the Central Bank, was on average 35 to 40 million marks per year, so 2010. - 33 million, 2011. - 45 million, 2012. - 34 million, 2013. - 30 million, 2014. - 35 million and then 2015. - 31 million, he takes office that year in August. The first full year in which he is on duty in 2016 has fallen to 14 million, so from 31 to 35 million in the previous five years to 14 million. Then 2017. – 12 million, 2018. - 8 million just, in 2019, there was a 22 million-dollar jump, but that is, the increase was due to what the governor yesterday at the commission meeting and accepted, the result of the sale of securities and this was a short-term profit increase measure and then in 2020, which is the subject of the Report, 7.9 million. So why did I now give these parallel data for five, ten, eleven years? So that someone wouldn't think that in 2020 the profit fell due to the effects of the pandemic. So, these 7.9 million 2020s are retail identical to 8.4 million in 2018, pretty close to 12 million in 2017, and in any case, there's a huge difference compared to this year before the current governor took office. When I say the bitter difference, I mean the fall of 74.79% compared to the period before he took office. What is also indicative is that during this same period, which is preceding the six-year period preceding its appointment, it was exactly the same number of Central Bank employees, so this is all the data from the official BiH Central Bank reports, in 2011, 354 employees, in 2015 also 354 employees. However, for the first full year after the current governor took office, we have a jump to 361 employees and then continued one growth, so that at the end of 2020 it would be 371, and according to what the governor said yesterday on the commission, the number has already been further increased in 2021. In any case, there is no increase in the number of employees over a period of five years who are preceding his takeover, and we have a profit of, or profit of, about 35 million each year in those five years, 72 and then after his takeover of office we have 74% drop in profits, however 5% increase in the number of employees. In addition, according to official data, the governor of the Central Bank of BiH is the most paid manager of a BiH-level institution. The next governor is the President of the Constitutional Court with as many as two thousand marks less than the governors, and then the other judges of the Constitutional Court come, and then the President of the BiH Court, and only then under the members of the BiH presidency. Now you see, yesterday the governor on the commission said that he had nothing to do with his salary, that he inherited that salary and that he himself had not increased, and said that the decline was due to the negative economic consequences on the world market, etc. which may be accepted, but if the governor has noticed negative economic consequences on the world market, and has not found it appropriate to at least cut his salary, it shows that we have an irresponsible management of the Central Bank of BiH. Speaking of these, is it, uh, heirlooms, so here I am in this House inheriting the right to white bread, the right to commission fees, so I immediately abolished them as soon as I entered the last meeting. The state has thus saved already 7.5 million converting marks, according to official data from the BiH Finance Ministry, 7.5 million in the last five, six years, and this will continue each year. And the governor is looking for an excuse for a 73% drop in profits, and then he says he has nothing to do with his salary but inherit it and he's perfectly fine with what he calls, whether, uh, the consequences of the economic crisis keep that salary. Also, this is not only the report on the financial operations of the Central Bank of BiH but it also has a report on the activities of the Central Bank of BiH in 2020 and has one, one chapter, the whole chapter of the report on public relations and there is talk about, in the pandemic year, the inability of journalists to enter the building, etc. However, there is not a single word on the subject that marked public relations when it comes to the Central Bank in 2020, and this is the plan to build a new Central Bank building in one of the few parks that remain in Sarajevo, which are not yet concrete, not a word about it. And the governor thus shows a complete lack of feeling for citizens' demands in Canton of Sarajevo, the Centre Municipality elections were determined in many ways by the fact that past government in the Centre municipality sold a green location, a park location to build a concrete building. Chief Ajnadžić would certainly lose those elections regardless, but would not lose them, would not experience the debacle he experienced, so seventy to twenty-something and completely neglecting the results of the election, and thereby directly neglecting the citizens' sense of this issue, the governor refuses any possibility of finding an alternative location I end up here, and it shows a total lack of hearing for the interests of citizens and for the democratic processes in this country, and it does not reduce its wages, although it uses as an excuse why it has a reduced profit by 73% of the alleged consequences of the economic crisis in the world. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9973	Thank you very much. Representative Bursać-Novaković-Novaković, debate, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9974	Thank you, Chairman. A few words about why SNSD will not support the Central Bank's 2020 report, and the key reason is because, in the first few months of 2020, the Central Bank's Management Board was not established in accordance with the Constitution and the Central Bank Act, since in the first four months of 2020, two members of the Governing Board from Republika Srpska were not appointed in the first four months of 2020. That is, of course, a bad situation, but what came out of the work of such a board of directors is even worse. In this period, several important but harmful decisions were made by the Central Bank, and I will tax them. Namely, the Central Bank's funds paid for the land on which it was planned to build this facility mentioned by a colleague, so the Central Bank facility – Sarajevo's main unit at the site of the Hastahan park, amounting to about five million. The building of the facility, as we all know, is a question of genderism in the public, but what we are warning is that the views expressed by the governor in this regard and the official communication with the competent authorities are not really attitudes discussed and are not attitudes agreed on by the Management Board. Namely, the BiH Central Bank Management Board has never discussed this issue, nor has it made any decisions. Therefore, without considering and making decisions on the Management Board, an idea solution for this building was also paid. Also, contrary to the long-standing practice that has been established since the establishment of the Central Bank, a series of decisions, as well as a number of disputed internal acts, such as some rules, have been adopted by the revote of members of the Governing Board coming from Republika Srpska, including the appointment of a vice governor from the Bosniak people. Also, with the support of the members, some members of the board of directors who came from the Federation took on a number of activities that went directly to the damages of interest both Republika Srpska and BiH as a whole, and above all, I would point out, therefore, taking into account that in 30.05.2019, the Central Bank Management Board's meeting had passed a decision to permanently resolve the issue of accommodation of the Pala, so the decision was taken, and the director who, by law, was in charge of implementing the Board's decisions did not realize it, and for all this time continued to pay rent to a private person at the monthly level of 3,800 marks. Also a bad situation when we all have in mind the pandemic, was next, in the crucial period of the last four, five months of 2020, when the crisis was caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, the Central Bank Management Board, which then worked without members of the Governing Board from Republika Srpska, did not take a single measure aimed at easing the effects of the crisis, particularly the initial negative psychological effect, although all central banks were reduce the minimum reserve rate and take other measures. [[Embassy is warned on time]] I will not continue not to take up time, I think I have made more than enough arguments as to why this report does not deserve support and why the SNSD Club will vote to vote and we think that they are based on facts and that everyone should really imagine what this institution is doing and in whose interest and whose benefit it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9975	Thank you, counsel. No more reports, here and the governor will turn around, so it's not at the beginning, but here's your chance, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9976	Thank you, Chairman. 74 Honorable MPs, MPs, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, sorry the rain is out there and crowded. I'll krenuće with what I heard, I'm sorry none of this is true, I have to be specific. So, as far as the Palace is concerned today, a decision has been made to buy that space, procedures exist and so we respect it. The second thing, related to the building, or the site of Hastahan, is all done in accordance with the law, everything is implemented and it is all on the public procurement plan and it is on the public procurement page of BiH and it is in the financial plan for this year, based on last year. We bought the place, we paid the rent, and we're the legal owners of that place. Thirdly, please just, I can't remember what you are, regarding the Vice-Governor, there was no voting, three are for, two are abstentions, because colleagues in the Serb people's order asked us to replace both the Serbian people's deputy governor and we couldn't do it because it wasn't in accordance with the law. So that decision is legal, can we make a decision with three votes "yes", it's completely correct. I hope I offered those answers. With regard to Representative Arnaut, if what I did not hear, I apologize, if what was yesterday, please, the Central Bank is doing very, very, very successfully, fulfilling everything that is its legal mandate, a stable currency, a stable monetary system, we contribute in the best possible way to financial stability in BiH and have fully fulfilled what its mandate is in the past and this and all the years so far and I am very proud of it. For our result, we have received a lot of rewards, recognitions, for our result has been assessed by the highest rating by international financial institutions, we fully work in line with best practices, with what other central banks in Europe are doing when it comes to monetary policy and what our only instrument is a mandatory reserve. As for the difficulty in business, the negative interest rate today is minus coma 47 on average, never the larger foreign reserve amounted to 14 billion. Ten years ago, they were 6.5 billion, and the interest rate was 2%, 2% plus six billion was 90 million plus. If today's rate of contribution... applied to 2010 that revenue would be three million, if the rate of ten years ago applied to today's reserves would be close to 200 million, it has nothing to do with us, it is, that is, such opportunities in the financial markets, such consequences are suffered by all, and please, you have understanding, thank you, because I would actually talk about the difficulties that the Central Bank of BiH faces, and also manages in such conditions to carry out a positive business and to fulfil what its mandate is. I repeat, a stable monetary system, a stable currency, trust in the domestic currency, payment systems function impeccably, over 100 billion traffic across payment systems, a fiscal agent, we perform that function at best. You witnessed last year the pressures on the Central Bank when it comes to the arrangement with the IMF, we perform the role of co-ordinator with the agencies, all in all, I am very proud of the results we have achieved and what I am headed by such an institution and young people, hardworking people, responsible people who work, employees in the Central Bank. The Governing Council, right, the Bureau replaced two members so the court returned, and it changed again, so it appointed, but all the time we worked in continuity without delay and made measurement decisions and we have an enviable result. We have actively participated in negotiations with the European Union... to carry out these tasks, we have talked to all international institutions, ratings houses, we have maintained rating status with prospects and just thanks, read these reports, we have this retained rating to the Currency Committee. Secondly, please, I have found the governor's salary and I am glad to repeat that question and that question is already being repeated in Parliament, we have given the answer and it is in the documents. I didn't set my own salary, whoever the governor is will have the same coefficient of 75 and the same salary, it's an institution and it's such a responsibility, and believe it's a huge responsibility, now I've said, 14 billion is, are foreign exchange reserves, the processes are very responsible etc. In this period we even cut 10% of the salary to all employees, we exposed, preserved our people when it comes to pandemics, held business processes and gave the best possible contribution to society through our work and through what we did. I don't know if I offered, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9977	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9978	Thank you, Chairman. So here's the governor talking about the economic consequences, he reiterated this excuse for a fall to get the Central Bank, and then he said something that is really indicative, he says -- that's what everybody's suffering. But you didn't, you didn't cut your salary, you didn't suffer the consequences, you suffered the BiH budget, you suffered BiH citizens indirectly, but you don't suffer. So, it's, if what's correcting the wrong quote, it's this that everybody suffers such consequences, because the governor doesn't suffer, doesn't cut his salary, and we hear, is that he was, uh, cutting the salary to the workers. However, while you are already calling for reports from international institutions, you did not mention in this report the IMF report, in its latest report for 2020, why it took three years for the Central Bank of BiH to transfer the entire burden of the negative interest rates they are paying, to transfer the burden to commercial banks. To clarify, the Eubor became negative -4, and then -5, so this is the interest the Central Bank paid on its assets held outside, but the Central Bank waited three years to transfer this burden to commercial banks, in 2016 there were only –20 points of interest on commercial banks, and only in 2019 it was raised to –50. This means that since the Central Bank of BiH started to charge the same interest it pays from commercial banks only in 2019, nearly three years late in which the Central Bank's profits suffered, as the Central Bank's cost was higher than the profits it had, the commercial banks were of course fit, but it did not correspond to the Central Bank of BiH, it did not correspond to the BiH budget, it did not correspond to the citizens of BiH. When it comes to salaries, what does 371 employees really do at the end of 2020, and we have heard that in this year that number is even increased, when the Central Bank does not have a bank supervisory role, or monetary instruments, why does that number of employees in your mandate grow each year, why is the average net salary of 2,600 marks and why is it active by an employee significantly less than other central banks that have board withdrawals? To be clear, I don't compare this to banks in Croatia, Serbia, fourteen, fifteen countries still have board withdrawals, and when you look at all this, you can see that We have a big problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm going back to what you didn't mention in your report that the IMF was warning you in your latest report for 2020 that you didn't finish what I was just talking about negative interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9979	Thank you very much. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome the MPs. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9980	Thank you, Chairman. Well, the governor, in fact, started his exposure to a sentence about not being exactly what I said, just confirmed it was true. As for the solution to the palace space, so here's almost two years you had, uh, behind you to solve that question, you didn't, you said, here, now it's settled. Secondly, I don't know, I'm not telling you what was going on in your public procurement plan or anything like that, about this land and the building on, in which you have the idea of making, but I say and I say that everything that was done, the decisions in this case were not taken and there were no views discussed and agreed on the Management Board, and whether it was the right practice or not, someone else is determining. And also when I took my word, I have a duty to point out, also one completely unnecessary, illegal and unconstitutional activity that you took and which has brought us all together into one bad position, and it concerns the activity that you have without consulting members of the Unsuspecting Board of Republika Srpska and without legal basis, and it concerns activities in establishing a single register of accounts of natural persons in the Central Bank. You also conditioned a completely illegal and inappropriate signature of yours on a memorandum of debt with the IMF knowingly ignoring existing laws and constitutional jurisdiction in this area, which you had absolutely no right to do. So I was just making arguments that you didn't kill, why the SNSD club wouldn't support this report and why it would deal with this problem in public and in any other appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9981	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Please don't, you've got a chance to say don't lead the controversy with the MPs. They, of course, finally have the right to say what they think. This concludes point 19. Let's go to point 20, Ad. 20. Report on the work and financial report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2020, issue: 01,02-50-18-740/21, dated 31.03.2021. The report was submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Postes of BiH and the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration. The college responsible for considering that report has been designated by the Committee for Transport and Communications. The Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion and adopted the Report. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 21, Ad. 21. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2020. year, number: 01/4,01-16-9-769/21, of 07.04.2021. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9985	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I have applied very rarely or almost never to hurt the Rules of Procedure out of desire to point out to Mr. Arnaut that four or five points have passed today without any suggestions. If he's reacted before, something strange to me that he hasn't thought of any of these others. Here, and the previous point, and this one, and that one about Derk. So, there were no proposings, and he didn't think of it, so I'm surprised he didn't remember. So, there's not even a promoter here, whether we're going to discuss it or not, and not at these points that were, so I just, well, I just kind of took a good look at the fellow who's taking care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9986	Thank you very much, but everyone's business right to point out that, so will we, so let's go to point 23, zastupnik Arnaut, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9987	...that's not true, Mr. Lovrinović. You saw that I tried the first law, so the chairman didn't approve of it, but it's the duty of the College and the Chairman of the House to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. And now, if you think I know what a representative of the postal traffic agency's office looks like and I can tell you specifically whether he's among those seven-eight people there, I don't know. Because you named them, you should probably know what these people look like, right, so if you notice a absence point to that. But in 78 of each case, the Rules of Procedure are very clear – the chairman of the House, together with the vice-president, is responsible for the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure, and I quote from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9988	Representative Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9989	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So Mr. Arnaut said that he was responding to the first law, so you wouldn't let him. He was late at first law, as far as I could understand, so the debate was closed. I'm well-intentioned, you don't owe me, I agree, but you're very, uh, careful when you're interested or when you're not interested, or maybe even if I'm not pretentious that only when the HDZ ministers are involved then remember that they're gone. We don't even have a security minister. If you're going to discuss this agenda item, Madam Chairman, then I'm reporting for debate. If we don't, then we're voting again whether we're going to discuss it or not, since there are no representatives, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9990	No more reports. I ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make a statement on point 22. Are we going to discuss it without the motion, since we do not have the presence of the Ministry of Security? Please make a statement. Please state whether or not we're going to discuss this without the applicant's presence, the House decides. Of the 25 present – for 10, against 12, abstention 13. There's no general majority. I find that we will not open the debate at point 22. We've concluded that means it. We're moving on to point 23, Ad. 23. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to comply with the text of the Law on Temporary Measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH), Law No 01,02-02-1-865/20, of 29.04.2020. The law on temporary measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other bodies during the state of natural or other disasters on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory was adopted in a different text in the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, and it is necessary to appoint three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to comply with the text of that Law. He appointed the House as members of the Joint Committee, the House of the Peoples of Envoys – Sredoja Nović, Bariš Čolak and Asim Sarajlić. The proposal of the College of the House is that the Joint Committee from the House of Representatives – Alma Čolo, Nikola Lovrinović and Obren Petrović are appointed. 79 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 24, Ad. 24. The appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, the ranking of the Committee for Elections and the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, number 01-34-1-915/21, of 28.04.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9994	We did not deliver written – Saša Magazinović SDP. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9995	Okay, Saša Magazinović SDP. zastupnica Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, jasmin Emrić, excuse me, I apologize to the representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9996	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Since the proposed conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation is discriminating against us by representatives who are not in any club and who have the status of independent representatives, I propose the conclusion of the conclusion of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH election legislation. Article 1 Article 2 The conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH election legislation is complemented by the following: - An interresor working group from Article 1 of this Conclusion will be appointed by one representative of each of the MPs' clubs in the House of Representatives, each of the independent MPs of the House of Representatives, one representative of every national club in the House of People and three representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Article 2 In Article 3 (1) Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend BiH electoral legislation behind regular number 8. the following regular numbers are added: 9. Edita Đapo, independent MP to the Alliance for a Better Future, SBB, 10. Mirsad Kukić, Independent MP of the Movement for Democratic Action, PDA, 11. jasmin Emrić, an independent MP for the Party of Democratic Activity, ASDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9997	Thank you very much. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9998	Thank you, Chairman. Here is the printed material which, on behalf of our club, is a proposal in front of the SNSD Club in the Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać representative house.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u9999	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 26, 81 Ad. 26. Considering the representative's SDA club's parliamentary initiative: "We propose that the BiH Defence Ministry for the Parliamentary House of BiH draws up a report on the working conditions of members of the Armed Forces, including their official, personal, family and overall social standards, and that it eventually proposes measures to improve the standards of members of the Armed Forces of BiH", issue: 01-50-l-418/21 of 1602.2021. The College of the House of Representatives has appointed a Joint Defence and Security Commission to consider that initiative. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion. The commission didn't support the initiative. I'm opening a debate on a representative's initiative. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 27, Ad. 27. A review of the Aida Baručija parliamentary initiative, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Saša Magazinović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, who is requested that the task force for the fight against human trafficking and organised illegal immigration, through the BiH Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers, submits a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the period 2018-2020", number: 0l-50-l-496/21, of 24.02.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10002	I thank the chairman. It's very short to refer to this opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. In this opinion, there is one error in attitude (1) because it is completely wrong, the wrong initiative is written. The opinion says that we have proposed an initiative suggesting that the BiH Ministry of Defence for the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, etc., so this is a mistake, it is likely that it remains in the making of the Opinion on the initiative that is listed here. The proposed conclusion, it is essentially compatible with our initiative, so that if this conclusion is accepted by the House of Representatives, that is, if we declare it 82, it basically means that the aim and purpose of our initiative has been achieved. I therefore propose that the House of Representatives be made known about this conclusion adopted by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10003	Thank you very much. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 28, Ad. 28. The discussion of Vlatko Glavaš' representative initiative, which reads:, "In view of the historic success of 15-year-old swimmer Lane Pudar from Mostar, who, by sailing A Olympic norm in the 100-metre dolphin's discipline, has set the best score in the history of Bosnianhercegovic swimming and the second best score in the world this year, I propose to the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers that this success adequately rewards. Also, I propose that Lani Pudar be provided with money for preparations and performances at the upcoming Olympic Games to be held in Tokyo", number: 0l-50-l-628/21, since 15.03.2021. The College of the House of Representatives has designated the Committee for Finance and Budget as responsible for considering that initiative. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion. It supported the initiative. I am opening a debate on this initiative. You're in Glavaš of this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10005	I'm not going to repeat what you've already read, the essence of this initiative, but I'm just going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to support this young girl, her Olympic score and, of course, her trip to the Tokyo Olympics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10006	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 29, Ad. 29. Consideration of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which is committed by the Council of Ministers to achieve savings in order to optimise the public procurement process and thereby increase the level of responsibility in spending budget money in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall form a central purchasing body within 90 days, in accordance with Article 4(2) of the Law on Public Procurement and Article 2 of the Law on Public Procurement. Regulation implementing procedure 83 of joint procurement and establishment of a central purchasing body), number: 0l-50-l-684/21, of 23.03.2021. The College of the House of Representatives has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider the initiative. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion. It supported the modified initiative in a way that the word "binding" is changed in the word "proposed" and the deadline is 180 days instead of 90 days. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10008	Thank you, Chairman. Here, very shortly in front of the promoter. Therefore, this is an initiative which requires the Council of Ministers to simply act in accordance with what has already been made possible by the Public Procurement Act, so to act in accordance with Article 4(2) of the Public Procurement Act and Article 2. Regulation implementing the common procurement procedure, setting up a central purchasing body. To be perfectly clear, it is a central purchasing body at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to enter other levels of government, and to fully simplify the central purchasing body means that if you need to have toners, printing paper, pens, etc., we have nine, plus the chairman of the Council of Ministers and a number of agencies, etc., all of these are obtained by the central purchasing body, and not by each individual ministry for themselves. There is no need to explain at all how much savings can be achieved, because it would all be centralized in one place. And the other thing, it's a very well-known fact, is that when you arrange for more purchases of any goods, you get a better price. Therefore, this is already something that has been made possible by the current Law and Regulation, the Council of Ministers should only put it in the process and update it, and savings would be huge in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and those savings could be channelled into much more meaningful things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 30, Ad. 30. Review of the parliamentary initiative Mire Pekić, which is represented by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with Article 35. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the BiH Official Messenger, issue: 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08) obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve, within 90 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, the issue of evaluation of civil servants who are justly absent from work, in such a way as to ensure the application of the already existing legislative solution referred to in Article 53a(3) of the Law on Labour in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or, in the event that this is not possible, to provide in the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the section relating to the assessment of the work of civil servants justly absent from work", number: 0l-50-l-699/2l, of 24.03.2021. 84 The College of the House of Representatives has appointed a Constitutional Commission to consider that initiative. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. It supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Mira Pekić. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10011	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll do it for a while, just to make this initiative concrete. So, this initiative is required to apply, to enable the Council of Ministers to apply the Labour Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in the evaluation section, i.e. the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a discrepancy. In fact, people who are justly absent, I primarily think of women who are on maternity leave for a period of time, while they are on leave, or are not evaluated by their executives. This is, of course, one discrimination against women who are on maternity leave and all those who are on a legitimate leave, and because the Law on working in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides that those who are justly absent, and I repeat here I really think of women who are on maternity leave, should get, should be assessed in accordance with the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an assessment they had in the previous period. So this isn't saying that it should be any of the proposed evaluations for officials, it's saying that it's the evaluation it's made, which is achieved by that woman who's on maternity leave in the previous period. In this way, we would also allow women on maternity leave and other legitimately absent civil servants to advance in the service and all other rights and privileges that come from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10012	Thank you very much, very much, very much. No more reported by this initiative, agenda item. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 31, Ad. 31. Statement of elected representatives (names) on the condemnation of any hate speech and apology if any of the present unwittingly or intentionally offended anyone, or if, as an offensive statement, anyone as such understood, with the construction and condemnation of all possible former and future such statements, by any party in the leadership of the parties to whom the representatives belong, including their presidents, the proponent: Representative Zlatan Begić, No: 01-50-1-15-19/21, of 28.04.2021. We placed this item at today's session on the proposal of Representative Zlatan Begić. The material we've got is this proposal I have. 85 I'm opening a debate and I don't see that in any way we can or should plead. But here it is, MP Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10014	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. I don't think you know what we're saying. We know what kind of situation we've come up with here. I guess Mr. Begić wrote this in a hurry and we have a agenda point that we can't say about. People's MPs, as you know, declare laws, resolutions, declarations, conclusions, and here we plead a conviction. So it's not even possible to have a serious debate about a proposal like this. My suggestion is that Mr. Begić withdraw this and rephrase it because he knows it. I understand why he suggested this and in what way... that this should be done. This isn't the only reason I said it. We were in the debate that preceded this proposal by Mr. Begić, we could hear all sorts of things, and inappropriate words in this House. And in this proposal, Mr. Begić, we have words like insults, as difficult statements, etc. We've shown multiple times that we don't think the same thing as hard statements. And then there's something like this that needs to be avoided. Furthermore, in this proposal, Mr. Begić, we are going back and going back to the future, which is absolutely impossible. Well, who's going to apologize for what was done in the past, and there are people here who have been on the political scene for over 20 years and they don't remember what they said, and they said it in other conditions. So it's not possible, and it's not possible in the future as it is formulated. And one more thing, in the end, it was quickly written that this also applies to the leaders of political parties, and just a minute before this proposal, you have amnesty. So we can't talk like that. So, the same majority that voted to make this happen, before that, voted to amnesty one. So, if we are to discuss these things seriously, and we need to talk in Bosnia and Herzegovina seriously, and especially in this House, then we cannot plead a conviction. That's why my proposal, Mr. Begić, is to withdraw this, reshape it, make it into another act that can be good and that we can have a serious discussion about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10015	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Zlatan Begić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10016	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. In part, there are also truths in what counterpart Radmanović said. This was a kind of reaction to what was happening here in front of us, on the one hand. On the other hand, I made clear on this point and pleaded as I thought and how I could plead to the other fellow MPs, which is that in my personal name I apologized if I hurt anyone deliberately or intentionally or if someone understood someone talking to me with hate, don't give Bog, and condemned all those who act like that. So I think this is quite wide-ranging and that anyone can possibly say something like that or say it. But it also says that it can be rephrased, so it is proposed at one of the next sessions in the form of some 86 acceptable paper only if we do not discuss it, as we discussed today, because it is a completely counterproductive visa for the future that we have to build together here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10017	Your Honor, did we realize you're pulling this part now?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10018	I don't know if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10019	We hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10020	So, I've already made my point, and here's the second time I've pleaded on this initiative. If anyone else wants to make a statement, they can. Of course, no one can be forced to stand up personally and plead, and a proposal can also be considered at a future session in shape as Mr Radmanović suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10021	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10022	Coli Radmanović had a very correct discussion, he is usually very correct with all of us, only part of me disagreed and I want to correct him, which is that most have amnested someone from something. So we're not talking about the metrics at all, but the majority of you, who you're experiencing, said that we're not going to choose as the mature pears we're going to talk about, but if we're going to talk about the hate speech, then we're going to talk about all those who use them, and we've cited examples that there's a lot of them. So we're not any judgment to amnesty, we didn't actually get to talk about it. The rest I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10023	Thank you very much. Is Agent Zlatan Begić an ox for debate or?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10024	No, no, I said what I had.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10025	Okay, thank you very much, because we see it on the monitor. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. 87 Before we move to point 32, I suggest we bring together the discussion of points 32 to 35 because it is about giving consent to ratifying material. Please vote on the pooling of the debate on points 32 to 35. Of the 35 present – 28 for, 4 against, 3 abstained. There's a general and entity majority. I find that we have united the debate by points 32 to 35. Ad. Thirty-two. - Ad. 35. Giving consent to ratification of agreements and amendments The Foreign Affairs Committee delivered its opinion. The commission has given the opinion that the previous conditions have been met that the House of Representatives give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate on points 32 to 35. Representative Branislav Borenović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10027	Thank you. Here, I'm going to take the opportunity to say a few sentences about one of these united agenda points regarding granting consent from the ratification of certain agreements, contracts, changes, loans, which are determined by certain previous actions by the same House. I will Govorić specifically about the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the recovery and support project for enterprises, i.e. Business entities in Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, since this is a... agreement involving both the Federation and the Serbian and agreed that it is ratified in the way it was proposed right here in the House of Representatives. It is 56m euros that will be used to support businesses and business entities through the Federation of BiH Development Bank and through Republika Srpska's Investment and Development Bank compared to 66m KM being used through the Federation of BiH Development Bank and 44m KM through the Republika Srpska Investment and Development Bank. Why am I saying that, or is it rarely anyone who reports for the interpretation of these agreements that are essentially ratified here at the House of Representatives almost unanimously? From several very important facts that correspond to this current moment that we have witnessed in the previous days, a heated debate about the duties that occurred in the previous period. In particular, the duties that occurred over the past few months and the last since ten days ago in which Republika Srpska was in charge on the London Stock Exchange of 600 million KM bond emissions, at interest rate, i.e. on the contribution guaranteed at 4.75%, i.e. 5.02%, which according to us is one-off debt, interest rate, green and six or seven times the price or interest rate of today's market value. And that's exactly what this loan agreement is saying where Republika Srpska and the Federation are jointly in debt for 110 million KM, means six times less, at the interest rate, as told by the finance ministry's representatives, believe it or not, 0.37%, 0.37%. It is also a grace period of five years and has a one-time fee of 0.25%, showing this market relationship and the reference interest rate currently in the capital market and which is 15 times smaller, 15, not 2, you heard well, 15 times less than the interest rate at which Republika Srpska is in debt on the London Stock Exchange. And as far as I can tell, individuals are even praised. Which means that in this 88 case, instead of 156 million KM interest, what would be the cost of bond emissions on the London Stock Exchange by Republika Srpska, the amount to go at these market values would be around 15 million KM at the reference interest rates. This essentially shows, and this actually reveals all the unscrupulous borrowing policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it is possible in one responsible way to obtain credit funds cheaper than perhaps individuals are trying to do in a completely, completely non-economic way. I wanted to say this is one of the favourable arrangements being made when it comes to supporting businesses and the business community and the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH at an interest rate of 0.37%. Believe it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10028	Havala beautiful. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10029	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't see anyone who could give me an answer to some questions, and I'm going to refer to point 32, that's giving consent to ratify the Amending of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Why do I have to point this out? If you look at Annex 2 of this Agreement, it came to us as a finished story. We can only say today take or leave, or ratify the Agreement or not, because I appreciate that someone has very professionally analysed this Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina since '96. A year to this day. And all the agreements listed can be changed, intervened in favour of a bank which has granted a loan in accordance with market conditions, i.e. the operating costs of banks. It looks to me like when you take credit, an individual credit natural person with a sliding interest rate, it's translated into this Agreement completely identical. And that's why I'm going to continue where my colleague Borenović stopped, yes, there are, these agreements are some very favourable, with a very low interest rate, but if we ratify this Annex 2 of this Agreement today, which applies to all loans and loans from '96. who are listed, says in this Agreement, and those who are eventually left out, means everyone to this day, I think Bosnia and Herzegovina can come into a very awkward situation. You know what world bankers are like, they can change the terms of this aneks as they want, because they'll say that the money market is conditioned by the bank's business and that they can change the clauses of this Treaty as they wish. That is why I will not support this at first today, so I voted against unifying, I will not primarily vote to ratify this Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10030	Thank you very much. Representative Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10031	A completely accurate colleague of Mehmedović, and I voted against unifying the debate on these four points of the agenda, and precisely on the amendment of all these agreements that you were talking about I was, I also did not want to support the Foreign Affairs Commission. And you're right. 89 The bottom line is that, like, when I tell me in this case Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in most cases the Republika Srpska and the Federation were in charge, we accept that the creditor is changing agreements because the current situation is such that both the EURIBOR and the LIBOR are negative on the capital market. Which means that we, like those who use loans, would have extremely favourable conditions for repaying credit in the next period. We're giving up something that's our advantage because we're being asked by an international lender who wants to protect, of course, his own interest, because with a negative EURIBOR and LIBOR, we're going to get into a situation. that our loan wars or interest rates will be... negative. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10032	Representative, you have reached out to correct the wrong allegations, and we hear you support someone's allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10033	Well, you really, you really don't want to be so correct, I have to tell you that.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10034	Well, I'm trying really hard to be correct, and I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10035	I want to, I want to explain what's the essence of my wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10036	I ask you to be correct, to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10037	Well, you really don't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10038	Here, I beg you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10039	I don't know what anymore, I'm not talking about the Council of Ministers, I don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10040	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure as well as... others.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10041	I don't touch you Council of Ministers, but I'm talking about something that's very important and you...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10042	It doesn't matter what you're talking about, please respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10043	Well, you respect a few MPs who talk about some issues that are very important, and don't be politically frustrated and looking at us differently. Why do you always have some kind of frustration against some MPs? 90
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10044	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10045	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10046	You, in the absence of arguments and facts, are simply calling for us to have approaches differently. Tell me what you're referring to. You have now injured the Rules of Procedure, you have reported for the correction of the wrong assumption in which you were to refer and who you are correcting. You have reported that you support the argument of the man who reported for the correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10047	And to say what is the correcting of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10048	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10049	Because she didn't mention it, there was no mention of interest rates,...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10050	I warn you, please, if you have a reference to the correction of the wrong quote, which you are correcting.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10051	So, counterpart Mehmedović was talking about his position why he did not support a united debate. And I said he was absolutely right, but it's very important to mention the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is disowning something that as someone who takes credit funds can save a significant part of the money from the funds on return, not just the principal, but primarily interest rates. And that is why I think it is not good for us to accept the request of the international lender to change all previous-term agreements just because there is a negative interest rate in the capital market today at EURIBOR and LIBOR. And that's one of the reasons why, I don't think there's any reason to do it when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily Republika Srpska millions of converting marks. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10052	Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10053	Thank you, Chairman. Here, so I refer to what you said. Article 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I have no intention of defending Mr Borenović or anything, but this is important for all opposition MPs, so read the text – the MP may request a word to correct, the key two provisions here are the first – in order to correct, in his opinion, the wrong allegation. So you can't get into it at all. If he thinks he's guilty of allegations it's his right... Next, which 91 can be the cause of the misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. Mr. Borenović just said - I'm trying to explain. He therefore fully acted in accordance with Rule 76(2) of the Rules of Procedure. It's not just a hoax, it's not a dot, it's a plight in his opinion, and then it can be a cause of misunderstanding or it's looking for an explanation. Everything a man has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10054	Mr. Arnaut, you have misused a business order. It is not yours to interpret whether someone has acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and so, but, if they are determined, by an agent or someone who has violated a business provision to point to that business provision. Mr. Borenović, a respected representative, has been properly warned about respecting the business provisions relating to the correction of the wrong allegation. And please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure in any such intention, and you have no right to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10055	Yours. So, I just do it, and you're an MP here. I pointed out that you violated the Rules of Procedure, pointed to a business provision that I consider to have been violated. And that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10056	I take your word. I work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I didn't come out to speak as an advocate because I speak on the basis of the work I do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. One more warning. Thank you very much. I hope you understand. We've exhausted the agenda of today's session. I'm concluding a hearing on these points from 32nd to 35th. Obren Petrović. What is it now, is it someone later or what? I'm sorry you didn't, I'm done and you called later.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10057	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10058	Here you go. Here, we'll give the MP a chance. I didn't see...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10059	Well, I want to say hello. I mean, I'm a member of the commission who adopted what Borenović said yesterday about this 32nd point, but I think they're more experienced than me and Softić and Zvizdić, and we talked about it yesterday. Here in this discussion how it was now turns out that what we supported is not good. But based on yesterday's report, I think we'll be in trouble if we don't back this up. So that's what this is about, I believe again that the President of the Softić Commission, so I understood 92, which is why I supported it, because we will not be able to give terms to the World Bank either in the next period or for this period. Therefore, in European and world circumstances, the situation is very critical, even yesterday it was said not to be, and Borenović asked how much, what is the current interest, 0.5%, so when asked if it would, it could come more than 2.5% of those from the ministry said it was possible. So I think from the information the ministry provided, based on those of us present, who supported this, this is a good thing for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not a good thing. If, I'm sorry too, there's no one from the ministry, but I've made such an impression, and I think if we don't support it, it'll be bad for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10060	Thank you very much. She's a representative of Edita Đapo, a debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10061	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Well, here, I'm going to get involved, since I'm also a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission where we discussed and discussed this yesterday, I'm going to get involved in the debate maybe just a little bit to help the MPs, to clarify the situation in question. The Euro LIBOR, it is true, is now on the international market and has a negative rate, but the fact is that with '21. In the year, therefore, the use of Euro LIBOR ceases, and precisely because of this transition it is necessary to carry out ratifications of the agreement in order to use the interest rate to be used in the future. The finance ministry representative, more specifically the representative, explained that this process of negotiations in the Agreement on these agreements, i.e. this transition, was very transparent, that they had talked to the World Bank, that they had been explained what the benefit was. Therefore, the benefit is that the agreements may apply for the next five, six, seven, eight years, and the Euro LIBOR will not be used, and in that sense it is necessary to ratify. And all other countries, therefore, that received assistance from the World Bank or loans, did the same. So I don't think it would be good if Bosnia and Herzegovina didn't do the same. Here, I hope I've only helped, is it clear to the MPs why this transition is coming? So, because Libor is suspended, use of that interest rate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10062	Thank you very much. Representative Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10063	Correction of the wrong quote by his colleague Petrović. It is true, the Ministry of Finance's representative said exactly that we have to do it without some explanation of what that benefit is for us, except that it's about...... and that these are trends that we have to accept too. You must know, the fact that it is absolutely accurate is abolished is the creation of a reference interest rate with EURIBOR and LIBOR as it is, which has been so far, because it is negative and leads to a creditor problem which, of course, wants to borrow money from the citizens of Republika Srpska and the Federation to earn. But it can't make money when it's a negative interest rate. And when I asked – well, why do we do it, well, you know, because there are some other things, some conditions that are likely to appear in the next 93 years. It is essentially true that we are a small country that is credit-dependent on international serious credit institutions and that it is difficult to negotiate with them about something where we are really losing. And here we lose, by changing these 13 agreements or loans that create this item of the agenda and probably to dozens of other credit agreements, loans, and various different agreements. And these are the facts that are so, which we must tell the citizens, in which, of course, the creditor's interest is to protect ourselves, and that way we will probably pay the price more expensive right now than we should do under the existing contracts. And I don't know why it's a problem to say, why it's a problem to say, why it's a problem tomorrow to get information about how many millions it means. And it's true that the interest rate is now the lowest in the last, I don't know how many, decades and it's moving, and here's when this loan we talked about is at point 34, 0.37%.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-28-0.u10064	There are no more applications for discussion, nor for corrections of the wrong allegations. I hope we've cleared up the situation at these points. I'm closing the hearing from 32nd to 35th. We've exhausted the agenda with this. I'm taking a break until 6:00 for the vote. I'll see you here at 6:00. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like you to take your seats to begin voting on the agenda. Can we start with a vote? Please prepare, we begin the vote for the 19th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes from the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Of all 26 - 26 for, no objection, no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the minutes of the 18th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. We move to the plea under point 7. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-l-478/21, of 23.02.2021. (second reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Of the 28 present – for 26, there are no, abstentions 2. I agree that, with the general and entity majority, we have adopted the proposal for a law on litigation in the second reading. 94 We move to a statement on point 9. – Proposal for a Law on the High Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives from the DF Club, issue: 0l-02-l-2375/20, dated 15.03.2021, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Of the 30 present – for 15 against 15, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I agree that we did not accept the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and is also obliged to draw up a new opinion in accordance with Article 113(3) of the House of Representatives. We're going to point 10. – Proposal for a Law on the High Judicial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, Law No: 0l-02-l-2377/20, of 15.03.2021, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Of the 34 present – for 14, against 20, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not accepted the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and is also in charge in accordance with Article 113(3) of the House of Representatives to draw up a new opinion. We move on to a statement on point 11. – Proposal for a Law on the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives of the DF Club, Law No: 0l-02-l-2376/20, of 15.03 2021, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. We're voting on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Of the 35 present – for 13, against 22, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I agree that we did not accept the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission and is also obliged to draw up a new opinion in accordance with Article 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We move on to the declaration of point 12. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Aida Baručija, Law No: 0l-02-l-567/21, since 17.03.2021. (first reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the 35 present – for 20, against 6 abstentions 9. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. It's an ex-consensual match. Moving to point 13. – Report by the College of Colleges on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal of the Representatives of Nenad Stevandić for inclusion in the agenda of the 18th session of the House of Representatives of the New Points: Making the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH to urgently and for a maximum period of seven days from the date of adoption of this conclusion, construction and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the urgent procedure of the proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina (, the Official Messenger of BiH), No 58/08), as well as the adoption of appropriate amendments to the Regulation on the procedure and the way of granting marketing authorisation (, Official Messenger of BiH), No 75/11, with the aim to allow for the vaccine against Coronavirus (COVID-19), whose use of European institutions, which may be immediately approved by the relevant authorities or by the institutions of BiH, as well as the institutions, as well as the institutions of the institutions of BiH. 95 These amendments and additions to that law and sublaw would be valid until the end of the declared pandemic COVID-19, number: 0l-50-1-716/21, from 31.03.2021. The vote is only in the second round on the proposal of MP Nenad Stevandić. Please repeat. Of the 35 present – for 19 against 10, abstentions 6. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I understand that we have accepted the proposal of Representative Nenad Stevandić. We move on to a statement on point 14. – Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, issue: 0l/3-50-l-218/21, of 01.02.2021, 2) Report on the work of the Committee on Transport and Communications, issue: 01/5-50-l-218/21, of 02.02.2021., 3) Report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, issue: 0l/2-50-l-218/21, of 03.02.2021., 4) Report on the work of the Committee on Finance and Budget, No: 0l/4-50-l-218/21, of 09.02.2021, 5) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, issue: 0l/l-50-l-21, of 03.03.2021, of the Law of Gender: 621. I propose that we report to the committee in the package and put this proposal to the vote, first and foremost, in the package on all these reports. Of the 35 present – 34 for, no problem, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, we accepted the proposal to declare ourselves in the package on all these reports. And now I'm making a motion to vote, to make a statement on the reports of these committees of the House. Of the 35 present – for 33, no objection, abstention 2. I agree that, with the general and entity majority, we have adopted the reports of the House's committees. Let's move on to a statement on point 15. – Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Defence and Security of BiH, issue: 03/l-50-14-428/21, of 18.02.2021, 2) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-50-14-10/21, link: 01,02-50-14-428/21, of 25.02.2021., 3) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-428/21, of 09.03.2021, 4) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, issue: 03/5-50-I4-428/21, of 16.03.2021, of 09.03.2021.4) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration, issue: 03/5-50-428/21. I suggest we take all the reports and put them to the vote in the package. 96 Out of 35 present – for 33, there are no objections, two abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have accepted a motion for a plea in the package on these reports. I now call upon you to plead with me on the reports of these joint committees. Of the 35 present – for 32, no objection, abstention 3. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we have adopted reports from the Joint Commissioners of the House. Point 16. – Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2020, issue: 01,02-50-l8-618/21, of 12.03.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – for 28, there are no, abstentions 7. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2020. Point 17. – Report on the Commission's work on conflict of interest for 2020, issue: 01,02,03-50-18-626/21, dated 15.03.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – for 28, against 1, abstention 6. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2020. Point 18. – Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution of BiH for 2020, issue: 01-37-1-627/21, dated 15.03.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – for 26 against 4, abstentions 5. In addition to the general and entity majority, I agree that we adopted the report on the results of the activities of the Human Rights Institution for 2020. Point 19. – Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2020, issue:01-50-18-738/21, dated 31.03.2021. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 35 present – for 16, versus 9, abstentions 10. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska's entity. Shall we do it later? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
