ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2446	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by ministers at the Council of Ministers, who responded today, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Today, we also have representatives of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Staying Conditions in Institutions, the Treatment and Respect for Human Rights of Persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal proceedings, foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina law. The session is attended by 14 delegates – 4 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. Munib Jusufović is unable to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 17th session, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the 16th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-2310/20, of 14.01.2021.; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-1769/20, of 14.01.2021; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-2144/20, of 14/01.2021, with opinions of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1 2145/20, of 14/01.2021, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01-02-1-495/21, of 1603.2021; 7. Zlatko Miletić's delegation initiative, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is required to, on the basis of Article 7. Law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 50/08, 35/09, 75/19, 32/12, 42/12, 50/12, 32/13, 87/13, 75/15, 2 88/15, 16/16, 94/16, 72/17 and 25/18) and Articles 17. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08), take a decision on the level of the base of return for employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2021 (minimum amount of 535.50 KM before the first reduction in 2008), establish an economic and social dialogue with trade unions in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and sign a collective agreement with trade unions, in accordance with Article 9. The Law on strike in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in direct negotiations with the Union, is taking urgent action to resolve the requirements unanimously to mutual satisfaction and benefit, in order to correct the existential status of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina," number: 02-50-6-2098/20, of 23.10.1920; 8. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which "the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to launch, no later than 20 days from the day of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary actions aimed at setting up an Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, in accordance with the Constitution and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and Constitutional Court of BiH", issue: 02-50-6-547/21, of 03.03.2021; 9. The Delegative Initiative Denis Bećirović, which "Home of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on all municipalities and cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in the interest of building peace, tolerance, trust, mutual respect and affirmation of anti-fascist values on which contemporary Europe rests, ban any direct or indirect expression of the glorification or affirmation of the two most notorious war criminals and kvising in the area of the former Yugoslavia – leaders of the Ustaslavi movement Ante Pavelić and leaders of the Chetnic Movement of Draže Mihailović, as well as all other members of the Nazi movements, organisations, military formations and associations, regardless of what nations or religions they were, and who fought the World War II during the decisive fight against Naziism as the greatest evil in human history, organised by the anti-217/25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the amendment proposal and the addition of the BiH election legislation, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-07-4-649/21, since 16.04.2021; 11. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue: 05/6-50-15-487/21, of 24.02.2021; 12. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-21-1-786/21, of 09.04.2021; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment 2 to the Grant Agreement to support the State housing programme between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the housing regional programme, issue 01,02-21-1-787/21, of 09.04.2021; 14. Granting consent for ratification of the Loan Agreement (Reimbursement and Support Project for Enterprises/Employees between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction (9183-BA), No: 01,02-21-1-788/21, of 09.04.2021. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges you've won. Is anyone answering for a word, any suggestions for changes and additions? Mr. Bećirović. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2447	Ladies and gentlemen, you're welcome. At last session of the House at the beginning of the session, I publicly warned that no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to violate the Constitution and the laws of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And whenever the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina are threatened, I will not hesitate to speak publicly in this House and warn of this danger. I also think it's important today, and that's our constitutional obligation, that we all act, first of all, on two lines. One colossal is the colossal protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood, and the other is a colossal of the protection of the human rights of every man in our country, without distinction to religion and nation. In view of this, I have often pointed to certain elements of discriminatory policy in the BH entity of Republika Srpska in this House, but I also want to say that I do not want to stop the appearance of a discriminatory policy in another BH entity in the Federation of BiH, and that we need to talk about it in principle. With that in mind today, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point that would read as follows – Consideration and adoption of the conclusions of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on establishing constitutional equality between the Serbian people, the Serbian and Bosnian languages and the Cyrillic letters in the constitution of the BiH Federation canton BH entity, where this has not been prescribed so far. As regards this addition to the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have also drawn up concrete conclusions to be adopted when this point is now on the agenda. Among other things, in these conclusions, not to read them because you will get them all, it says that we must fight for the equality of all people and that we must clearly secure the following things in several cantons of the Federation of BiH where this has not been done so far. Therefore, the equality of the Serbian people with other nations in these cantons, the Serbian language as an official and the Constitution recognised language, the Bosnian language as the official and the Constitution recognised language and the Cyrillic letter as the official and the Constitution-recognized letter. I remind you here that it is very important in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we show the political will that we are ready to defend the human rights of all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on every inch of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without distinctions that they are nations or religions. In this House of Nations, the most responsible representatives...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2448	Denise, you'll be able to explain the initiative if it comes to the agenda, you've broken through, uh, a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2449	So, to conclude, I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a specific item of the agenda, I propose that we send a positive message to all Bosnia and Herzegovina today. And I remind you once again, it is very important what message will be sent to the House of Peoples, because here are the presidents and vice presidents and other people who are at the highest positions in key political... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2450	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Next is Zlatko Miletić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2451	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the present envoys and delegates from the House of Representatives, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputies who are here, here today, in great numbers and I show special satisfaction, of course our officials and media representatives. In order to be precise, I will read my proposal to amend and supplement. It shall be submitted on the basis of a member or article of our Rules of Procedure. On 28.02.2018, we gave and signed a solemn statement, which reads: "I am obliged to knowingly perform my duties, respect the BiH Constitution, fully implement the General Peace Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens." Given that one part of you is acting contrary to the stated statement, I ask that it be placed as a point of the agenda – an individual or personal statement whether we will implement the oral and written statement and what we will do in the coming period to overcome the current constitutional, socio-political, security, economic, health and one word of the general crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina which, in my personal opinion, is one of the worst since '95. A year to this day. I won't talk here about the reasons, but here, if you will, we got a letter from the Council of Europe this morning talking about our non-implementation of economic reforms due to the political blockade in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Yesterday we had PIC communicators referring to this famous disunity. Before that, we have an event in Mostar, before Mostar Mrakovic, before Mrakovica Jahorin, an insult in the media by some of you here all the peoples. I think it's really time we broke up with that practice. Whatever happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the only way out is if we talk about all the problems in this country in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think it's about time. I ask you if you adopt this draft agenda to put this point as the last one, because if we start talking about this at the beginning I have a feeling we won't adopt any of these points that are scheduled for today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2452	So we have two initiatives. Can you get the paper from Mr. Miletić? So I would first put to the vote the supplement proposed by Denis Bećirović in accordance with Article 61. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which reads: Consideration and adoption of the conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the establishment of constitutional equality between the Serbian people, Serbian and Bosnian languages and Cyrillic letters in the constitutions of the BiH Federation canton of BiH, where this has not been prescribed so far. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You got it. Then we're taking a 10-minute break. Have both proposals delivered to delegates. 5 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2456	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2457	Oh, yes, in the cantons themselves, the constitution is not respected. Okay. So you have a definition of the agenda point, we can put it to a vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You want me to do it again? _________(?) It's just as much as I can see.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2462	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome the leadership of the House of the Peoples, distinguished MPs and MPs. Very short. Therefore, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted an emergency procedure for amending and supplementing the Foreign Law at a session held on 11 January 2021. At the same time, a very important conclusion has been adopted – that the House of Representatives owes the Ministry of Security to extend the capacity of 7 immigration centres as a specialised institution for the reception and accommodation of foreigners whose decision by the competent authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina has set a measure of supervision under the Foreign Law. So first of all, I would just like to remind myself of the circumstances that have affected the proposal of this Law. Namely, the bill was sent to the parliamentary procedure and was delivered to the Prestravnica House in December of last year. It was a time when we had an increased inflow of migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as you probably remember on November 17, 2020, there was a tragic case of the murder of a man in the Sarajevo settlement of Otes. At that time, of course, the public was right to take offense and ask how it is possible that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not provide conditions for troubled migrants, i.e. Multiple registered perpetrators of crimes and the most serious crimes will be removed from the streets of towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to this in the second half of 2020, we had a number of other registered crimes committed by migrants who remain free to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the question is when such crimes can happen again. Therefore, this Law, as it stands in his explanation, aims to actually achieve an effect by means of a system of general prevention on the deterrence of migrants from committing criminal acts on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. ... The House of Representatives considers it, and this Law shows it, that we as a state must send a message to migrants that they are not welcome here if they intend to kill or commit muggings against locals, especially given the fact that of all the countries of the region, including the European Union, in the first three years, we have had the most humane relationship with migrants in the last three years. So, with regard to migrants staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who respect all the regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not commit crimes, they will, of course, continue to have what is guaranteed by international regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that the humanitarian aspect of this migrant crisis will not be ignored for those migrants who respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's regulations. On the other hand, those migrants who do not comply with the regulations need... a security aspect... immediately upon the lawfulness of penalties for violations in the area of violence or violation of public order and peace to head to this immigration center. So the essence of this Law is Article 1 which extends the legal reasons for deporting and putting under the supervision of foreigners in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is not only the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs but also the possession and provision of the use of intoxicating drugs, as well as other legal reasons relating to the judicial punishment of foreigners for violations with elements of violence or violations of public order and peace. As far as the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH is concerned, in relation to Article 2. The House of Representatives will, of course, accept what needs to be brought into line with European practice on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards European integration. But, here, I call on you honourable MPs and MPs to adopt in our first reading this Law which, of course, is not finally and systemically a solution to the entire migrant crisis but certainly can be an important first step and message in which we should approach the problem of migrants who violate public order and peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2463	Thank you, Dr. Zvizdić. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Niko one's answering for a word. 8 Let's put it to a vote. The vote was 8. There was no one against, there were six abstentions. So, the general majority we have, entity... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, let's go back to the vote. For nine, there were five abstentions. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. Therefore, I agree with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-1769/20, of 14.01.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2466	Dear Chairman, deputies, colleagues and fellow delegates, delegates, I warmly welcome you all. And here, esteeming both your time and yours, I'll be very brief. This Law is motivated by the situation on the ground that we have that you have a very large number of people who at the same time act as ministers and representatives. Seeking a solution, it came to the use as a model of what is a model in the Republic of Croatia and to introduce an institute for the rest of the parliamentary term, which was unquestionably won in the elections. But here's to the situation as it is, so I don't get into qualifications right now. 9 You have people in multiple roles, you have MPs in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the Federal Parliament, and here you are in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who are ministers at the same time. It was made possible by the Electoral Law, believing that this could happen in a transitional period, but, unfortunately, this transitional period is taking us a little longer. The adoption of this law, what would it mean? It would mean practically that the minister, in any of the governments that won the mandate, continues to act as ministers as long as she or he is the minister in Parliament's office as MPs, acts as next from the list. When power is formed and whoever wins the mandate, whether he is re-elected or not, he has the right to decide whether to return to parliament for the term he won. Practically, I don't like to mention names, but here I will be happy to mention the name because a colleague here at the House of Representatives, Edita Đapo, who is the Federation Minister in Parliament and who supports, spoke to the majority who are in this situation and all support this Law, so Mrs. Đapo would continue to be Minister in the Federal Government. If a new government is established, and when it is established, in which she is not a minister, her mandate, which she won in the election, awaits. Meanwhile, it is in that place, therefore, that the House of Representatives, the one who is second on the list, does not suffer. So, the model, to cut short, which exists in Croatia, I think it also suits political parties that have a rare and very large number of people in double roles that cannot be both good representatives and ministers at the same time. It is common that quorum depends here in the House of Representatives, not here, on whether or not the Government of the Federation is being held, that you have a president of the Federation who first votes for the law and then signs an order, whether, on publication, to declare that law. I think it would be good for the parties to have these people act as executives, the next on the list enters, performs that function as long as the man is in executive power, and yet for these people it's a guarantee, is that, that the won mandate awaits them and that they won't and can't be taken away from them. You have other cases that I wouldn't be going into right now, like a long-term illness, treatment abroad, etc., the parties lose their seats in Parliament that rarely, in our terms, can mean most of them on this side or on that side. Why not while someone is away for any reason for more than six months wouldn't the next person on the list be acting as MP. Let me just say that this law was unanimously adopted in the House of Representatives with one HDZ amendment, which we also unanimously adopted. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2467	Thank you, fellow Magazinović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Čović is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2468	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Here, just a little bit since we as the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH discussed this proposal because through two homes we should agree on it a little bit. Most of what you've brought out is, as far as we're concerned, okay, acceptable as such, and we think we should introduce one standard of behavior when we have a situation like this and it's possible that something else needs to be done or not done, but basically we're going to be against this proposal today for the simple reason that the changes that we would possibly adopt in the second reading of this text come only after the next election. And we, on the other hand, have a very clear one obligation, and therefore we are against, even by the end of the sixth month, that, according to the Agreement signed in Mostar between the two political options and the five 10 representatives of international institutions, we adopt amendments and additions to the Electoral Law that we would like to fully consider amendments and additions, from the election of members of the Presidency, from representatives to the clubs of the House of People when it comes to this House, that is, the House of the Federation and a lot of additions to the Election Law, which sometimes calls for technical amendments. What you have suggested here are not technical changes and I think that... this bill that will come on the agenda, I hope, and in this House here, should certainly contain. So, I believe that then we will support this section on amendments and amendments to the law, and until then we will be patiently working with representatives of the parliamentary majority, but also opposition to these two Houses of Parliament. For this reason, and today on the agenda, we have the establishment of this working group that should deal with amendments and additions to the Election Law both in the House of Peoples through our three clubs and the House of Representatives, which is tomorrow, where all clubs will be included by party, and of course by the Council of Ministers. Even there, through the Joint College, we have committed ourselves to including, if necessary, some institutions that may be in our disposition. So the only reason why we have this attitude today is because we want a full amendment to the Election Law to ensure that all decisions of the Court in Strasbourg are implemented and, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, the legitimate representation of the people. Then, with the election of members of the Presidency, the House of Peoples, I think that this change that you have proposed here today can be absolutely an integral part of this document regarding the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2469	Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2470	Thank you very much. Here, I want to say a few words about this law. First of all, I don't think a proposal like this should be adopted today. Why is that my attitude? Because I remind you first that the point, I think, is today's 10th order, of the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to electoral legislation, and I believe that every new proposal should end on that group. Have we formed a task force that will deal with all issues related to the Election Law or are we now playing and hurrying to do something before the task force is formed and the work begins. So, first of all, I doubt the applicant's intentions. Another thing I also want to draw attention to is that the issue of this introduction of a parliamentary mandate-saving institute has never been used as populistly as it is this time. There's no face I think in this country that doesn't think one person can... just one term. I don't think there's anyone who would be, who would slow down something like that. But what's the issue? For parliamentary democracies that have not such a system, therefore, but a system by which parliamentary mandates belong to the parties, it is easier to carry out, and in such countries this happens more often. What would it mean in the Parliamentary Assembly to have this kind of thing and whether it's a conscious replacement of the thesis, so instead of agreeing and looking for a solution to the question why this is happening to us, why the Federation government hasn't been formed yet. Is the Electoral Law responsible for that? So we're hiding the culprits to get to some position that would allow... and walking from the place of executive and legislative authority. There's no reason to justify it. Secondly, will it affect things to change? Will this additional norming affect things? Is it because of the adoption, he says... this is the law, will we have a situation that we can build up power faster? We won't. What are we going to do, what is this new quality that we're going to have? We need to deal with the question of why this is happening to us. And we know the answer, we can't, we won't say it out loud. 11 So, I have always doubted the good intentions of the electoral amendments that explicitly could not take advantage of what benefit we have, what country benefits from something additionally standardizing. Accordingly, I don't think this is enough arguments for a law like this to be adopted, so I don't think it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2471	Next up is Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2472	Thank you, Chairman. Well, this is certainly a good proposal for change in the Electoral Law, but it is evident that this is a partial approach to change and that, in fact, we are now talking about the essence of things here why Bosnia and Herzegovina came into such a fungi that we can't move on either side. Here is the question whether things should be resolved step by step, as is here, here is proposed one step in the amendments to the Electoral Law, or whether things have to be solved or all or nothing. Because of the policy of solving things or everything or nothing, we're stuck here, so I can't say, but I'm sure two last terms. And that's the responsibility of the policies that are defined here. And here, on one small example of the election law change, we're actually getting a picture of why we came into this situation at all. The high probability is that you won't be able to get everything and the high probability is that this law will not be passed on the basis of what this commission is going to do, which is proposed in the follow-up to the agenda. So you take responsibility for everything being blocked until you get what you want, and you want everything in your favor. And that's not possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I'm warning you that we should think about making a move out of this mud that we've fallen into, or we're going to stay like this, and we could stay stuck like this for another long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2473	Thank you. Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2474	Thank you. I would like to say that probably out of 15 delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, there is not one that will not admit the truth, which is that in this segment we have one obvious problem. This problem is visible to both political structures, and it is visible to the entire public, and most often we talk about it when it escalates. We are all witnessing as much as it has been, not to mention, both the absurd situation and after these elections that one of these same people is acting at the same time as the minister's office in the executive power, while at the same time chairing or acting as MPs in the legislative bodies of the authorities. It's just not a good message. And since we're all agreed that that's not good, I guess it's our turn to remove these problems. The best solution would be if only the Council of Ministers of BiH had offered appropriate legal changes and complemented the necessary laws and to remove the issue as well as a number of other problems. However, no proposal came from the Council of Ministers. In this case, MP Magazinović and the House of Representatives decided to try, in accordance with their constitutional and 12 business rights, to solve this problem in a concrete way. And we have before us a proposal that's in the first reading, so I'm stressing now that this is the bill in the first reading. Even if there are some necessary changes in the text of the Law we have a second reading, we have an amendment phase before that and we can add more if there is a need for it. I think it's high time we showed a little political hearing and political will to solve some specific problems, at least in those cases, and this is one of those, where such a bill absolutely does not endanger anyone, but certainly introduces certain order throughout the country. And therefore once again I call on us to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2475	Next is Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2476	Thank you, Chairman. I'm gonna try to be really brief. Here, I'm closest to Mr. Bosić's discussion. What exactly do I want to say, and basically say something new? I will try to look at one other aspect of this problem, given that I know some people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who behave three duties in this way. The question arises, given that citizens rightly criticise us that we are unable to act on a single duty rather than three, who are these people, whether they are supermen and how it is possible that a person works in three places. So that's completely impossible. Not to mention that individuals also receive salaries in two or three places and receive huge money, and in fact, they do not give citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina any... I will not make counter arguments or Mr Čović's argument, nor Mrs Dušanka Majkić, you have the right to your opinion, I respect that, perhaps you are right. But precisely for the reason Mr. Bosić speaks of, here, we will form in accordance with the article or Article 10 of the Agenda of the Interresor Working Group, if you guarantee that it will be quick, within a month, two. If you guarantee this is not necessary. But given the fact that there is a policy of misunderstanding in this country in nothing, I believe that the effort that Mr Magazinović made and this approach is a step by step, so come on, here, let's take the first step. He does not insult anyone, not a single nation, but he will also create political parties who participate in the government, so that you may have more space for more of your people to come to terms. And I think he's very correct from both political and social, and if you want the financial aspect. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2477	Thank you. Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2478	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I want a few sentences to say on the grounds of this law. I agree with everyone who says that here and in this House but also in the House of Representatives there is no one or is reduced to a minimum of those who think it is normal to perform one, two or not to know how many functions on the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or, on the other hand, entities or municipalities, etc. I have carefully pointed out this Law and I must tell you that if it were what the biller said it was not controversial. It is not at all dispute whether when we form the executive power of the people chosen to say – you cannot perform, 13 you must freeze your mandate. I don't care about that, but that's not it. Because why? I'm worried about the freezing. It's never frozen meat as good as raw. And we're opening an interesting procedure here. We give to the messengers, we further rise above what they have today, we tell the MPs – you can be a little minister now, so in a half year, a year, you say – I don't want to be a minister anymore, you know, I want to go back to the parliamentary bench. And you fine into the parliamentary bench, your mandate awaits. Whomever awaits, what is this system so that we may say to someone, let your place of work await you. Well, it's not a clerk's job there, so it fills in in four years, so you've seen the problems in the government as much as there is about it. So that's one dimension. The second, in such a unstable, unfortunately politically unstable country, where you are all witnesses, and we have all been talking for years about those who, flyers, call them whatever you want, so let's say, let's say, an MP is elected and he goes to the Council of Ministers, one or two, from this people or that people, whatever. In a year's time, he says, "Oh, I don't want to be in this party anymore, I'm a free shooter." You in the Council of Ministers put a problem, you have to change that man for most, because I guess it's normal for you to have a majority everywhere. He says it again – I'm going, now I'm not going to be in the Council of Ministers, I'm going back to the House of Representatives, and I'm going down to be in another party, so I'm going to be there, not that one, but another. It's his right, which is perfectly understandable. I'll support the part that says you can freeze the mandate until the executive's election. But when an executive authority is elected, please select the Members of Parliament whatever you want, whether you go to the executive or you want to go to the House of Representatives. Well, he says -- it's unstable in the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers could fall. What about when you get on the road and you get killed? It's not insecure to drive there, is it? But you want to give more security to the MPs than they can afford. I'm against this kind of behavior, to the formation of power yes, but when power is formed, we end it. I would support this law today, but I'm worried that, as much as I've analyzed, this law cannot, can't be amended. He can't because he's got two amendments that we'd have to cancel, and we can't end it. We can act amendmentally on the amendment. I'm worried about that, too. Otherwise, I'd be happy to support it because I don't think anyone really has the right to do that. And one more thing, can it happen that the MP says, his party – come on now and compete and be the director of the post office or the director of the power distribution, or I don't know what it's called, this one, step out of the parliamentary mandate, freeze there, and someone else will come instead. You go too, you go there. And after that, if you do what you need to say to someone, eh, now return to the messenger's bench. So, are we going to introduce replacement mandates? Well, let's bring in, uh, not only the MPs who will be four years old when he comes, but the deputy MP. I think it should be a little bit more thorough, with, therefore, once again stressing, absolute support, that this issue is completely legal, clean, over, but that we can fix it in a way that we can't allow the possible abuse of others. That's why I think it's a chance when an election law is being done that we're having this debate, and it's not far, it's two months away, there won't even be a choice until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2479	Thank you, Mr. Nović. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing it. 14 We vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Give me a vote. At present 14 – for vote 5, against 8.1 abstention. We don't have a general majority. He didn't pass the proposal. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-2144/20, of 14.01.2021, with opinions of the Constitutional Commission and the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. In accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission for Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He also found that the proposed law does not contain the opinions of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency and the Directorate for European Integration. The proposed House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delivered the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH on 02.03.2021 and 17.02.2021. Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. The Nationals' Constitutional Legal Commission found that the bill was not in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of People, given the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, did not accept the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the House of the Peoples Bariša Čolak if that's what he wants. There's no need. Thank you. I give the floor to the chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the Dušanki Majkić People's House. Here you go, Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2481	So this is the bad situation when it is found that the Constitutional Commission, which gives constitutional basis, is in line with the country's constitutional system, when it gives a negative position on one law, and then there is a debate on the competent commission, in this case the Finance and Budget Commission. We have nothing to discuss about a law that didn't get constitutional basis. Accordingly, the Commission did not declare itself either, but notes that the basic reason for not receiving the constitutional basis is because of the fact that the law did not have a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2482	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. So, before I give the Proposer of the Law if... Mr. Magazinović. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2483	Very short. Both laws, therefore, and the Law on Payments and Compensations in Institutions and the Labour Act propose and provide for this law to abolish the jubilee award for elected and appointed officials. We're all clear on this. Many of you have found themselves in a position to win or be able to win a jubilee prize without even knowing that it belongs to them, while there are those who knew and called accounting every 15 days to ask when they will have those 800 marks, what it is worth. So we're not all the same. But I believe that, in addition to all the privileges we enjoy and all the income we have, this is an entirely extra privilege that belongs to employees in any case. And, of course, that the dactylograph should receive a jubilee award and, of course, that everyone else employed, but, in my opinion, that award should not belong to ministers and MPs. Of course, there are different opinions here that are most often packed in principles, in human rights, in the Constitution. But I would kind of accept that this was rejected in the way that Mr. Čović explained before – yes, the solution is fine but in the comprehensive changes we will probably support something like that,...it acceptable and holds water, although, therefore, I have a completely different view of it. But to this dom say that the abolition of the jubilee award is anti-constitutional, because it's the Commission's finding, that this is the opposite of the Constitution, let me, I can't accept it. And I'm asking you for the dignity of the House to refuse this opinion, and what's going to happen to the law to me is quite no matter, I see that most, uh, are committed to taking as much as it can take.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2484	Denis Bećirović called for a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2485	I remind all those present that, perhaps, a year ago, the same two laws predicting the abolition of the jubilee award were here in the House of Peoples when I was personally a proposing. I remind you that because my colleague Magazinović and I worked on it together and decided that he would try through the House of Representatives, and I would pass through the House of Peoples. And you can imagine what a paradoxical situation we've come into today, and I must say uniquely so far. The same two laws were on this Constitutional Legal Commission and they received a positive opinion that it had a constitutional basis. And now the same two laws come and the same people say about the same thing – there is no constitutional basis. How is that possible? It is indeed an absurdity that has not been seen in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly so far. The second thing I want to say about these laws of Ambassador Magazinović is this. We must not forget that the global pandemic has hit the whole world and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and people have been struggling with this pandemic for over a year and a half. I ask the public, if there is anyone here at this time from the Council of Ministers, whether there is a single measure of the Council of Ministers, headed by Tegeltija, which is... some sort of savings programme. No such measures seem to exist. We don't even have Budget in 2021, and at least in this year's pandemic we had to have it on time, we don't have any savings program. And now you have two bill proposals that predict at least symbolically that we make certain savings. It won't mean so much financially, but it is one positive message to go in that direction to save something in state institutions as well. This concerns, therefore, all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why? Because instead of eliminating jubilee awards, many other unwarranted privileges here are being approached by the fact that in the time of the pandemic in this building by Parliament, the Council of Ministers buys expensive carpets, the most expensive office furniture, expensive cars. I'm really wondering where that policy is going. It's also a question for elected representatives, but to Bogami and to every man in this country. In all Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, all people need to ask themselves one fundamental question: Is the opium so strong in this country that it must in every opportunity and on every issue defeat the fundamental principles of solidarity and equality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2486	Thank you. Zlatko Miletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2487	Thank you very much. I have to say, I'm confused, too. Here, really listening to Mr. Nović, who is an experienced man, I like to learn something, and this argument he gave earlier on about the Electoral Law, I would like to hear something similar at least when it comes to this proposal by Mr. Magazinović, to hear what is contrary to this proposal. I'm asking you to look, I'm going to show you this, and my discussion is similar to that discussion I had last time I talked about this issue, I really can't understand that we here, our meeting of ministers in the Council of Ministers care so much about those 800 marks. So, I, my people, can't figure it out. Look after this survey of... MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliament are... in Europe. We are the first in Europe compared to the average salary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means times six. When you go and look all the way, including the European Union countries, the lowest ratio has Malta, so their parliamentarians have a salary below their average, so their population. We have six, six times the average citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are fighting, please nice, and those 800 marks to take. I have to say to me it's really, really embarrassing. But I'd like someone to convince me why and why what Denis said last time was constitutional, and now that it's not constitutional, maybe we'll hear something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2488	Thank you. We've exhausted it, I'm sorry, we've got Bariša Čolak. Correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2489	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I do need you to look back on a few of these discussions, just clarifications for the sake of it. I also said that on the Constitutional Commission, but obviously I have to repeat now, Article IX paragraph 2. The constitution is very clear. And as long as that doesn't change, I will always represent the position it says in the Constitution. That's one dimension. The second dimension is that of human rights. Namely, if you are in the same position, or in a similar position, two or more entities in a different position, it can be embossed with human rights violations, absolutely. I don't say 100 percent that's the case, but we had, if you remember, a lot of problems and this one, ours, that's a lot of suffering, so our budget according to certain lawsuits when it comes to justice. You know what happened when it comes to holders of 17 judicial functions. And for those reasons, I, therefore, have decided as we have decided. That's one dimension. And the second dimension, I really think things should be solved, so not partially, that they should be solved globally, and I think that in that sense we should simply make certain changes. I agree in the sense that it is very necessary to make changes in terms of, therefore, wages, I don't know about soldiers, it was about cops, it was about our civil servants, but when it comes to this proposal that was specifically given I think simply that the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission was absolutely based on the Constitution and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2490	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. That's what we've exhausted the discussion with. The vote is on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Give me a vote. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. Therefore, in favour of 8, four abstentions were voted against. General majority yes, entity majority yes. Therefore, the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples is supported and thus the bill has fallen. Let's go to the next item on the agenda, that's point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01-02-1-2145/20, of 14/01.2021, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. In accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. He also found that the proposed law does not contain the opinion of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency. The proposed House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delivered the requested Opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data BiH 02.03.2021 and 15.02.2021. Opinion of the BiH Directorate for European Integration. The constitutional commission of the House of Nations found that the bill was not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and did not accept the principles of the bill. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the Peoples Bariša Čolak if he seeks it. Don't ask. Thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2492	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2493	Yeah, it's the same thing. So, I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one answered for the word. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The vote was nine, against the vote four, was abstention one. General majority yes, entity majority yes. Therefore, the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is supported and thus this Law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2494	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2495	Mr. Špirić wants a 10-minute break. We've got a break of 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] We're moving on with the session. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01-02-1-495/21, of 1603.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2498	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2499	He's going, or he's going to get a match, I'm sorry. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Zlatko Miletić's delegation initiative, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is required to, on the basis of Article 7. Law on salaries and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 50/08, 35/09, 75/19, 32/12, 42/12, 50/12, 32/13, 87/13, 75/15, 88/15, 16/16, 94/16, 72/17 and 25/18) and Articles 17. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 30/03, 42/03, 81/06, 76/07, 81/07, 94/07 and 24/08), take a decision on the level of the base of return for employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2021 (minimum amount of 535.50 KM before the first reduction in 2008), establish an economic and social dialogue with trade unions in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and sign a collective agreement with trade unions, in accordance with Article 9. The Law on strike in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in direct negotiations with the Union, is taking urgent action to resolve the requirements unanimously to mutual satisfaction and benefit, in order to correct the existential status of employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina," number: 02-50-6-2098/20, of 23.10.1920. You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission did not support the initiative. Also on this delegation initiative, the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury was delivered. I give the word to Dušanka Majkić, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples if he needs to explain. There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative, Mr. Miletić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2501	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll, I may be boring to some of you, I know that, but since this question is already sour for six months, that we can't solve it, I'm going to repeat the things that I haven't had a chance to mention before, even though at our... session of the House of Peoples we talked about. I, given the fact that you are in the meantime, and I hope in these documents that you have received, that you have also received a reply from the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Finance, Mr Bevanda, I will read it to you. In response, he writes: The BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is based on the adopted Global Framework for fiscal balances and policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period '21-'23. adopted on 18 September 2020 by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers on 13.10.'20. Proposal for a decision on the level of the base for the calculation of salaries employed by Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for '21. A year. In that material, the proposal for a base height is 498.10, which is an increase of 4.7% compared to the current base of salary calculation, and the financial effect is 26 million at the annual level. To this day, the material has not been discussed at a meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers. However, what needs to be noted in the Budget Proposal for this year, as far as I know, such a proposal has been submitted. The unions agreed with such a proposal, given, and I thank the finance minister on this occasion, no matter what he is not here, for trying to talk to the unions, which they came up with, conditionally speaking, a common solution, although it is an increase, conditionally said, minimally, especially when it comes to the salaries of these least-paid employees. What do I want to ask you and what do I want to say? I just mentioned the average salary. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's somewhere near a thousand or a thousand marks, however you like, and when you take our employees, so you have six-seven paid classes, it's more than a third that's paid less than that average. Or, on the other hand, most of these paying classes have less pay than our own cobwebs. I will not be inappropriate because I did not see an act on it, but I have had the opportunity to hear a statement on this matter from a member of the Presidency, Mr Džaferović, who was in one sense right, and in the other, he said in essence that, among other reasons, the draft budget was returned and for that reason because he did not consider it necessary to resolve this issue in this way, alleging that it was primarily necessary to establish a fund for the assistance of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to pandemic, immunisation or because of some other problems, with which I am truly in favour. But what I'm trying to say to this occasion is that it wouldn't turn out here if, first of all, you here, and Bogami knows, even citizens don't get me wrong? So, if you happen to still be on track to adopt such a proposal, which is conditionally minimal and at least in this way to improve or try to improve the status of our employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, means from police officers, soldiers, meaning our hygienists, especially these people working with medium professional training, I want to point out one very important thing that as far as I can understand that this increase would be on all employees including us when it comes to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And at the cost of that happening, if that happens, I'll be quite free to ask, in that case, or to submit another initiative to remove all elected and appointed persons from the net salary 20% of our income and to make that fund possible, is it, to help our citizens when it comes to the pandemic or any other reason, because I think they really deserve it. But here, once again, I ask you, since everything here is constitutional and given that our unions are still on strike, even the other day they came out with a new request, since the strike was here a few days ago in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly institutions, they have promised 21 if this issue is not resolved that the strike will be organised in front of the Presidency building, here I am asking you to show awareness in this sense and indeed to show these most vulnerable ones, to show empathy towards them in a certain way, and that, at least here, to that extent, we increase their current wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2502	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. No Niko's ever answered for a word. So here I am closing the debate and voting the delegation's initiative, Zlatko Miletić. At present 14 – for vote 5, against vote 8.1 was abstentioned. We don't have a general majority so the initiative isn't adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative, which "The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to launch all the necessary actions to establish an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, in accordance with the Constitution and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of BiH", No. 02-50-6-547/21, of 03.03.2021. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission did not support the delegation initiative. I give the word, i.e. I offer to Mr Bariša Čolak, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2504	I submitted a proposal for the establishment of an Interresor Working Group here in the BiH Parliament on 03.03. Half a month after my proposal, the Joint College of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly also defined one proposal from the Interresor Working Group to deal with this problem. Accordingly, today we have two agenda points dealing with this issue, under point 8, currently my proposal to form the Interresor Working Group and the 10th point will be the proposal of the Joint College. Those who follow the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are probably wondering what the difference is, so I am obliged, in a way, to point to two fundamental differences between my proposal and the Joint College's proposal. The first difference is in the next one. My proposal envisions members of the Central Election Commission in the Interresor Working Group as members. The Joint College's proposal kicked 22 out of the Central Election Commission from the Interresor Working Group. It's my opinion that it's a bad move. And another reason is that my proposal makes it very clear that amendments to the Election Law can only be in the part where they are such that they do not violate the BiH Constitution, the European Court of Human Rights rulings and the BiH Constitutional Court. So again today I propose to the House that we accept this concept of the Interresor Working Group because, I remind you, all previous inter-resor working groups formed in this Parliament in recent years and decades have always had members of the Central Election Commission in their composition. I think that the members of the Central Election Commission can make a very important and active contribution to the work. I therefore remind and call on the Interresor Working Group to be members of the Central Election Commission. Of course, there's a lot more to say about that, but there's going to be this 10th point on the agenda, so there's going to be a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2505	No Niko's answered the word. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative. Attending 13 – voting for 4, the vote was 8. abstentioned 1. We don't have a general majority. The initiative has been rejected. Let's go to point nine, that's it, Ad. Nine. The Delegative Initiative Denis Bećirović, which "Home of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on all municipalities and cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, in the interest of building peace, tolerance, trust, mutual respect and affirmation of anti-fascist values on which contemporary Europe rests, ban any direct or indirect expression of glorification or affirmation of the two most notorious war criminals and kvising in the area of the former Yugoslavia – leaders of the Ustaslavi movement Ante Pavelić and leaders of the Chetnic Movement of Draže Mihailović, as well as all other members of the Nazi movements, organisations, military formations and associations, regardless of what nations or religions they were, and who during the decisive fight against Nazism as the greatest evil in human history, organised anti-215/05. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission did not support the delegation initiative. I give the word, I offer Bariša Čolak, chair of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the applicant of the initiative. Here you go, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2507	Thank you. On March 23rd, this year, and officially in parliamentary procedure, I sent a proposal like this. And I must say that one of the reasons why I referred this to the parliamentary procedure was the fact that a few days before that the Assembly of the Municipality of Bijeljin made the decision to build a monument to war criminal Dragoljub Draža Mihajlović. It is not the only example, but it is obvious that in Bosnia and Herzegovina it still does not stop with the greatness of criminals. In this case, World War II. That's why I'm obliged to say today that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an anti-fascist state. It's based on antifascism. Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood was restored in 1943 by anti-fascists, anti-fascists from the ranks of all Bosnian Herzegovina nations. And that's why I think we have an obligation to affirm and protect anti-fascist values in our country. I stress these are not ideological values, but civilization values, on which both modern Europe and the European Union rest. That is why I have therefore proposed that in principle I prohibit the greatness of any member of the Nazi movement, organisations, military formations and associations, regardless of which nations or faith they were because it certainly does not serve anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that we must also follow the principles and standards of the European Union and the West when this problem is at stake. The West has made these things very clear, and on the legal side, it has responded to revisionists and negationists. Those who tried that in Germany, France, Britain, Canada, the United States are very strongly sanctioned. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, too, we must begin to apply Western practices and standards. ... I ask a question here in the House of Peoples – what kind of message is that, for example, Bosniak and Croatian returnees in Republika Srpska's BH enter if you are building a monument to the criminal Draži Mihajlović. He and his Chetnik movement are responsible for the terrible bloodshed in World War II. And so is the Ustasha movement, and so is all the ones I've listed here. Does anyone need that? Shouldn't we finally say, "We will not glorify the people responsible for war crimes?" I think that such a message should be given to all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina without distinction. Because if we send such a message, we'll send a message of security to all people. That is why I call once again on us to accept the practice of the democratic world, to realize that antifascism is not, therefore, ideological but civilizational value and that we begin to apply these standards in principle in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Fighting negationism is a transnational phenomenon. It is not just the case, therefore, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to the Second World War, that some have appeared to relativise, reduce or distort it. There have been such, I repeat, attempts in the West, but the West has dealt with laws, even some states and constitutions, one serious system. It is time for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina to start applying those standards of the West.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2508	Zlatko Miletić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2509	It's a very difficult subject and I don't normally like to talk about these topics, but I have to, since I told my colleague last time, when it was a similar initiative, under the grains some of my suggestions about this issue. Now, I won't do it like that anymore, but I really have to go public. So his initiative as a whole I support and I think the fight against fascism in Bosnia and Herzegovina is simply unquestionable and that we should return to those anti-fascist roots. However, what bothered me in this initiative not to mention any Bosniak name. I'm not just saying that to get parity in this initiative, so whoever's there, let's have one Bošnjak. I'll read you something. He says – the Bosniak writer and Nazi ideologist was the bearer of the idea of the 24 nationalist and Panislam movement mlad Muslimani anti-Communist and anti-Semite, supported the attitudes of Nazi propaganda and persecution of Židov in Sarajevo by Ustaš and his written works and essays in the paper supported the Ustaška Movement. It was Mustafa Efendija Busuladžić. Now, I understand Beqirovic's concern when it comes to, whether it's building this monument or building in Bijeljina. It seems to me that ten years ago a similar problem was in Brcko District the same as Draže Mihajlović's monument, so the then chief of police of the Brcko District, so that people don't protest,... someone village to win the village, believe it or not, the way. What do I want to say? So, as he mentions Bijeljina or some other towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to mention the names of the streets of some in Mostar, we must also face this phenomenon in Sarajevo. We have 14 schools, facilities and squares that, unfortunately, bear names for fascist Bosniaks who helped the Ustasha Movement and committed the most terrible crimes in the city of Sarajevo. So I am for the initiative but I am also for being principled and that if we mention everything then let's mention all the names. And here, let me not list these 14 Bosniaks who have been involved in war crimes since '41. By '45. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2510	Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2511	Thank you. Honorable members of the College, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about principledness, antifascism as a civil value, I would only remind that Mr Bećirović, as the applicant of this initiative, often mentions Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment to be a member of the European Union and that there is no alternative, of course, to NATO membership. Only all of us or you who, if nothing, at least members of the Committee of Human Rights will remind you that in front of the HDZ, namely the CNS, Mr Nikola Lovrinović last year sent an initiative to the Parliamentary House of BiH to accept the Declaration of the European Parliament of 23.09.2018 and the European Parliament Resolution of 02.04.2009, and to make a decision marking August 23rd as the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, and to draw conclusions at the same session: 1. To honor victims of totalitarian regimes and encourage authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to enable and assist in identifying the victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims; 2. That the Council of Ministers, as far as possible within a year of the conclusion, is to adopt legislative regulations prohibiting manifestations, groups and associations that glorify totalitarian ideology and prohibit the use of totalitarian regimes. But it's not just fascism, it's Nazism, it's communism, because you know very well what people died in Bleiburg. 3. To recommend all the commissioners and chairmans of the municipal councils to form working bodies for research and collection of data on the victims and missing persons of World War II and... 25 If we're talking about civilization values, if we're talking about principle, we can't get principled in the wrong way. If we're saying we're not gonna celebrate the people responsible for war crimes, we can't just focus on World War II, we can focus on this past war. Well, then you wouldn't honor a certain number of generals here in Sarajevo even though he was convicted of war crimes. So we need to be principled. And in that sense, we can't support this initiative because it doesn't reflect either civilization values, and it doesn't reflect, so neither does principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2512	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2513	First, to avoid any misunderstanding, I am obliged to specify precisely what is in the initiative, because if we read exactly what stands then there are answers to a number of questions. So, I quote this part that is potentially not well read – as well as all other members of the Nazi movement, organizations, military formations and associations, regardless of what nations or religions were, and who during World War II, during the decisive fight against Nazism as the greatest evil in human history, fought or spread negative propaganda against the anti-fascist coalition. So, I again claim Bosnia and Herzegovina is an anti-fascist state, it follows that tradition and is its place on the side of the world's anti-fascist coalition. And this formulation is quite accurate. Of course, if it could have been expanded, but then this initiative wouldn't have been on one side, it would have had a thousand pages maybe. That's one thing. The second thing is, in World War II, there were two Nazi movements in the former Yugoslavia, such as the četnički and Ustasha movement. And there were leaders of such movements. Of course, if we were to go now to see by this command responsibility who are the most responsible, many in the government of NDH, from Mile Budak, Slavko Kvaternik, to Džafer Kulenović, etc., and many ministers, etc. Also probably on the basis of facts with Draža they would add Stevan Moljevća, Dragiša Vasić and many others, if I were not to talk about Chetnik dukes, etc. Well, if we don't talk in a row right now, that's a huge list. I think we need to resolve these things in a principled way, with one clear message to stop this disgrace, which is that in certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina war criminals, people who were not on the side of the world's anti-fascist coalition. Who did, and who wasn't on the side of the world's anti-fascist coalition in World War II, I don't decide either of us. That's what the American President Ruzvelt and British Prime Minister Čerčil said, among other things. Some say why we didn't focus...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2514	Denise, so you had a discussion, you've been through for a minute, uh, this was a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2515	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2516	Thank you. 26 Marina Pendeš, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2517	Thank you. So, I want to tell Mr. Bećirović that I can read very well, if I have to read well between the lines. So you're not principled because you're taking a segment. Secondly, the motive and explanation that you gave in the introduction, which is why you launched this initiative is the construction of Draži Mihajlovic's monument in Bijeljina. ... interesting Dražo Mihajlović come on now and Ante Pavelić, let's move on. So, if you wanted to be principled, you would have supported Nikola Lovrinović's initiative, then, a few months ago, if you wanted to condemn totalitarianism, or take care of the victims. But since you're not sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2518	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2519	I respect every innocent sacrifice, and I know very well that at the end of World War II there was something called anti-fascist retribution in Western history. But it can never equalize with Nazism. And this theory of equality and nivelation that seeks to equalise the Nazi movement with the anti-fascist movement in these areas will simply never pass in the West, neither in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know very well what Lovrinović proposed and what the aim of his proposal was. Therefore, the victims should certainly be respected but the equalization of antifascism and nascism could never and will never pass. And that's a message we must send very clearly. And what I personally think of the victims, I have also shown a personal example. So far, I am the only perhaps president of the Parliamentary Assembly from Dayton to today who has gone to Jasenovac and bowed down to the victims in Jasenovac. I was also in Vukovar, and in Srebrenica, and in Ahmiæi, and in Križanc's Village, and in other places. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Was I at Bleiburg? Do you know who's... at Bleiburg? Well, when the Ustasha generals came before the British generals and said we will not surrender to Tito's partisans, you know what the British generals said to Ustasha generals? Tito's army is our Allied army, and the end of the debate in the first minute of speech. That doesn't mean, and to say, that there were no innocent people at Blajburg who were killed, but the responsibility for it is excessively borne by the Ustasha movement because the question has to be asked who it is and why he brought these people to Bleiburg. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2522	No, because we're... 27
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2523	There isn't. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2524	Marina Pendeš, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2525	So you don't respect the victims. I'll just say, it's interesting that in the middle of which I never came from, most, 80% of people, maybe now they're changing their minds, saying when Travnik fell, from that army you're talking about, you couldn't walk from the dead on that road to the hospital, and the sanitarium where the hospital and that cave underneath was for days where bombs were dropped on the wounded and dying in torment. And don't tell me about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2526	We're done arguing. We're voting on Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative. Let's put it to a vote. At present 13 – for vote 5, against vote 8, abstentioned no one. We don't have a general majority. The initiative has been rejected. Moving to point 10, that's it, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of the amendment proposal and the addition of the BiH election legislation, Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-07-4-649/21, since 16/04.2021. You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and supplement BiH's election legislation. An Interresor Working Group will be appointed one representative each of the MPs' clubs in the House of Representatives, one representative each of the people's clubs in the House of Peoples, and three representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. We have already taken the proposals of the candidates from the chair clubs of the House of Peoples. These are: in front of the Serbian people Sredoje Nović, in front of the Croatian people Bariša Čolak and in front of Bošnjak Munib Jusufović. Does anyone need to discuss this? You have material in front of you that we're going to vote on. Denis Bećirović reported for the discussion, then Zlatko Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2528	Part of the things relating to the formation of this Interresor Working Group I have already presented at point 8, but now we have, here, and a proposal from the Joint College that we are discussing and I am looking at this Article 2 of the proposed conclusion on the formation of the Interresor Working Group. As we can read in Article 2 there are no members of the Central Election Commission of BiH. Once again, I remind all inter-resor working groups so far, and this is not the first to be formed in the 28 parliamentary assembly, there have always been representatives of the Central Election Commission. I think the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be answered today on this agenda point and on this topic – why there are no members of the Central Election Commission in the Interresor Working Group. The BiH Central Election Commission is legitimate and legal. Why is she around? CEC members have always been on one of these committees. Look at what it says in Article 4 of the conclusion we are currently discussing, it says – during the process, the Interresor Working Group for amending the election legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will, if necessary, consult experts from the NGO sector, the Central Election Commission, the Academic Community and others. My question – who are the experts of the Central Election Commission? What that means is that someone here is telling us at the session right now. As far as I know, they have members of the Central Election Commission. What is meant by these "experts" now, not to mention that they will be consulted if necessary? Of course this Article 4 is absolutely clouding your eyes. Here, I publicly say today, which is the date, we'll follow up and see if they'll ever be consulted at all, even the consulted members of the Central Election Commission. So I propose and specifically, in order not to make a mistake, there is room for us to agree and to supplement and say that within this Interresor Working Group, the Central Election Commission will also be represented. This is my concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2529	Zlatko Miletić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2530	I'll try to be brief without repeating myself. My suggestion is very close or very similar to what Mr Bećirović was talking about. But so it doesn't turn out all negative first to compliment you, thank you once, to another college, here we are, finally in a situation to create this joint Interresor working group. And I believe that from this article or Article 3, when it comes to this mixed composition, you simply gave an opportunity to all the political parties involved in the work of the House of Representatives, or the House of Peoples, to give an opportunity to give an opinion on the election law itself, or on these individual solutions. What do I really want to ask you? Yes, today, here, this opportunity, if there's a possibility, that this article or Article 4 can be converted to these, these persons that you've led here to be permanent members of this team. Why? As far as I could see from the means of public information, even a few ugly words fell there, so to speak, between the individual ambassadors, Ambassador Kvinte and us from Parliament. One insisted that members of the SIP or the CEC, however you wish, be members of this body. I will mention only one situation that has happened, this is what Mr Špirić remembers, given that I have closely followed how he discusses at this session, that instead, and that the conditions of both colleges have long been met to convene a joint session of the Parliamentary Assembly where only this would be a topic. Since we haven't been able to do that, the "Under the Ball" Coalition had, like, 15 days ago, organized such a gathering, which, I think, was very solid. And the discussions at that rally were really solid. I don't see any reason why, let's say, one representative of that coalition "under the bat" wouldn't be a permanent member of this team, so no matter what it's called, what nationality it is. I think they really deserve attention, so when it comes to this NGO sector. So they, and we have about that, if I'm not mistaken, and the written address you got on one page about a dozen days ago, that they're really begging and asking to get involved in this whole process. Or that certain members of the academic community, I wouldn't run away from it, that if you wanted from both entities, 29 we would name at least one doctor of law science. We have many in Bosnia and Herzegovina who could make a significant contribution. Why am I actually saying this? As long as we really have an actual intention,... to solve this issue I am in favour of whether, if we open it completely and... we open up to the widest port to make the solutions offered by this possible Electoral Law as high as possible. And I mean, here I am not going to contradict you, but I think it would be very good that, in this article 4 or Article 4 of the conclusion, these persons should be appointed as permanent members of this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2531	Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2532	Thank you, Chairman. I need to say that the colleges of both Houses of Parliament have done a good job on this proposal. I think it's an optimum that, uh, at this point, it's different to think about it. I'm not talking about the current Central Election Commission. It is a perfectly reasonable approach that members of the Central Election Commission should not be in the Interresor Working Group. This does not restrict them in any way that they can adequately refer their proposals to the Interresor Working Group for discussion. Why? I'll point. They, responsibly, at a time when I was a member of the Interresor Working Group had a significant impact on decommissioning, therefore, total weaknesses in the BiH Election Law. They kept the incredible position of a seven-year term without restrictions and were perfectly interested in change in this regard. If even my esteemed colleagues in a joke said something, they were scared of what was going on. We gave them the position that the representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's highest legislation have. They didn't do anything to improve the quality of municipal election commissions because they were... the way it went. One banal thing I'm going to say about the abuse of fictitious political entities and individuals in the election process. They never wanted to step away from just one simple thing, it's called drawing political subjects. I suggested that it be in every constituency. So they didn't want a burden. And one more thing, the Central Election Commission, look at election committees across countries of the region, to this extent, to this extent, a bureaucratised body with poor effects, dissatisfied and positions and opposition in this story. That's why I think their subjective influence would further retain the status quo. We need amendments to the Electoral Law, but I don't underestimate that they have... If we see how the electoral, DIP, the State Election Commission in the Republic of Croatia does, in the Republic of Serbia, all of this, objectively in the electoral process of these two countries, just so I don't mention others, are much less accompanied by affairs than in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] So here's how much I'm going to say. We need to make the Central Election Commission replaceable, and we need to make it impossible for this mandate to last more than two times five years and that they choose different terms in one year, of course so that they are not a body that will, therefore, often be a purpose to themselves. When it comes to NGOs, I appreciate the involvement of their and professional relationship with this. But sometimes we also have ideas for the public and to justify certain financial resources, whether creditor or anything. So here, however it may be in these amendments to the law, it will be decided by the Parliamentary Assembly. We didn't limit anything, so however proposals may be, no member... MPs will not restrict to propose an amendment within the framework of this Interresor Working Group or in the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly or the competent commission. [[You don't understand.]] 30 Thank you. I needed to say that. I'm not defending, but I think I'm really congratulating the college of both homes, and I think they've done rationally in this situation. They made significant concessions against the earlier proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2533	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2534	Well, I want to say that this is not the first Interresor Working Group to amend the election law, but it is the first one in which there are no members of the Central Election Commission. And that's why I asked in the debate and I repeat once again that we have a public response to why there is no Central Election Commission, what are the reasons? At one of the previous meetings of the House of Peoples, we were all witnessing that counterpart Dragan Čović, for a pay phone here, told the People's House that the current Central Election Commission is illegal. Does evicting members of the Central Election Commission from the Interresor Working Group mean confirming this Covic's thesis on the illegality of the current CEC? Is that perhaps why there is no CEC or have any other reasons? Anyway, I think it's quite correct to hear why the CEC isn't in the Interressor Working Group.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2535	Zlatko Miletić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2536	I must not be misunderstood by Mr. Prodanović, but here is a certain way to take advantage of the opportunity and another objection to give, not to his exposure. On the condition that this remains as it is written, it obviously will, to ask you to include one important thing in this, in this paragraph 4, Article 4, however you want, in front of the words "non-governmental sector experts" and "experts from the international community", because this issue is very important and it will be of interest to representatives accredited in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think the issue will also be of interest to experts from the Venice Commission, OHR, which is the issue, when it comes to the Dayton Peace Agreement, if you will and partly in their jurisdiction. And I think that this way, if not for nothing, we would open up space, and there's going to be such demands that they attend such gatherings to see how we do and in what direction, that we simply don't eliminate them, considering, and I know that people will be interested in how this process is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2537	Thank you. We've exhausted discussions and replicas with this. Let's vote this way. First, we will vote on the very proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to electoral legislation. And then after that, we'll vote on fill-in by the House of Peoples. We vote, therefore, first on the conclusion on the formation of the Interresor Working Group. 31 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can, uh, if you want to. What do we do? [[College agreement]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2540	We can unite all of these points.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-04-27-0.u2541	So we have 11, actually 11 is, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for crimes provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, issue: 05/6-50-15-487/21, of 24.02.2021. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Commission has adopted the Report together with the recommendation set out in the Report, and is proposing its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives held at the 18th session, held on 30.06, is not possible, so we have some mistake, only in 2020 did it adopt the Report along with a recommendation from the Report. I offer the word to Lazar Prodanović, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. Is there any need for you to speak to Lazarus? There isn't. 32 I give the word to the bearer of the report, if he is present. Yes, it is. Do you need to explain something? There's no need. Here, the Reporter finds the report sufficient. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on a report whose name I won't read again, I've read it several times already. Who's for the report? 14 is present – 12 voted for, no one was against, they were abstentioned 2. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. A report on the work of the Independent Commission has been adopted. We still have the agreement to ratify the agreement and the amendments to the agreement. I suggest we bring the debate and the plea under points 12, 13 and 14 together, including item 14 of the agenda. Are we in favor of bringing this together? Let's put it to a vote. 14 present – 13 is for, 1 is abstention. So we have the general majority, we have the entity majority. We'll unite the debate. Ad. 12. Giving consent to ratification Amendments to the Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-21-1-786/21, of 09.04.2021. Ad. 13. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment 2 to the Grant Agreement to support the State housing programme between the Council of Europe Development Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the housing regional programme, issue 01.02-21-1-787/21, dated 09.04.2021. Ad. 14. Granting consent for ratification of the Loan Agreement (Reimbursement and Support Project for Enterprises/Employees between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction (9183-BA), No: 01,02-21-1-788/21, of 09.04.2021.
