ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9264	Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests. I am opening the 17th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, followed by an anthem. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The BiH Council of Ministers' Office has notified that the chairman, Mr Zoran Tegelti, will not attend the session due to earlier commitments. The absence from the session was justified by representatives: Vlatko Glavaš, Ljubica Miljanović, Nenad Nešić, Obren Petrović, Dragan Bogdanić, Edita Đapo, Mirsad Kukuć, and the delay was announced by MP Šemsudin Dedić. At this moment, there are 33 MPs present and I agree that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As regards changes to the session agenda, the following points are added to the agenda: point 4. Request of a representative from the Club of Representatives of the SDA to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of this House. Point 5. A request by a representative from the Club of Representatives of the SDA to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, also in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of this House. Point 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Readmission Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Ministry of Interior of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the implementation of the Readmission Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Point 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Sarajevo Public Transport Project - Part 3) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Point 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Grant (The Gradac Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the investment grant under the "European Joint Fund for the Western Balkans" programme. 2 Point 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Credit Line No 2 to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Deposit Insurance Agency) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Point 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on international road transport, signed in Sarajevo on 1 December 2020. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Enver Bijedić reported for the debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9265	Thank you. I took advantage of the opportunity, of course I won't discuss the agenda, I would like to apologize to you, chairing both all my colleagues and colleagues for the inappropriate conduct of the Prosecutor's Office of the Tuzla Canton and for doing enormous damage to me and this, too, to the reputation of this House. I apologize, once again, to all of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9266	Thank you, Agent Bijedić. Representative Damir Arnaut's hearing, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9267	Thank you, Chairman. We propose a new item of the agenda, we also submit a proposal in writing and material appropriate in written form. So, on the basis of Article 71. We propose to the Rules of Procedure to include a new agenda item – Information from the Agency for Public Procurement of BiH and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH on the necessary conditions, obstacles and all available solutions for emergency procurement of Coronavirus vaccines. As I've already said with the appropriate material in writing. The explanation is very simple, there are daily discrepancies in public information coming from top officials from the Council of Ministers and other institutions on the sufficientness of the current legal framework for the needs of obtaining vaccines directly from producers, conditions that are necessary to meet, the possible needs of amendments to one, the other or both laws, and other related topics. This situation is creating confusion in the general public, increasing citizens' mistrust in the work of institutions and their ability to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, and extending the isolation of BiH and its citizens from the rest of the region and the world, taking into account that vaccination has already begun in many other countries, including in our neighbourhood. At the same time on the basis of Article 68. We asked the Rules of Procedure to call an emergency meeting of the House of Representatives with only one item on the agenda – Information from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Public Procurement on these issues. 3 So, specifically to come to the Director of the Public Procurement Agency, to come to the Director of the Medicines Agency, within three days it is necessary to call on that session, urgently and here to tell all MPs and before the eyes of the public what should be done to ensure that different levels of government, if necessary, can obtain vaccines directly from the manufacturer. We are due to this tape, currently going on in BiH, at all levels of government now in one doubt what it is necessary to do. So, we have people from the same institutions, we have a chairman of the Council of Ministers who says no law should be amended, we have his deputy who says that the law needs to be amended. We have a situation in which even the people of the same party provide conflicting information on these issues. No Niko is more invited than these two directors, these two institutions, to come and specifically say what is necessary to do, whether anything needs to be changed, if anything needs to be changed, if nothing needs to be changed, given that we also have this information from the highest levels, how these procedures should be implemented, and all with the aim of getting the vaccines to the citizens of BiH as soon as possible. So here is the request to include the agenda item, and we also submitted a separate, separate request for an emergency session, and at which these directors would appear, whether and provided information in accordance with and based on what arises from this item of the agenda, if it is included today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9268	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9269	The contribution of a brief explanation to include this item on the agenda, along with all of what counterpart Arnaut said, is another important thing that this item of the agenda should be today, and that is because it can offer an answer or answers based on which a decision will be made whether a criminal application against the Council of Ministers, but also the Ministers of Civil Affairs, Mrs Gudeljević, will be made, because if someone at the time when all countries in the orchestration are getting vaccines and when there is a process of immunisation here publicly says that there is no need to change laws, and obviously it is an obstacle to obtaining vaccines, then the question is whether there are elements of criminal liability. If Minister Gudeljević makes an official act explaining why vaccines will not be bought directly by saying that factories, or producers do not
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9270	...legislator, please stick to the agenda, if you have a proposal for a new point with an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9271	I want the chairman, I'm the signator of this point, and I'm explaining why it's important that we discuss it. 4 So if Minister Gudeljević sends an act saying that we cannot get directly from the manufacturer because they do not have international legal subjectivity and cannot conclude with them a bilateral agreement, so it is a document with signature and seal – what did she tell us? Yes, that producers are not states, so we know that, but if that's an explanation, then the question is whether there are elements of crime, violations, or harm to the health of the population. So, you all here know that a crime can be done when you do something, but a crime can also be done by inaction. Here it does not seem what should be done to make the state buy the necessary vaccines. The consequences of this are catastrophic, even fatal, and this is why this is to be debated. Because if the institutions of the executive and legislative authorities cannot resolve this issue of justice, and when these points of the agenda, proposed by the SDA, we will also discuss these procedures and laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9272	Thank you. I find that you have misused the business provisions, the proposal for a point, which you are also a signator, had a motioner before you. Representative Dragan Mektić, debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9273	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, if there are any of them here at all, I am not sure and distinguished guests. I've got a concrete addition to the agenda, I've got it in writing, I'll hand it over, but I want to explain this addition to the agenda before that. At last session of the House of Representatives, I also proposed one item of the agenda, which you as a College, in my own personal court, and what knowledge as far as I have, illegally refused, did not allow to vote on it, on the grounds that the session was legally scheduled, which I did not at any time dispute, but also legally, legitimately, legitimately suggested and complemented the agenda and asked us to plead on it. You, on the grounds that the session is detailed, legally scheduled, cannot prevent Members from proposing new items of the agenda, or you cannot prevent them from being declared by this House. And I was talking about how the House of Representatives' sessions have become completely pointless, unnecessary and we don't actually decide anything from what we're responsible for, which we should discuss as the highest authority in this country and as a legislative body. We don't put any key problems on the agenda of our citizens, who are bothering this poor people, which is why the people are running from BiH and this House of Representatives, so to speak, becomes pointless. To support that, see the agenda, says point 14. A review of Vlatko Glavaš' parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In the wake of the great success of BiH basketball players at the placement, from Eurobasquet after 22 years, I propose to the competent minister at the Council of Ministers that this success adequately valorises." What do we propose, what do we have to do with it? Well, I guess there's a minister of civil affairs who's doing his job and we're getting involved and we're proposing something to the minister to do or not to do. Point 16. Making the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking and medical means, here I am finishing, BiH 5. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9274	I warn you that you have run out of time, you have not proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, any addition, or any modification of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9275	I'd like to suggest a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9276	I don't know, it's yours, it's why you called.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9277	I propose that the 17th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly be suspended and that the session be continued when conditions are reached and reform laws and topics are found on the agenda which are essential for EU integration and key problems for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9278	Thank you very much. Representative Mirko Šarović's hearing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9279	Thank you. I take the opportunity to welcome you all and propose a new agenda point in accordance with Article 71. Rules of Procedure. It is known to the public that BiH, on January 01st 2021, lost the status of the most privileged nation, the country in trade with the United States, and that after many years this status has been lost, in light of the importance of this status of BiH, I propose that this dom ask the Council of Ministers to deliver detailed information within seven days on the reasons why BiH has lost the status of the preferential state in the export of goods to the United States since 01 January and that it must pay full customs duties, and the measures taken by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, so that BiH remains involved in this specific mechanism of the beneficiary countries which allows them to achieve the improvement of exports and production by means of certain criteria when it comes to origin. In an explanation, I may just say that a similar arrangement or the same arrangement of BiH had until the end of 2017, when the multi-annual arrangement expired, but in negotiations with the US administration, the mechanism was restored in early 2018. So I think that, as from now on, our exporting businesses in the United States have to pay extra customs duty, it seems to me, of 10%, and that their business is at risk or not as competitive as it has been so far, I think it is necessary to submit quality information within seven days. I think it's an emergency. I would also like to say on this occasion that there is still time to say that at the 16th session, of the 03rd February, there are three initiatives in which we asked the Council of Ministers to provide quality, credible information regarding the measures taken by the Russian Federation and the ban on the export of 6 pears to this country, issues relating to the fulfilment of conditions for further exports of chicken meat, processed chicken and eggs to the EU, which is at risk, as well as information relating to measures, i.e. sanctions that BiH received from the Energy Community also in December 2020 and measures taken by the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers. We didn't get that information, please, given that this deadline is up and running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9280	Thank you, counsel. Representative Nikola Lovrinović debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9281	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Greetings to all present in the hall, for the first time I'm rolling. So, I'd like to discuss on the subject of a proposal to supplement the agenda for both of these, to call them conditionally, the proposals. Namely, now in the context of the proposal that we have information today about what fellow MPs have proposed, in the same proposal or as they have said in a special proposal, an extraordinary session or emergency, haste,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9282	Just to warn you, again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if you have a new point to include You explain, and we will not debate or through a replica you could answer to some points, and this is not the case with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9283	I meant this proposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9284	No, not at all, it means only if you have a new proposal to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9285	I don't have a new proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9286	Thank you, counsel, for understanding and respecting the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any more reported at this time, but now I'm asking you to make a statement on the order of the drafts to supplement the agenda. The first to come forward was a representative of Arnaut on behalf of the group who proposed a new agenda item at today's session, and it reads - Information from the Public Procurement Agency BiH and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices on the necessary conditions, obstacles and all available solutions for the emergency procurement of Coronavirus vaccines with appropriate material in written form. 7 Please state whether we are in favour of putting this point's proposal in today's session agenda. Of the 34 present – for 23, against 3, abstention 8. I konstatirati that the Information from the Public Procurement Agency of BiH and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH is about the necessary conditions, obstacles and available solutions for the emergency procurement of coronary vaccines with the relevant material at today's session on the agenda. I am now asking you at the same time as the same proposal, and by a group of representatives, we are asking, at the same time, to convene an emergency session of the House of Representatives with one item of the agenda – Information from the Agency for Public Procurement and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices on the necessary conditions, obstacles and all available solutions for emergency procurement of coronary vaccines at which the directors of the Agency will provide all relevant and concrete information in accordance with the conclusions that arise during the debate over the proposed agenda point. Please state if you are to call an emergency session within three days. Of the 33 present – for 25, against 3, abstentions 5. There is a general, there is an entity majority according to the voted conclusion session will be scheduled, today is Thursday, so at the same point that we are discussing today will be ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9291	Thank you, Chairman. I took a look at this record from the 16th session and here I saw it say – 41 MPs present, MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic gave up. 11 I have an objection to the fact that I did not attend that session too, because I left it out of practice because I do not agree with this manner of work of the House of Representatives, as I will do today after you refused my proposal and I asked it then and there is no record here, that that day does not count me as a paid working day because I did not attend the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9292	Thank you. Representative Branislav Borenović's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9293	Thank you. It is clear from paragraphs 24 and 25 that three conclusions have been adopted which oblige the Council of Ministers to deliver to the House of Representatives within 15 days of certain information. I think this is exactly what this record showed that we have a continuing, illogical relationship by the Council of Ministers. I would like to point out again to the chairman that at the meeting on February 3rd, we clearly adopted a conclusion asking the BiH Council of Ministers to provide within 15 days the House with detailed information on the decision of the Energy Community to impose sanctions on BiH and the activities the Council of Ministers has taken to ensure that the sanctions do not come into effect and the plan of activities to meet the obligations of BiH, which would remove the grounds for the imposition of sanctions. It is clear in the record that the time limit is 15 days, and we are here at today's session, I did not want to answer because the matter in the record is stated, we do not have this information on the agenda. Also today, there is no information that has been required by the Council of Ministers to do so within 15 days, and this is clearly stated in this Minutes, to provide us with detailed information on the fulfilment of BiH's obligations with the EU agreement on chicken meat exports, chicken meat processing and eggs for industrial processing, as well as measures taken to ensure that BiH does not remain without export licences to the EU. And that information is missing, it is not available today at this session, and the minutes have made it clear that it was a commitment that we gave to the Council of Ministers for 15 days to do so. And the third conclusion reached through point 26. at the previous meeting of the House of Representatives, which again asks the Council of Ministers to deliver within 15 days to the House. We have detailed information on the decision of the Federal Veterinary Service and the phytosanitary control of the Russian Federation to temporarily prohibit imports of pears from BiH, or the Republic of Cyprus, measures taken after 21.12.2020 when Russian partners warned BiH institutions of the possibility of introducing restrictive measures, as well as data on exported quantities of pears, apples in 2019 and 2020. And this conclusion, adopted by the dom at the previous session, recorded through this Minutes, is not respected by the BiH Council of Ministers. This is only one in a series of dozens, probably hundreds of conclusions and decisions made by the House of Representatives, which was committed by the Council of Ministers, which is not implemented. And I wanted to re-absorbed it in a certain way, quote it as one fact that in continuity repeats itself when it comes to the work of this House of Representatives. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9294	Thank you, counsel. I listened carefully to what you said and just to remind you that we are at point 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Representatives. You yourself, Your Honor, have found that you have no objections to the record, have read certain conclusions that are stated, probably according to the stenogram, if you have had a comment on the record you could, all of this you have made is not a comment on the record, it concerns something else, the realization of conclusions etc. So I would remind you that these remarks do not stand. As far as the record is concerned, dear colleague Mektić, who made this presence known at a given time, I am asking the services to keep the presence and presence in line with the stenogram and the application neatly recorded in the case of this record. Here, please that according to these findings we will approach later and adoption. If there are no more reports, and I can't see, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions Article 170 is replaced by the following: By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing asked MPs: Damir Arnaut asked ten questions and addressed one initiative; Saša Magazinović asked one question; Aida Baručija asked eight questions; Predrag Kojović asked two questions and asked a rush to deliver an answer; Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic asked one question. Initiatives to the College of the House of Representatives addressed: Vlatko Glavaš, Damir Arnaut, Zukan Helez, representatives from the SDA Club and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. The following answers were submitted to today's session: the questions of Saša Magazinović were answered by 46 answers; the questions of Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic were answered by 16 answers; the questions of Representative Damir Arnaut were answered by eight answers; the questions of Zlatan Begić were answered by four answers; two answers were provided to Aida Baručija; two answers were provided to the questions of Šemsudin Mehmedović. One answer was submitted to the question: Borjana Krišto, Dženan Đonlagić, Enver Bijedić, Adil Osmanović, Nikola Lovrinović, Sanja Vulić and the representative from the Club Our Party – Independent Block. Any comments on the answers received? Representative Arnaut, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9296	Thank you, Chairman. So, I comment on the response of the BiH Ministry of Security following a series of attempts to get a response from the BiH Border Police, an unsuspecting attempt, or an escillation of the response, I finally asked the Minister of Security within whose ministry the Border Police are acting, to provide me with an answer to a concrete question, I am thanking Mr Cikotić for what he did, this, I express the satisfaction of this answer. And when it comes to the content of this answer, we have truly catastrophic data from the BiH Border Police, it essentially has, we have received information that we all knew, but now they're black on white and that information shows that in the last year, BiH Border Police stopped the entry of 10,749 migrants from Serbia and Montenegro to BiH, and that in the same period it stopped the exit from BiH to the Republic of Croatia as much as 10,852 migrants. So, according to this information, the BiH Border Police are more effective at protecting the border of the Republic of Croatia and the interests of the Republic of Croatia not to be entered by migrants, but to our external border and our interest that migrants do not enter the country. This is something that really requires the responsibility of the Director of the Border Police, because they essentially serve to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and their border that migrants do not enter them, not our border that migrants do not enter us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9297	Thank you, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9298	The word has a respected chairman, Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9299	Thank you very much. Here I would like to comment on the question addressed to the Minister of Security, Mr. Cikotić, and I must say that I am really not satisfied with the answer, simply because I did not get an absolutely concrete answer to the question I asked. Simply from this answer was delivered, a written response to satisfy a particular form required by the Rules of Procedure to answer the parliamentary question. However, in a letter submitted to me, it was numbered that the Ministry of Security was only following some trends in migration, working on some kind of information proposal with a plan of measures and management activities, that there was some working group for the creation of a strategy in the area of migration and that the Ministry was monthly monitoring and real information about the situation in the area, and in a special way, which we all learned, that the management of the migrant crisis was one of the 14 priorities of the European Commission's opinion and as if none of us had seen it before. And about what concrete measures are, such as the question and the note, this one, taken and what result is taught or withdrawn there is no word. And the concrete measures in this case would be whether this procedure for the mutilation and adaptation of the Foreign Law, the Regulation on the registration of the biometric characteristics of foreigners with the situation of an increased inflow of illegal migrants on BiH territory, because... we will be brought into the situation that precisely because of this permanent storage, which is provided for in the Regulation, this, biometric data, we are at risk of being returned to BiH and criminals and terrorists after five years and not counting all others. Furthermore, a concrete management measure for the migrant crisis would also be that the Law on Foreigners also applies the Asylum Act in its own measure, meaning, when it comes to illegal migrants or to launching the procedure for the adoption of the rules on the internal organisation of the Border Police so that they could be ensured in fact by the lack of both human and material resources, because we have talked on this subject many times both at the level of this House and of course through various committees. In fact, all of these are just some of the concrete measures of managing the migrant crisis, which are directly in our and in your jurisdiction as a resolute ministry, which were actually not 14 words in this response. So what I can say about this other response delivered, to make it clear what is really a relationship and approach to this burning problem, which is primarily for all those who live in BiH a matter of security, and then of course everyone else. Thank you very much. No more registered under this agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Review of MP requirements: Zlatan Begić, Mire Pekić, Zukan Helez, Branislav Borenović, Damir Arnaut, Dragan Mektić, Nada of Mladina, Nermin Nikšić, Vlatko Glavaš, Predrag Kojović, Aida Baručija, Saša Magazinović, Dženan Đonlagić, Enver Bijedić, Nenad Nešić and Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić for the start of the vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers (change of Justice), number: 01-50-1-310/21 of 3rd. 2. 2021. That request to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, which concerns the replacement of BiH Justice Minister Josip Grubeša, was delivered to the Rules of Procedure on 3 February 2020 (?). The BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, MPs at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I remind you of the provisions of Article 154. Rules of procedure stipulating that the motion for a vote on non-confidentiality and reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is compulsoryly included in the agenda of the House session after 20 days and no later than 30 days from the date of delivery of the BiH Council of Ministers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure (1) call on the proposing representative to explain the proposal for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. Agent Arnaut, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9301	Thank you, Chairman. As you can see, there is a series of promoters, i.e. signatories of this initiative, I, as chairman of the Interim Investigation Commission on Justice in BiH, will explain the part relating to the lack of co-operation of Minister Grubeša with the investigative commission, and my colleagues will also explain this initiative from the aspect of other issues. The interim investigative commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to determine the situation in BiH's judicial institutions has been acting since, was established in May of last year, and has held 26 sessions, where we have heard numerous witnesses from the judiciary, from the BiH Council of Ministers, from agencies and directorates at BiH level, entity institutions etc. etc. We have heard the most officials from those institutions and so far we have not had a situation of full refusal of co-operation, we have had some obstructions, but they have all finally appeared before the Commission. For the first time, however, we have encountered a situation where we have twice scheduled an appointment called by the witness, or representatives of his cabinet, as acceptable, so both the date and the hour, but both times the witness, after confirming those terms, cancelled his testimony before the Commission. 15 In particular, at its 24th session, held on 02.02.2021, the Commission adopted a conclusion requiring the replacement of the justice minister for poor results of working and refusing to co-operate with the Interim Investigation Commission. At the 22nd session, held on 11 January 2021, the Commission decided to call on BiH Justice Minister Josip Grubeša to appear at the Commission at one of the next sessions, and in accordance with our established practice, it also tasked the Commission's secretariat to contact the minister to discuss the most optimal date for his testimony before the investigating committee. The e-mail correspondence between the secretariats of the Commission and Mr Grubesa's cabinet is attached. The Secretary of the Investigation Commission agreed with the cabinet representatives of Minister Grubesa on January 25th at 1400 hours, the correspondence was also attached, and immediately thereafter the 23rd session of the surveyed committee was called for on that date, and the minister was sent an official invitation. Half an hour before the start of the session, Minister Grubeša informed the investigative commission that he was unable to attend the session, the correspondence is also attached. I have seen media reports in which Minister Grubeša claims that he sent the memo three days earlier, his memo really does carry a date since January 22nd, but the seal very clearly shows that it was received in the parliamentary assembly on January 25th, I do not think any correspondence travels two floors, it does not take any correspondence four days to cross two floors into the same building. So it was definitely received half an hour before the session started. The investigation committee therefore decided at the meeting to invite Minister Grubeš to appear on the stand before the investigative committee on 02.02 at 12:00 hours, and according to a second written notice received from the Cabin of Minister Gruvesa that the above date corresponds to him. This correspondence is also attached, all dates are very clearly visible. On top of that, the investigation committee received an act from the Cabin of Minister Grubeša that the minister was not able to attend the testimony with an explanation stating that - testimony, quote, open quote, was not scheduled in any of the terms that we provided you, closed quote. And the contribution shows that the testimony has just been scheduled on a date that Minister Grubeša's cabinet pointed out explicitly as acceptable. In view of all of the above, the Interim Investigation Commission has adopted a conclusion that BiH's co-operation with the investigating commission has not been reached, and another conclusion on the need to replace the minister. As I have already said, this presentation concerned this co-operation with the Commission, which, by the way, was prescribed by the explicit Law on Parliamentary Oversight, which requires all, except explicitly excluded, BiH-level institutions to co-operate with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, including its investigative bodies, and the refusal of co-operation is particularly serious when it comes from representatives of the executive authority appointed by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9302	Thank you. Representative Zlatan Begić's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9303	Thank you. Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the executive government, media representatives and the parliamentary assembly administration, I welcome you all very much. 16 I would like this debate, which will follow, to be seen in no way as an ad-hompic attack on the personality of Mr. Grubeša, or the political option from which Mr. Grubeša comes. I would remind you that representatives of the executive government, specifically when we talk about the Council of Ministers, must receive the support of this body in order to become what they are. I am one of the MPs who voted for the current Council of Ministers' meeting, including the appointment of Mr. Josip Grubeša at the post of Justice Minister. Therefore, it should not be explained to anyone in particular that ministers do not set up parties, they only propose them and that the reasons for political culture and the civilizational values of mutual communication among people first require that we all communicate among ourselves, especially when it comes to executive officials, who, in addition to being obliged from the point of view of political culture to communicate with the members of the authorities who appointed them, chose them, represent, therefore, their obligation. Of course, we are all aware that neither individual, nor any of us here, nor Mr. Grubeša can solve the difficult problems that exist in BiH alone, especially when it comes to the justice system, but we all have the key together to solve these problems, and in order to solve them, we need to talk. I repeat, it's a matter and a political culture, talking to members of the authorities who gave legitimacy and legality, I stress, to someone to act as an executive. And be assured, and here I am saying, the moment the Minister of the Democratic Front doesn't respond to any parliamentary body, which has been elected by or by the committee of this body, you won't have to wait for any of the other political entities to initiate the procedure of his shift, that's what I'll do, that's what the Democratic Front Representatives' Club will do. So we are a country of parliamentary democracy, where parliament chooses the government, so to speak, I would like there to be an organ that can call us parliamentarians to account, because it is true that here every institution has contributed to the state in which we are. It's not just the executive power that we've chosen, and the legislative authority is carrying a huge part of the blame for the situation we're in, and we know it well. There are some causes that are deep outside the institutions, but the main reason is that there is no communication. Unfortunately, we, there is no body that can call us members of the legislative body to responsibility and ask for our shift, as we have done in this case when it comes to Mr Grubeša, Minister of Justice of BiH. Only citizens can do that, and I invite them to be rigorous in assessing each of us's work in two years. When it comes to the functioning of the investigative commission, I can't really understand this move by Mr. Grubeše, not giving up on one conversation. I must tell you, and that can be confirmed by all the people who have testified before this Commission, that every conversation has been conducted at a high civilization level with only one goal to identify those causes that are problematic from the point of view of repairing the situation in the judiciary. Let's ask people who are troubles, if they have any blockages, if maybe someone who belongs to the parties in which we find ourselves having real problems, is blocking some processes, and thus damages the process of reforming this extremely significant area. So I do not see the reason for not giving up on the call of the parliamentary body, and I repeat again, especially given that this parliamentary body has given both the legality and legitimacy to the entire Council of Ministers, including Mr Grubeša, and if we take into account the composition of the Interim Investigation Commission, you will see that there are also people who have set up their votes, so to speak, this Council of Ministers. That is why I ask you to understand and understand this procedure today in this sense. So, the situation in the judiciary is what it is, that's not what I'm saying, that's what the relevant institutions say, that's what international officials say, that's what the people of the judiciary say, that we've been hearing, and that's the alarm for all of us, including the legislative and executive authorities, and in this respect we all have to do what we can and do our best to unblock these processes, and the least we can do is talk about it, because it's not the biggest problem if you have a problem, but it's a big problem if you refuse the problem even to discuss it. So, 17 sessions of the investigating commission, the Interim Investigation Commissions are not any kind of witch-burning polygon, but a place where we talk in a civilized way about a problem that is a problem for all citizens and that we simply need to talk about, because in this country we have the highest functions. So, the results of the ministry itself are bad, but the results and other ministries are also bad, the work results and this Parliamentary Assembly are bad, and that all points to the fact that we need to start talking first, so we need to start talking about solving the problem, if we want to get to a better tomorrow for the citizens of this country. I thank you, so you wouldn't go too far, I've had so much to say this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9304	Thank you, Agent Begić. Representative Zukan Helez's hearing, here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9305	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Co-chairing, representatives of the Council of Ministers, if there is anyone, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here I am one of the signatories for this shift, one of the 16, whether, us and I am a member of the Interim Investigation Commission on the work of the judiciary. Here, as we have seen, you do not have to accuse the opposition that we are in motion, counterpart Zlatan Begić said well, he comes from a party that has a council of ministers, meaning from most, he is not satisfied, they are not satisfied and why the opposition would be pleased, and I will explain why we did it. As you know, the Interim Investigation Commission had a lot of problems while it was forming, it was against a long college, some MPs, and we're sort of, whether, let me say, this one, we pushed through, we got the green light to examine BiH's judicial actors who make key decisions in the sector. I must admit that at the beginning, we had immediate obstructions from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, who called on judges and prosecutors not to respond to our call, but with the help of certain embassies and ambassadors we have somehow overcome it and I must say from those high-ranking officials from the judiciary, he just didn't respond to Tegeltija and, as you know, he resigned. The other man who didn't respond was Minister Grubeša and everyone else responded, here and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, yesterday we had, uh, been heard on that committee or here we talked, it heard it kind of uglyly, whether, sounds. I will also remind you that the president of the BiH Court of Justice Debevec, that the chief prosecutor was also heard, is with little resistance, but was heard, this one, and everyone else we called responded. Which is why the minister didn't respond, he didn't confess to the Commission, it's an ad hoc commission, and it's kind of a pioneer commission that's perfectly normal in the countries of Western democracy. What bothers me more about Minister Grubeša and why I'm on shift, which is why I'm voting for a shift, which is the Council of Ministers Act, says that every law must be agreed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. And the gentleman mentioned is at the head of the Justice Ministry and, of course, he has to go for, at the European Integration Office, to get the consent of this one, only then can he come to the Council of Ministers. Given that most of these 14-priority laws are about to be proposed by a gentleman or should have proposed by Mr. 18 Grubeša and not done so. This gentleman will be asked when and when will the Law on VSTV, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Law on Public Procurement, the amendments to the BiH Constitution, the Election Law, all of this fall within the key 14 priorities put before the European Commission and EU representatives. I no longer trust that man, he had more than a year to deliver at least one law in the procedure from the set of these 14 priorities. I am increasingly convinced that the minister is on the remote control of certain people from individual hegemonist centres of power, and unfortunately this is what happens to us that certain ministers, MPs, have fat salaries from this country, and act by definition as parasites, suck the country's budget just like a parasite sucking the blood of the host, high wages, receiving and destroying the one they joined as parasites and stopping all the processes in BiH. I'm particularly interested in something today, and I'm curious about how the SDA's creditors are going to vote. I want to remind the public that the SDA is constantly wandering from hugs with HDZ and SNSD, which are obstructing this country, and then returning to the civil parties and telling us about civil and multiethnic BiH. Here's a chance to see today, so last time was an excuse when we voted on the Council of Ministers' mistrust, it was an excuse that we couldn't form a new one, and then I said it couldn't be an excuse, because the old Council of Ministers is working until the new one formed. Today, if you vote for the shift of a man who is obstructing BiH's path towards the EU, I will believe you are for the BiH state, there is no excuse today and if this minister is not appointed now, the Council of Ministers can work, by law it is known who is changing the minister. Also, I want to say that not only is Minister Grubeš someone blocking these processes, in this country happens to bring a man off a tractor for the president of the state, we make him a gentleman and then says I can't wait for the representatives of the international community of BiH to leave in 24 hours. Here I want clear from here and loudly to tell him that I, too, Mile, is waiting for the representatives of the international community to go, to see where you're going to stop. It's a lot of Mila rule of the state of Mrkšić, Martić, Babić, so today you don't know where they are. And I am telling all those who are making obstructions on BiH's path to the EU and the work on the head of this country will come on shift before these MPs and will not be well celebrated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9306	Representative jasmin Emrić's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9307	I thank the Honorable Chairman. With respect to the BiH Minister of Justice and respect for his earlier commitments, I would like to join my colleagues and colleagues who have submitted this initiative for the replacement of the Minister of Justice, and on the basis of the information provided, accompanied by the acts and the fact that the initiative is fully justified. Looking at the allegations from the proposed initiative, and taking into account the importance of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission, which was appointed by this respected House, I find it unacceptable that the minister of justice at this current time of public and transparent discussion on the state of justice avoids talks or testimony before the Interim Investigation Commission. BiH Justice Minister or the first man of BiH justice has the obligation and responsibility to provide the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public with information on the situation in the judiciary and judicial institutions, he does not have the right to avoid this obligation, nor to reduce the importance of the direct need for improvement and continued reform of the BiH justice sector. The BiH Minister of Justice must co-operate with the legislative bodies in carrying out his duties and implement the decisions and conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, namely in a specific 19 case, respecting the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has appointed the Interim Investigation Commission to determine the situation in the judicial institutions. The minister of justice had to respond to the commission's call to testify and present achievements in the judicial sector's current reform. BiH's justice minister had to find time to present to the investigating commission all the reasons for the stalemates and obstacles that slow down and relativise the reform of the justice sector. So who else, if not the first man of justice, will provide the investigating commission with information and information on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Reform of the Justice Sector between 2014 and 2018. I would like to remind you that the BiH Council of Ministers adopted on 8 September 2015 a strategy for reforming the justice sector for the period 2014-2018. Is there anything more important than the minister of justice meeting with his testimony the investigative commission on the degree of implementation of this Strategy? What earlier commitments have been made to the minister more important than the minister of justice getting to know the investigative commission on the achievement of the adopted vision for the BiH justice sector? What is more important to the minister of justice, and what earlier commitments does it make it to present to the investigating commission the level of efficiency, efficiency and coordination of the BiH justice system? What is more important to the minister of justice than his obligation and responsibility to monitor the implementation of the adopted Strategy, to inform the public, and to testify before the investigating committee about the successes or failed reform of the justice sector over the past five years? My opinion was that BiH's minister of justice had to, for at least an hour, find an investigative committee to present achievements during the five-year period in the most important areas of reform of the justice sector, and give the following answers to the judiciary – what was done to strengthen and maintain independence, accountability, efficiency, professionality and coherence of the justice system that ensures the rule of law in BiH? To enforce criminal sanctions – what is done to bring BiH's criminal sanctions system in line, which, by respecting European standards, provides human and legal treatment and effective rehabilitation in BiH prisons? To access justice – what is being done to improve the system of international legal aid and to establish, strengthen and maintain systems and processes that guarantee equal access to justice? To support economic development – what are the achievements in defining and implementing measures that will help the justice sector create a more favourable environment for BiH's sustainable economic development? And finally for the justice sector – is the justice sector coordinated, well-managed and responsible sector, how is this set as a strategic goal that was to be achieved in the period of implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy from 2014-2018? All of this is what the BiH Justice Minister should have witnessed and shared information on the level of reform achieved in these five most important areas in the justice sector. How will we restore trust in the judiciary and judicial institutions if the minister of justice does not cooperate? How will we determine the true, objective and complete state in judicial institutions if the first man of justice is not prepared for transparent dialogue and communication with the House of Representatives? I'm really interested in why the Justice Minister is afraid to go before the Interim Investigation Commission, which he actually has to fear, whether it's embarrassing because of the professional incompetence and lack of authority in the legal profession or the unpreparedness and conscious political avoidance of cooperation. Whatever it is, it cannot be justified to reduce the importance and role of the Interim Investigation Commission to determine the situation in judicial institutions, nor is it possible for the minister of justice to undermine the reputation of these functions by ignoring the decisions of the House of Representatives. Because of the negligence and latent avoidance of the obligations and duties of BiH's minister of justice deserves a shift, which is because of the lack of political capacity in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will not reach it, it is not our responsibility. It is our responsibility to advocate and work to implement reforms in the justice sector, and to make the roles and responsibilities of the most important institutions in the justice sector in BiH more effective, transparent and responsible justice system more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9308	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9309	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I refer to what Mr. Zukan Helez and Mr. Emrić said. Namely, it's not mine, and that's Mr. Helez you know, that I'm protecting and defending my colleagues from the SDA Club, but you said one sentence, which here, I don't know what, whether they're going to refer or not, but I need to say and to respond to when you said they were in the embrace of HDZ and SNSD. So I would say that they are not in anyone's embrace, but they are part of the parliamentary majority and as we are most responsible for what is happening here and I hope that they will behave today. When it comes to Mr. Emrić and his advocacy of many things, I would say the following, therefore, that he, not some but most of the things, said incorrectly, and later in the debate I will further explain, however, that he does not get the wrong impression in the public of what he was saying about the minister and his work. So, Minister Grubeša, like other ministers, as the Council of Ministers, submits a report to this House and has always done so until now and every year. So, we, when we submit these reports, have ways and opportunities to discuss everything, about all the questions that you said, and, in my opinion, he was just doing an honorable thing to defend the independence of the judiciary, which he didn't answer, because this commission was illegally formed. So, you're the investigative committee he's hearing, and it's a shame that you've been heard from by the prosecutor in charge, and I'll talk to the President of the Court later. So you have no right, all these bodies report to this House and to another home, and then we can discuss everything and discuss it. So, you're looking for who you are, who you are later, than that commission, so all kinds of questions, all of these in this report, are in other reports that I'll also mention in the debate later when we get back. Therefore, you are incorrectly saying that the minister does not respect it, the minister, in my opinion, has just defended the independence of the judiciary in this way, it is a pity that the chief prosecutor and the president of the court did not do so, so they had the right to refuse... the pressure on the independence of the work of the judiciary, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9310	Thank you. Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9311	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the correction of the wrong allegation concerns that members of the Interim Investigation Commission are involved in some illegal or possibly illegal activity, which is precisely what the esteemed counterpart Lovrinović says. I have never in my life, and I believe neither the fellow members of this Commission have participated, so I claim for myself, but also for these people, we have not participated in any illegal activities. The activities of the parliamentary body, chosen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, cannot be considered illegal, nor can 21 be considered illegal and I initially asked to refrain from difficult words. The difficult words cloud our problem, number one, the lack of communication, which we must have at all levels and at the level of parliamentary bodies and at the level of the House of Representatives and at the level of the executive authority and at the level of political entities and at the level of individuals, and I believe that, in that sense, members of the Interim Investigation Commission deserve an apology, because these are too difficult qualifications that we are part of some illegal body carrying out illegal activities. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to you, and I would like that since the meetings of the Commission are open to the public, that all MPs come and listen to what is said there, these reports that we get mostly do not contain what is the problem of the judiciary, and that is why this is a temporary investigative commission and formed, precisely because of what it does not say in the reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9312	Representative Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9313	My correction of the wrong allegation refers to two parts of his fellow Lovrinović. The fact that you're in a hug with the SDA is saying that you're defending them, here we have extremely smart people in the SDA Club and they could say, I'm not going to vote because it comes from HDZ, this, Minister Grubeš, but because in a year and something from his ministry has not come, uh, on this Parliament's agenda. That's why, if it's not an alarm, if you've all agreed, or if I don't know, and the citizens of BiH that you hate to nominate this one, I can't watch it, and that's the only reason. And that about your work commission, so beware for you is an illegal American ambassador, for you are illegal U.S., for you is an illegal German ambassador, the German state, for you an illegal ambassador of Great Britain and Great Britain, for you is illegal this Parliament, for you the commission is illegal, the President of the Court of BiH is illegal, so only you legal. Little wonder what's wrong with you, Mr. Lovrinović, the whole world is illegal, just you legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9314	Representative Nermin Nikšić, correction of the wrong allegations, you have a word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9315	Thank you. Well, Mr. Lovrinović did end up fenced himself, although he did repeat several times that he believed that this was an impact on the independence of the judiciary and that it was not necessary for the chief prosecutor and vice president of the Court to respond, in the end he fenced himself, so he said in my opinion, which was, then, this one, but precisely the fact that both the chief prosecutor and the President of the Court had responded might actually show that they think that the Commission was legal and that they were obliged to respond and give adequate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9316	Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9317	Thank you. As BiH's Justice Minister sees his role, I don't know how he interferes with his business, and I don't know it, because I don't see it, his presence and his commitment to fostering reform in the justice sector, it's my general impression, but I also said that I didn't understand why he didn't show up in front of the investigative committee, because he should have said it, too, if this is his position, that for him, this Interim Investigation Commission is not the body to which he has anything to say. But I recalled that there are strategic documents adopted by the Council of Ministers, which was also signed by the BiH Minister of Justice, the Strategy for the Reform of the Justice Sector, for a five-year period, that is, the period 2014-2018, which is a clearly prescribed role of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice as a coordinating body for the reform process in the justice sector. And he, after all, should have said his position to the Interim Investigation Commission on the overall view of this situation in the judiciary, but it was avoided, I don't see any reason why. He could have done as much as anyone else would have done his duty, as much as I don't know how, but it certainly would have mattered if the first man of justice had appeared before the Interim Investigation Commission, which is conducting only talks, informative talks that should help us all to continue our processes and continue reforms in the justice sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9318	Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9319	So, all my colleagues who have manifested themselves in my intervention have, in my opinion, misunderstood me or wanted to understand it that way. So, I didn't say illegal but illegal work does. They have been legally elected by the Rules of Procedure, is this possible, and against the law, because I think that there is direct pressure on the judiciary in this way and it is not the first time that Parliament, this House of Representatives, continues to make such decisions. And sir, this and Begić, and here are the other colleagues, so why should the minister or any of these people who report to us yearly reports report to you, to that commission, and then you convince us, so he says we should come and tell us, so we'll talk, and let him come before the House and talk. There's a report that's been filed annually on him for everything that's necessary, if there's nothing to be concluded, they have requests and are asked by the minister, by the court, by the judiciary, by the prosecution, by each other. So, I didn't say it was an illegal Amira embassy or anyone, which you, Mr. Helez called, but it's illegal pressure, if it's how you convinced, that it was, that you had support, you had this, so that's the pressure on this Parliament, just that I don't know whose embassy it is. Therefore, it is pressure, it is illegal, but they are legally doing their job, it is none of my business, so, but someone can't ask this Parliament to behave and can have an opinion on something, but to support it, directly ask that this Parliament, the Council of Ministers work on someone's orders, so where is it in a sovereign state, so I don't know whose ambassador it is. That's what you said, I didn't say, I didn't say they were doing illegal work, they're ambassadors and they work here. So this, that we have a prosecutor's office called the investigating committee and it runs the hearings of the defendants, the President of the Court, the minister, the prosecutor, they're only hearing them, so I don't know, who's going to judge, who's going to judge, so I'm going to be including myself later, to see who's going to judge, what you've been questioning, who you've been interrogating, by what methods, to see what 23 you'll submit to this report to this House, which is what I'm saying, therefore, is, in my opinion, direct pressure and congratulations, but I'd like to congratulate the prosecutor and the President of the Court that they haven't responded to you. They had the right not to respond, they can't do anything, they're independent, they're reporting to you, go ahead and discuss the reports, go ahead and change the laws. Let's change the laws, and then let's talk... not, therefore, just so some popularity gets out in public that he cares about the legal system in BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9320	Representative Zlatan Begić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9321	Thank you, Mr. President. Partly correcting the wrong quote, and part of trying to give an answer. They will judge the people, they will judge the times, they will judge the history of who did what and what they did. So I want to repeat once again that the Interim Investigation Commission is formed by the decision of this body and that it is not a single prosecution, it is not any prosecution and there are no defendants and defenders there is one forum, one place where at a high civilization level we are discussing problems that objectively exist. Because groups and individuals don't want to hear it, but knowingly ignore that kind of problem for years now, that's another thing, including mottos for what it's been doing. So, I want to repeat that, and I can testify to every person who has been in front of the Interim Investigation Commission, that communication has been conducted at a high civilization level and that we have found out there are many things that do not appear in official reports, and that is the problem, is not what comes into the report, the problem is what is not in the report. When it comes to the pressure on the judiciary, all of us here, including the competent institutions of the executive government, including the citizens of this country, need and we need to put pressure on that part of the judiciary that is corrupt, which is bad. It's our duty, if nothing for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9322	Representative Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9323	Thank you. So I think that my colleague Lovrinović has gone a little too far, not to use another word and gave one kind of experience and comment on the decision of this House of Parliament, and Parliament has decided to form a temporary investigative committee, and we must respect that, as has been decided by Parliament to choose the Council of Ministers, which we should also respect all and beware of the words that do not stand. If it is against the law or against the law, then I should say, on the basis of this, that the Council of Ministers is illegal, which is not, as is not illegal, the Interim Investigation Commission, which has received the mandate of this Parliament to open a very serious, difficult, complex topic, which has been present for years and shows us that we have an extremely poor situation in the judicial system of this country. It is, after all, ours and obligation, it is ours and obligations and some, of some parliamentary oversight and has shown itself, at least personally from my personal experience as a Parliamentarian in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and here in the BiH Parliament, I had the opportunity at that time in the Committee of Auditors, which opened also a very sensitive, complex topic and succeeded in this work, which I have no doubt that 24 of this Interim Investigation Commission will succeed and believe that when you hear certain things in the report that, I am convinced, will appear very quickly, how important and good Parliament's decision to form the Interim Investigation Commission. By our very work we opened up the space for people from the judiciary to talk about some topics they should never have said or didn't want to say, I was shocked by some facts in the judiciary itself, and particularly shocked by certain actions, corrupt actions that took place during a period of time. Which is behind us, and we'll probably talk about it at some other time. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9324	Thank you. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9325	I am a member of the Interim Investigation Commission, but I am not a MP who voted for the Council of Ministers, nor for the minister we are talking about today, and I must say that everything that I did not vote for turned out to be, that the reasons were really good, and I did not vote for the affairs that related to individual ministers, or then candidates, for, because of the incompetence of the people who were proposed in the Council of Ministers and the third reason was to disregard the Law on Gender Equality. So, when we talk about the work of Minister Grubeš, I would say that here in his case is one of the reasons why we are discussing his shift today, because really no one can convince me that a professor of Latin can perform the role of minister of justice and I would say that this is already his second failure, because if he had been successful today, we probably wouldn't be discussing his shift and maybe there wouldn't even be this Commission to investigate the situation in the judiciary, because, by now, seven years or six years from now, we would have solved some things anyway. I would just tell Mr. More Lovrinović, that if we were legal and legal, is it legal and legal, in fact the same thing, Mr. Grubeša could explain to him where the root words are legal, legality, etc. What I would still look back on, because there's a lot of talk here, so his relationship with the investigative commission, I wouldn't repeat myself, it's also talked about not having, therefore, reform laws on the table, or in the agenda of our sessions. I would talk about whether Minister Grubeš had not been celebrated, to put it that way, either at the position of the head of the governing body or at the position of the minister in the sense of, therefore, the management functions of the ministry he is headed by. I would like to remind you that we have also discussed here a report on the audit of BiH institutions, particularly with emphasis on the reports of those institutions that have received an opinion, meaning, with a reserve, or an opinion with a distraction. I have to say that one of these, one of these institutions and the Ministry of Justice, is particularly devastating since the Ministry of Justice should be an example to other ministries and other institutions of how laws are actually respected, and in that sense I also think that the minister, therefore, has also shown his incompetence in the management of the ministry, so I would say, incompetence. So, I would just like to remind myself that the opinion has been audited with the reserve, I quote - due to the irregularities identified in the application of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and the 25 Labour Act in BiH institutions, and in relation to internal transfers during the probation period, the conduct of the work of the second working place and the evaluation of civil servants. I would say that these laws for those who work in the state service, and here I have worked for four years and therefore metrically I can talk about, are an alphabet of some regulations that must be overcome to be, so a successful executive. This indicates that this is not the case, because the Institute of Reserve Lists has been abused, the Institute of Internal Transfers has been misused, and then the Institute for the conduct of the job of a absent employee, or another post, etc. The report also said that the minister did not implement the recommendations from the five-way report, therefore, from the 2018 report, that of the 13 recommendations six were unrealised, four implemented and only three are under way. The report also states that they have not been sufficiently explained, i.e. that they have not documented the costs of the phone through determined amounts, then that for these, the performance of second-time jobs is subject to both the legal basis and from the point of view of engagement and from the point of view of the fee granted, etc. So this is about things that really represent an alphabet and when it comes to legal knowledge, but also about handling the body that is being handled. But what surprised me, here is more than these failures, is the testimony of Minister Grubeša on the draft review report, where he says – that the management of the institution in 2019 did not act in accordance with the Internal Audit Act of the institutions following the error in the collapsing of mail, so that's an excuse, so there was a late signing of the internal audit plan. Then, that the Ministry of State, beware of this, did not at all evaluate civil servants for that year, which is an obligation under the Law on State Service and Sublaws, due to a complicated procedure for the movement of mail within the Ministry of Justice. So, I was actually fraternised by these findings, and she was fraternizing me, and I could say the impudence of a minister who says in his reply – that the Office of Audit is not qualified to give grades and to interpret regulations, speaking of regulations on the state service, nor is it the jurisdiction of the Office. So, I chose to talk about this part because I read the review report very comprehensively and I was a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance who questioned the minister and did not in any way convince us that, nor has there any justification for what he did in 2019, or what he did wrong. And that I would agree with Mr. Lovrinović only in that we do get reports, but we differ by how we read them and how we vote for them. So, for the reports delivered by Minister Grubeš so far, I wouldn't vote and I haven't. And speaking of reports, then from those reports, this is the Minister of Labour's 2019 report, so here's just a few notes. There have been no meetings regarding the harmonisation of BiH's legislation with the EU's legal legacy. It is then noted that the laws that would actually represent reform laws were not adopted, only then was the beginning of the formation of a group to draft the Law on VSTV. So these reports themselves show us, in fact, that this is about one great inconvenience, incompetence, and here colleagues have listed here and perhaps some other reasons, because it doesn't matter, so who's in whose arms I have to say, and we all see who's in whose embrace, and here I see that Minister Grubeš defends and people on the blacklist, I don't think I'd really be proud to be in their embrace, so here we are already announcing whether he will pass or not, but our job here is to actually tell the public and show the work, or the lack of a minister of justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9326	Representative Branislav Borenović, here you go, private. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9327	Thank you. Well, as the distinguished colleagues said, the fact that the only person who did not respond to the Interim Investigation Commission's call, and confirmed her arrival, was the minister of justice at the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it is true that all key people who could give us some answers to the overcoming, above all, the situation in BiH's justice system and were key people from courts and prosecutors, but the first man of the BiH Council of Ministers would have just yesterday, which I think confirms by itself how justified the reason for the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission was precisely from this House of Representatives. I think that it is extremely inappropriate, irrevocably and one very bad message that comes from the country's executive authority, that it does not appear, that it does not respond to an important parliamentary committee's call, especially given the fact that it was agreed with the minister of justice and that the justice minister has just offered the terms that we have accepted for one, for us, a necessary, necessary conversation, and that is one of the reasons that MPs respond. What else will MPs do than respond to a request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, if we have such a negative relationship between the minister of justice and the House of Representatives, according to Parliament, towards the citizens who chose their representatives in this House. I am one of the signatories of this request and I will further strengthen it with several more very important facts concerning not only the Interim Investigation Commission, but also the House of Representatives themselves and certain decisions that we have made in the previous period here in this House of Representatives. Today is the 17th session, the previous 15 sessions took place in the term of the current Council of Ministers, led by Mr Tegelti, which includes Justice Minister Grubeša and in these 15 sessions in just over a year we have discussed many times, unfortunately at least the materials that came from the Council of Ministers, and much more about some other materials, it has been shown that MPs in this House have the capacity to offer themselves certain documents that are important for parliamentaryism in this country. But we had a lot of conclusions, a lot of initiatives that were made qualified by the majority, and even a lot of times and unanimously, right here and about, which were actually binding on the Council of Ministers of BiH, you know that I keep insisting on it, because what is more important to Parliament than if we adopt something here, which is why we ended up and gathered together, if it is not the party we tasked with doing so, and we have many examples of not implementing decisions right here in this House. I will not talk about the requirements for amendments and additions to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial advice, I think that there were at least five of them, I have them all here, that I am not wasting your time, that is, my colleagues have spoken about it, at least five times this Parliament has reached a conclusion or initiative that the Council of Ministers within or from three months or without defining the deadline to deliver to the House of Justice and to supplement the Law on the VSTS and with even certain recommendations and we have adopted this here, we still do not have an amendment and addition of the VSTS Act, which was an obligation in these conclusions of the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers of BiH, 1601.2020, meaning more than a year ago, Parliament has reached a conclusion that the Council of Ministers is in charge that due to the disastrous consequences of the rule of law in BiH, which are primarily caused by the efficiency of the work in BiH, which before the first time the legislative order of the law of law is returned to the law, the law in which is to the law of law. 27 So, more than a year ago, we put in charge of the Council of Ministers, and yesterday the chairman said it was in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, to provide us with certain solutions according to our conclusion adopted here. For more than a year, nothing has happened, the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Justice is thinking this way about our conclusion. At the 8th session, in 15.05, we adopted a conclusion in charge of the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver, on the basis of an analysis of experts' reports on the issue of BiH's rule of law, to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the adoption of an action plan to remove shortcomings in the area of rule of law, to implement recommendations and measures contained in the report of experts on the issue of the rule of law in BiH, since 05.12.2019, the number, etc. etc. As long as it's been, there's no reaction, there's no response, there's no proposal from the Justice Ministry and the Council of Ministers to the House that's come to this conclusion. One more who tells us what the Council of Ministers and what the Executive Authority generally thinks of us, and it is my duty to react if the other will not. Let's move on, one conclusion that perhaps best paints the full evasive relationship of the executive authority towards the legislative authority, completely ignored, and I left it to in fact to underline why this request is not only valid, not only valid, but also necessary at this time. If we want to and I'm saying this because of you colleagues from the ruling coalition, to make things the most serious, we at the 3rd session, on 16 January 2020, mean, more than a year ago, you came to a conclusion unanimously, all of which took part, 39 MPs, watch out, everyone present in the hall, as regards the proposal of distinguished counterpart Alma Čolo, who came out of the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, asking the Council of Ministers to provide information on how much money has been paid out of the BiH institutions' budget for the costs of lawyers in criminal and other proceedings, i.e. for compensation for staying in detention of persons deprived of freedoms who have been legally released in criminal proceedings, and the click was paid on the basis of the rulings of the BiH Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights for Human Rights in Strasbourg for damages 6 years. European Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So, we haven't received more than a year's list of expenses paid to lawyers for certain procedures that we all voted for, unanimously and you, my colleague Lovrinović and I as your colleagues in this Parliament and all, 39 – of which from Federation 26, from Republika Srpska 13. And I asked all of this yesterday of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tegelti, why the Council of Ministers does not perform its basic duty and obligation to deliver on the demands of the House of Representatives that information and those things based on the conclusions adopted. And said Mr. Tegeltija, quite frankly, you know the ministers in their portfolios are quite independent in making certain decisions, therefore they bear certain responsibility and I, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, will see what is happening, but I cannot influence the work of any minister and the way it is described by certain rules, certain obligations and rights that every minister has in his Rossor. And that's why I think today's request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is a perfectly logical sequence of events that occurred in the past more than a year and I expect that today we will make a decision and show that no individual should be, and especially if it comes from the executive authority, above this Parliament that is bound by him Had a request for him. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9328	Aida Baručija's representative, here are the MPs. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9329	Thank the chairman, I welcome all present. My colleagues have explained the essence of the request, and I will briefly look back at a few facts. The trombone in performing the functions from the framework of your responsibilities, Minister, is particularly reflected in the fact of prolonging the release of the ravine to function. The foundation stone was set in 2006 and construction works started in 2014 opened at the end of 2020, and you have been minister since 2015. In your ministry, they believe that the delay in the implementation of the project has produced significant material damage to BiH, and has also affected the loss of BiH's credibility in the eyes of donors. According to information on the facts and circumstances of the prolonging of the prison's start-up deadline, which was set at a Council of Ministers meeting in July 2018, eight months of BiH's stalemate cost 3.7m euros. You yourself have stated that the monthly losses, because the prison is not open, are estimated at around 530,000 KM, although the complex is not, the prison, is not settled, or are not situated in the prison, the entire system is operational and operational, it is necessary to burn the heating, cooling, ventilation, control system, physical security, maintenance of the prison, these are your words. In addition to these costs, there are also the costs of staying detainees and detainees of the BiH Court of Justice according to entity criminal and correctional institutions of 40 marks per day per prisoner. Your unhappiness has damaged BiH's budget with over 100 million, 10m euros, excuse me. I will read from the audit report, as it is with both the reserve and the distraction, here you are drawn attention to the adoption of the Decision on the termination of the work of the Unit for the Implementation of the Building Project of the Institute, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board without prior control of the financial affairs of the Unit by the Supervisory Board. So you closed something before the financial assessment took place. Furthermore, in the ministry where you headed, for probably a known reason, have sealed several laws that are part of the 14 key priorities of the European Commission's opinion, some of the colleagues also spoke about. The adoption of these laws is crucial to bringing our country closer to the EU, so you are also in that segment a braker of the process. The head of the EU Delegation to BiH and EU Special Representative in BiH, Džon Satler, said a few days ago – it is no secret that I am not at all satisfied with the dynamics of resolving 14 key priorities from the European Commission's opinion, including the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, we have been talking about this topic for almost three years, the only thing that I am particularly unhappy with and which should be a priority bh. Politicians are pleased with the citizens, they want to see BiH in the EU, and 14 priorities are a list of their tasks to achieve this, and I call on all officials to speed up these processes. Here's an example of the Law of Conflict of Interest, three years ago we've been talking about this subject, and a few days ago we saw a new draft of this Law, which has been directed by the Ministry of Justice, which does not meet minimum conditions. We have made it very clear what the minimum conditions are, in order for this regulation to be acceptable, we want citizens to enjoy the best... The EU, the law must define what it is that politicians are allowed to do and what are the restrictions when it comes to political action, these are basic concepts and conflicts of interest. Minister, for three years you've been working on the law on the draft of a conflict of interest law and from the head of the EU delegation, Mr. Satler has received a score of one. I think you should have resigned on your own, because all of this clearly shows that you are not competent to perform the function you are acting. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9330	Representative Adil Osmanović's hearing, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9331	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. Allow me to state on this subject, the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the position of the SDA Members' Club. We've been waiting to see what arguments the signatories of this initiative will make, and then to come out with our attitude, which they would say, about that. We are witnessing that in the last three, four months we have had several initiatives for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, and on 11 January at the 15th session of the House of Representatives we had an initiative to replace the Council of Ministers. The SDA Members' Club does not escape, on the contrary, it is good that such initiatives come in a reasoned way that we always point out, taking care to preserve the dignity of this House and of every MP and minister, to bring out all the dissatisfactions, all criticism in one reasoned way, because it certainly puts a democratic pressure on the Council of Ministers to work quickly, above all on what we expect from it, which is the adoption and proposal of many laws, because the Council of Ministers' dissuasion is in a certain way stopping and the work of this House of Representatives. At the 15th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, which was held on 11 January, the Council of Ministers did not work well, it did slow down, I expect the Council of Ministers to, as it said, be serious, to work first and foremost on making laws that citizens and the European Commission, those 14 priorities, and we have set a deadline, really stand behind this, that if things don't change, the Club of Members of the SDA will make a final decision when it comes to the Council of Ministers half this year. I know a colleague, Josip Grubeša, I must be honest, I am surprised why he did not respond to this call from this Commission, I know him as a responsible minister, dedicated to his work, and I expected him to address the PSBiH House of Representatives here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to make certain explanations and explanations as to why he made this move. I will take the opportunity to give a few answers to my colleague Helez's discussion and to call my colleague Lovrinović on the SDA. A kolega of Helez said he was in some kind of SDA and HDZ hug. kolega Helez, we were together in the Federation of BiH government in 2011-2015. For years, to use that term, when we were in the arms of the SDA and the SDP, there was no HDZ, you only then launched one initiative, almost finished, to push the SDA out of the Federation of BiH government, and to enter into a firm hug with HDZ. We remember well those media contributions, the talks of the then prime minister, my colleague Nikšić and SDP secretary and his talks with the president of the HDZ Club at the Federation of BiH House of Representatives, when it was seriously discussed that HDZ and SDP enter the Federation of BiH government. I'm saying this because the SDA has no obligation to anyone, we're making moves depending on the situation and the political opportunities that are at our disposal at some point. We have no particular reason to defend Minister Grubeš, especially if we have the knowledge that the BiH Council of Ministers, in its session of 16 December 2020, voted, I would say, even if an initiative for the replacement of Foreign Minister Bisere Turković, the HDZ ministers, and also a colleague, Grubeša, voted for it. It would be for you to expect us to vote for Minister Grubeša's shift, but we want to talk cold, we want to run a cold head policy, at this point we don't want to destabilise the Council of Ministers, we want to do their job responsibly in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and we want it to be flexible, to really start working on the laws that we have been here for too long and too long. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9332	Thank you. Representative Sanja, Zukan Helez, excuse the MPs, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9333	Mr. Osmanović, you keep saying that we wanted once with HDZ, and we never left, and you've been waiting 30 years, you're in a hug with HDZ and you're waiting for HDZ to start changing the law, that HDZ, you're patient, you're cold heads. As you cool your head, Mr. Osmanović, leaves the youth of this country, your head will freeze completely, for 30 years you've been cooling your head, for 30 years you've been hugging HDZ, and you keep saying, you used to want HDZ. Tell the truth once, we're not for European integration, so I appreciate those people who say so, so our attitude is, we won't because of that and because of that and it's true that you were with us in the hug. I said in my discussion, you hug the civil parties a little bit, and then you deceive the public that you're for the civil state, and then you grab the HDZ and the SNSD and you say, well, this is, slowly, cold heads, until it comes along, etc. Mr. Osmanović, empty BiH while you cool yourself, you've stuck your head in the snow so much that you don't get that head out of the snow. Empty cities, empty schools, desert BiH, at least catch a cold once so you can't say no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9334	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, not keeping the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9335	...a mistake, a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9336	And a mistake, I'm sorry. Representative Aido Baruči, correction of the wrong allegation, here are the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9337	Well, I'd just like to replicate Mr. Adil. He says - I call on the Council of Ministers to get serious. So, you've let them be inconclusive these two years. So you say the minister is committed to his work, so you're surprised he didn't answer. Why did you not support this statement with any example of its good and responsible action? You don't want to destabilise the Council of Ministers. You're letting the Council of Ministers destabilise the state. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9338	Representative Adil Osmanović, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9339	kolega Helez, what you've brought out could have been a little nicer, a nicer dictionary to tell, but it's your way of discussing it. If someone were talking about SNSD and HDZ in such a way, so may our party or some other parties that have never been in power with them, I would understand, so you, a colleague of Helez, are in the period 2012-2015. A year in the Council of Ministers. Who were you with? With HDZ 31 and SNSD, so the SDA bothered you, so you pushed it out, you replaced the Minister of Security then, the Minister of Defence, etc. So take care, when you criticize or criticise certain things, you take care of your political history, your history, who you've been with, how you've been, and how you've run politics. As for the SDA, yes, and you admit, we were in the embrace 2011-2015. And we wanted to be with you again in 2018, something you were afraid of, I don't know what it is, something you were afraid of and something you wanted, you won't, etc. So I'm just pointing out this is why we have no obligation to any political entity, looking at who we can get the most benefits per country and per citizen at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9340	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kojović, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9341	I thank the chairman. I am addressing Mr. Adil Osmanović, three, in my view, are the three biggest challenges facing this Council of Ministers in this period, the pandemic of the Kovids, the migrant crisis and the acquisition of vaccines. Mr. Osmanović says he does not want to destabilise, turn, as I would say, attention is spent by the Council of Ministers on these attempts to change them. Are you, Mr. Osmanović, satisfied with the way the Council of Ministers handles one of these crises, migrants, pandemics and the acquisition of vaccines? What exactly would have disappeared, stopped and destabilised if this Council of Ministers had been replaced? That's if that's all you can answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9342	Thank you very much. We are going back to the debate, representative Sanja Vulić. Zukan Helez is the third correction, you have no business right. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9343	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. I will immediately say that I will not vote for Mr. Josip Grubeša's shift, because I believe this country has much bigger problems than all these criticisms are directed to Josip Grubeša. During this debate, I find it much more controversial to discuss Zukan Helez, who is even insulting to the Srbin. It is sramno and offensive to say that Srbin have come on tractors, Srbin are a valuable and decent people, an extremely valuable people and that they work on tractors as well. From Helez we've heard that this is the state and the Sava and the Vasa and Milorad and Bakir and Stipe, but I'm stressing, only according to the measure set in Dayton. The Srbin did not come on tractors, but live here for centuries, your words contribute to the destruction of BiH and don't be surprised that BiH is getting smaller when you don't respect the opinion of every constituent nation and its legitimately elected representatives. In the absence of leaders in your party and entity, your attention is focused on President Dodik. You are neither a voter nor a resident of Republika Srpska 32 and therefore have nothing to do with any issues coming from Republika Srpska, direct energy to your own party and entity. And in the end, I'll just say, someone's honest and proud and on the tractor, and someone's rude and unworthy and in Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9344	Representative Zukan Helez, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9345	The Honorable Chairman, I don't know how you let this, this wasn't a discussion, this was the correction of the wrong or something else, she didn't say a single moment about the agenda point. She defended and thought Milorad Dodik was all Srbin, Bog forbid
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9346	You, please refer, which business provisions have been violated.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9347	She didn't stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9348	It's not, it's a correction to the wrong quote, I take your word. Representative Nikola Lovrinović hearing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9349	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd start with this last thing Mr. Helez was saying and it's not the first time and it's not just him, so it's kind of a habit you've all given to HDZ, you've gone with HDZ, so let's make it HDZ for you. Mr. Helez, HDZ is a legitimate parliamentary party, registered by law and legitimate representative of the Croatian people. Are we Satans maybe? Stand up and say we're Satans, run a restraining order for our work. I don't know what you want, so go ahead, so we're a parliamentary party, registered under the law of this country, in the elections we get a mandate from our voters, and that's it and get through it. So, what makes you a better SDP than HDZ? You think you're better. You were here, Mr. Adil Osmanović told you, so we saw what you did. And as for Mrs. Lepić, I have to take advantage of a part of this debate and for that, because I said I'd talk about this too. So, I am speaking and refering to the work of this Committee, although I hope it will be the subject when the report is filed at one time, whether, in the fifth, sixth month, and also because it is obvious that from all the proponents of materials and signatories, that was the main reason for the launch of Mr. Minister's shift, because he did not respond to the Committee. Which can't be the reason, and it could have been written in the report, so maybe from the debate it turns out that, because I'm coming back again, we're getting reports from him and from all the institutions. In addition, we have a report on the judiciary, we have a report from Judge Corner, so we could discuss everything and everything, and then we make some conclusions, among other things, about the launch of the minister's shift. But because he didn't call or respond to this investigative committee, when it's called ugly by me, this is what they're doing, they're starting a procedure, so his shifts. I expect, perhaps even before that report or in that report, that this investigative 33 commission has launched work and is working, as far as I have information, that at the end of its work or before that, it will propose the shifts of the BiH judge, the BiH prosecutor, so I don't know, so the Commission takes those rights, it's an investigative commission. I memorized Mr. Helez's sentence, which he said about the chief prosecutor - yet the chief prosecutor was heard, yet the chief prosecutor was heard. Is that possible, then? Now, so, when we get to that report and we're once presented, I'm going to ask my colleagues to tell us, so what you've been hearing, how you've chosen your partners, the judiciary isn't just the BiH Court and the D.A.'s office, the judiciary is from cantons, municipal courts, etc. Let me see if you've invited them. What did you ask these people there, what plan and programme did you do, who, who authorized you to say those questions? And on the specific subjects of Mrs Lepić and Mr Borenović, I never told ourselves that it was illegally appointed, because there is a business opportunity to name the commission, I have said in the procedural actions, as much as I have this moment of information, and you have talked about it yourself, you have worked against the law. So, you're talking about the corrupt actions you're going to make in the report, so whether it's the court and the prosecutors or whether it's the Commission or this Parliament, is it me, the judge, the prosecutor. And on the other hand, I will remind you that HDZ, I think even the only party, I will apologize to that if he convinces me otherwise, in the last six years he has been a political entity who has been against the report of all reports submitted in the Parliamentary Assembly, means, the Court, the Justice, the VSTV, was the only political entity who has voted against over and over again. So we've always warned the last six years that something's wrong, that something's wrong. However, many who are today and in the Committee, who are being followed by judges and prosecutors, then supported these reports, for their known reasons, many who are now sitting in this... and their representatives. So, I don't see the reasons and ways to do this, about the commission's work we'll probably talk about when their report comes. I don't think there's any reason, and you haven't convinced us anything other than that the minister didn't respond, I guess at the end of this session he'll have a reason and a way to say his own, your position on all this, that that's not the reason for starting his shift. Many of the reasons Mr Adil Osmanović has said here, that we have voted several times on all of this and that no conditions have been met for this moment, the parliamentary majority has problems, that I spoke about it in the last session, I hope and said one sentence and then, that perhaps the previous session has gone in the right direction, that indeed the parliamentary majority will take over that government, take over, or rule this country. So, she has been invited, of course, and she is responsible together with the Council of Ministers, but also that we will find ways to resolve the issues, although we have not been Parliament for a year, nor the Council of Ministers has worked, so she has been missed, would not return, but of course we will not support this, this proposal, nor this initiative, so we hope to show ourselves again that we are the parliamentary majority, that we are responsible, but also that we will seek solutions to all the issues that are currently in front of this parlament and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9350	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9351	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Lovrinović has just announced something that is completely contrary to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Mr Lovrinović said he hoped that Minister 34 Grubeša would present his position after the debate. Article 157 states clearly that the motionor has the right and duty at the House session to explain the proposal for a vote of no confidence or reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, which I did, and then says the Council of Ministers has the right to respond and state its position after which the debate is opened. Mr. Grubeša can't make his point without you closing the debate first. So, if Mr. Grubeša considers it necessary to state his position, then it is subject to discussion, and I really ask that Article 157(2) be applied consistently here if he intended to, I think it is quite right for the minister to give the opportunity, but it cannot be closed, and then it is only to be declared. The debate will continue after his presentation, Article 157(2) is very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9352	You have abused, at this point you have not called, so there has been no injury, we have not come to this situation, just to warn you as an agent, that the Rules of Procedure is interpreted by someone else. Thank you very much for understanding. Correction of the wrong quote Branislav Borenović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9353	So here I had to react, my colleague Lovrinović said it like we're torturing people there, believe Mr Lovrinović that you should ask both judges and prosecutors who have mostly asked themselves to come and talk to parliamentarians, if they felt the need, and as a matter of fact, I think there were over 50 people from different spheres, to say, public life and most of them came forward and said, we want to tell you how we see the situation and how we see solutions. You are indeed exaggerating and you have had the opportunity to be even part of this Interim Investigation Commission, we have been waiting for you in line with Parliament's conclusion of that 2019, to submit within a period of seven days a proposal from your MP's club for participation in the work of the Interim Research Commission and I am sorry that you do not participate in the work of the Interim Investigation Commission, because in that case surely, I am sure you would not have such qualifications that do not stand, which do not really stand. You would have the opportunity to hear, and I hope that you will read the report, which will be stenographically available to all of you, and to see what the public officials have said primarily when it comes to justice, about what it is necessary to do, and then you will be able to look at the whole picture in a completely different way and that it can come to some conclusions and therefore I ask you not to go out with something that doesn't stand. A temporary investigative commission, a parliamentary body has done its job seriously, held 25, 26 sessions, talked to many people and there have been very, very important findings that will help you too, in making an adequate decision when the report is here at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9354	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegations. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9355	I thank the Honorable Chairman. counterpart Lovrinović said he hoped that the existing majority in Parliament would finally begin to rule this country. So you, colleague Lovrinović, already rule this country, is your Council of Ministers, your ministers and you rule this country. You should have said that you expect your rule to finally have the results of ruling this country and that's a real finding. And as for the benefits of government, you use them, it's obvious to everyone, and most obviously to all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9356	The chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9357	Thank you very much, fellow deputy. Here, I have listened carefully to what is on our agenda about the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, in particular in the case of the replacement of the Minister of Justice, Mr Josip Grubeša. When we look at the initiating, meaning, voting on the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers in terms of this shift, there is procedureally a proposal for a number of MPs, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, in accordance with the same and found themselves at a session of the agenda in accordance with, meaning, with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. If we look at the material, which everyone here has been talking about today, on which the request for a shift is based, then it is clear that it is based on the conclusion adopted by a group of MPs who call themselves the Interim Investigation Commission. I will also remind, although it has been debated through all of this, that the Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives has precisely defined the formation and appointment of committees from how many members count, to the proportionate representation of clubs, from entity representation, to the representation of constitutive peoples and leaderships, and also in the commissions themselves. Let each one draw a conclusion and a lesson for himself, and in particular see whether this conclusion to which this Committee has approached and formed has legal basis and in what law to work on the competent or on matters for which they have appointed themselves competent. So, once again, I'm going to underline, no matter how much it bothers anyone or the ears, that this commission is formed and established in accordance with, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and thanks to all of us, I'm going to remind us, of some sort of reserve coalition, I don't know what to call it, so that we've adopted a conclusion at our House session, which is, most recently, the haired individual provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so that someone would probably get room for some kind of story or a microphone for pulsism, and perhaps some other things, participation in the commission, and others that I don't dare to say or enter at this point, because I don't really know the background. So she would never want to, and when we talked about this at the club level, to participate in the story and to establish the responsibility of someone, if we have no basis for it, or if we are not appointed in accordance with the law. Here, in light of everything on the agenda today, we have a request for the replacement of the minister, and as a reasonable reason, it states that his non-disclosure on a given term, I don't know the testimony, as it should have been, in front of a group of MPs, because, yes, someone has concluded that the minister of justice is doing a bad job or not doing his job well. In order not to be misunderstood here today, we are all political representatives, including the Minister, or the Council of 36 ministers, and I hope that no one argues that we should or should not legitimately discuss the work of the Council of Ministers and individual ministers and deputies, or that we can all say together, because we have already had a better debate on the reconstructions of individual ministers, deputies and the whole Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers can work or should work better, etc. but for such a debate, as one of his colleagues said, a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, whose, of course, component and material of certain ministries, means reports on the work of each ministry, which is regularly submitted to this House and which we are discussing. What we see from this debate today is that, of course, it's not the case, it's the same as in previous homes, I'm going to be taken freely for the situation, because I followed, today I saw that some are being used, but here we are not, we said that, all today is keeping the agenda through this topic, so some have discussed this through the report, the audit reports. If any body manager of the administration is to be held responsible for the audit report, the audit shall submit it to the competent institution which determines responsibility, at least we are gentlemen, we can point it out here through political responsibility, etc. that there are failures to follow or make any progress, a step forward, as the distinguished colleague says, to send an example to others of how laws should be respected and harmonised, or to respect institutions, but this is not the case here. So, the only case, if we want to say, that BiH should function, what our relationship should be with it, and according to its institutions, in this case and the Council of Ministers and in this distinguished House, is that we respect both the Constitution and the laws that we have passed and the laws we have to have constitutional basis until we say or change the existing BiH Constitution. I'm sure, I'll conclude, this Council of Ministers, including some ministers, and this one, must have room to work more and better, but I'm just surprised that someone is based on their work because of the disrespect or failure of the minister to attend a certain investigative committee at a meeting. I ask all of you here – what role does the minister play when it comes to the judiciary? It is, among other things, the Head of the Authority of Administration or the Authority of the Administration and part of the Executive Authority as a member of the Council of Ministers and plays the same role in accordance with those powers that the Ministry of Justice has in terms of proposing to the Council of Ministers and means ultimately, together with us, the adoption of certain laws when it comes to the area of justice. The judiciary of the ministers has no jurisdiction, even when it comes to judicial administration, has an obligation to propose in the budget here in this House that brings budgetary resources. So, once again, I haven't had a chance in some way today, but I publicly thank you here, I welcome the minister, no matter how much anyone talks about his competence or incompetence, to really stick to the powers he has both as the head of the government and as a member of the executive government, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that only in accordance with these powers everything else, means that he can answer as well as everyone else and submit political responsibility and here any change of this minister or anyone else can be under number one and exclusively political, and no responsibility can be determined on this issue here today. Thank you very much. Petty Officer Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9358	Thank you, Chairman. You see, you can only talk about the commission formed by the House of Representatives in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, You and everyone else can only talk about the Interim Investigation Commission of the House of Representatives, not a group of MPs calling themselves. You do not respect the laws, nor the Rules of Procedure, and thus the Constitution of this country, because the Rules of Procedure are an integral part of the BiH Constitution, the establishment of the Rules of Procedure is prescribed by the Constitution of BiH. Now you see something, when you're already 37 talking about how any commission has been established, whether it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. The Rules of Procedure of Article 30 clearly states that all commissions are necessarily composed of 2/3 members from the Federation and 1/3 from Republika Srpska and we took the greatest possible effort to respect and respect, up to 8 members – 3 from Republika Srpska, 5 from the Federation. The Rules of Procedure say temporary commissions may have up to nine members. Now you see, when it comes to temporary commissions, it is currently working in this House or has recently completed its work by five temporary committees whose appointment, or composition, has not been fulfilled by Article 30(2), or this entity obligation. You have a commission for the Interim Commission to appoint a director of the Personal Data Protection Agency three from the Federation, three from the RS, half of them. Will you challenge the legality of the appointment of the Director of the Agency? The Commission, temporary, for the appointment of the auditor-general and not all in favour of Republika Srpska, here is the Commission's appointment Five from the Federation, one from the RS. [[speaker is appropriate on time]] Office for Discussing Appeals Three from the Federation from the RS, Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency three from the Federation, three from [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm looking for a break for 15 minutes on behalf of the club. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9359	I'm taking a break from 15 minutes, at the request of the Club Our Party. So, I'll see you at 3:30, but here I propose to my colleagues, since it's 3:00, let's take a break for lunch, so I'll see you here at 4:00. [[PAUZA]] Honorable MPs and MPs continue with the session, we have a quorum. Representative Branislav Borenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome the MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9361	Thank you. You know I rarely report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I really felt the need to react to Article 79. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives concerning measures in the event of non-compliance with work or Rules of Procedure, item (5), under non-compliance with the order, shall mean the insult of Members and other present. The Honorable Chairman, you know well that personally and myself, but also the largest number of colleagues trying to hold in this House a certain code of conduct and rules, you have in your address mentioned several times there some MPs, there some group, some group, as if we are some outlaws, as if we do not belong to this Parliament. Believe me, I personally saw it as an insult. We are MPs with equal rights and obligations, who, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, are carrying out our parliamentary obligation and eight MPs have been perfectly legitimate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, received the opportunity to, in accordance with the Interim Investigation Commission, as Parliament has decided, do its job and we are certainly not some or some group, as you have done, and I expect that, if anything else, you will apologize to us, because I think it is not good, especially if we choose words and if in a completely cultural way we treat all 38 other colleagues. I did not expect you to treat MPs who come from certain political parties this way, and I sincerely hope that it will not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9362	Here, I find that you have misused a business provision, if you had to say it, so you had to say it in a different way, the business provision regarding the work of this House has not been injured. I'm staying with all the allegations presented in the debate. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure was reported by Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9363	Thank you. The chairman, according to Article 83(2), you were obliged to give me a word to explain the request for a break, so here's what I'm going to do. So, I asked for a break because you were hitting the bell while I was taking data on all the commissions that Dom appointed without respecting the clear provision of the Rules of Procedure on even entity representation, so at one point I thought something was incorrect with my data. During the break, however, I re-checked everything and, according to official data from the Parliament Secretariat, this House violated the entity ratio of as many as five commissions, the Commission for the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, the Commission for the appointment of the Director-General, the Committee for....
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9364	I warn the MP not to correct the wrong allegations, but to violate the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9365	I'm discussing a break. You've been obliged to give it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9366	That's right, you got the words now and you said you had the right to explain the reasons you asked for your break.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9367	So here's an explanation, if you can just let me finish the explanation, the Board of Appeals, the Commission for the appointment of the Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Commission for Designation
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9368	I warn you one more time, you have another warning, don't let us go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please explain the reasons for asking for a break. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9369	Well, I'm explaining the break, I just told you, so I've been consulting with this data, and now I'm showing that data. What don't you understand about this argument?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9370	No, there's no need to explain some of the data specifically related to the debate here, I'm taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9371	Ah, so in your opinion, there's no need for me to explain, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9372	I take your word for it, because you've misused the business order. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9373	The Honorable Chairman, thank you very much. I will speak very briefly on behalf of the SNSD Club a few words on the agenda point, therefore, on the request for the replacement of Mr Grubeša, Minister of Justice in the Council of Ministers. So, the SNSD treats this initiative in a way and if I'm sorry, in a way to first assess who it came from, and of course the reasons. I'm sorry that I'm going to have to talk at this point about the work of this committee, the ad hoc, which is established in accordance, is established in the House of Representatives, but this has nothing to do with any personal, no name, no person who participates in this work, in the work of that commission, but I think it's really when you look at the whole picture and the importance of the judiciary and the total and all of our constitutional organization, etc. It is, however, an unserious story that had some idea that she was dealing with too serious or serious issues about what kind of justice is. So, I'm sorry that some of the senders with their capacity have enabled exactly what we see today, a good microphone to the opposition or opposition parties, who, of course, have come, I think, handyly, welcome have a great microphone here in the House of Representatives of Parliament through which they speak and here... and I will say out loud what we all know and at the end of all these stories, hearings or already as they call it all, of course they won't do anything. Why won't they do anything? Because they're not, it's not possible as you think, to fix a system like this, a system this messy or a system that's basically set up like this, that's what SNSD warns you straight, so here I think 11 years hard. So, it's a judicial system that's hybridly contained in this country, which we all know is perfectly unfounded in mind and we think that what you tried to do and stage in that emergency session, called in the summer of 2019... it was my question -- did it really take you nine, ten years to figure out how the judiciary in this country didn't work out? At what speed you process the information, if you were to understand for nine years that the judiciary is not right, that it does not produce adequate results that should go towards ensuring the legal certainty of citizens, businesses and, in general, this, establishing appropriate relations in this country, of course, in the capacity in which it is, this, set up in the constitutional and legal system. 40 So, we feel that, again, with all due respect personally... to certain members of this committee, I have no doubt even in good faith, that all the effect of this work, unfortunately, is very likely or almost certain without some perspective for some success. Therefore, so we... determine, having in mind the overall effect and work of this commission, and according to this request, we will not, of course, support it, because we believe that the reform of the judicial system and the improvement, the real improvement of the systems must be complete. You can't imagine that it's incomprehensible for me that you've allowed yourself to, on the basis of some, any stories and any hearings and whatever, whoever comes to you there to say something, that you've imagined that there's a reform going on. I find that incomprehensible, believe me, colleagues. So, the reform of the judicial system, in our opinion, should return to the place where it is, these are the ministries of justice, these are the corresponding parliamentary capacities in the relevant representative bodies in the same levels where they are, and above all, real political will. Without it and without wanting to systematically approach this problem to make it a matter of, to really be based on constitutional principles, on the real foundations, not to be the fruit of someone's or some kind of experiment, we as SNSD are not ready to participate in this. Any, here's the story and this, here was the most like story, whether VSTS, I don't believe, personally, in any body in this country that only needs to control itself, so it's going to be to that extent independent and autagulatingly minded that it's going to be able to actually produce some, I don't know, independent prosecutors, independent, I don't believe, I have the right to don't believe, we've had a lot of it in the past, I don't believe in any, personal solution if the person A, if it's a person B, so she's going to be maybe the best, I don't believe. I believe in control, I believe in supervision, I believe in setting up responsibilities, obligations and responsibilities where it should belong, and that in the context of the judiciary requires a much broader reform than this, forgive the expression, the gamery, which you're putting here as many as I see 26 sessions, with all due respect, personally, to your certain wishes and desires. Accordingly, we will not support, of course, the change of justice, because it will not solve anything as such a shift, and we will very much support it if someone in this country really wants to work on a real reform of the judiciary, but fully and removing everything that in the practice of this failed experiment called the reform of the judiciary in BiH has proved to be radical, naharad and counterproductive to the legal protection and security of citizens and all of us who live here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9374	Thank you, counselor. Representative Dragan Mektić's hearing, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9375	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I think that you, as chairman, need to change your behavior, You have begun to roar here at us, You have raised a very, very sharp tone towards some MPs here and we have come, as far as you are concerned, in a certain phase of the Drial and this is going to the session today from the very beginning of this session. First of all, I had some discomfort in proposing a part of the agenda, where you challenged me, even though in Article 72. The Rules of Procedure say that each MP has the right to propose amendments, supplement the agenda and that the House will declare itself in accordance with the order submitted, the proposals submitted. But here's the thing, I don't know maybe you have some private issues, but somehow you have to try to leave it out of this house, I don't want to, before 41 of all, and I don't let you use that tone of voice, shouting, threatening to address us here as MPs. I, when it comes to this investigative committee, cannot understand certain things, that this House and this Parliament vote one such polling committee or committee, which is not unusual in parliamentary life at all, I don't mean here in BiH, but outside BiH, and that, as I see here, it is disputed, and especially you have challenged, there are some people, some group, there some rogue group or something like that. As far as I know, legally, a legitimate initiative has been put in place to form this one group, that we have received the necessary majority in this House and as far as I am concerned, that you have signed that decision, I am not exactly sure now, and we have all received a decision in which these members are founded and individually stated. So what do you want from us now? What's the problem, what's the problem? But since this House has long since lost any dignity, since this has become one unserious too bad, I am also allowing myself to behave in accordance with all of this, to be insecure, to be irresponsible, and as we are now provoked, especially from this downstairs pay phone, to be so provoked. I think you're scared and you're scared of the information this Commission has come to. Mrs. Snežana, let me say, this is not the Commission in charge of judicial reform, nor are we in this Commission dealing with judicial reform, nor do we have to deal with it, let it deal with whoever thinks he's in charge, we have a structural dialogue that started in 2011, so we saw where he came from, etc. It is our role to determine the state of justice, which is wrong, to see what anomalies are, what are these problems, why the judiciary is not functional, why there is no rule of law, the rule of law in this country, and why we all fail because of it and there is no us, we are not a serious state, we are not a state except that we have the Constitution and on paper, in fact we are not a state, we do not function like that. And I think the key problem is that we have come to shocking knowledge through the work of this Commission. Gentlemen, and we've come to these shocking findings by giving us key judicial system anomalies through the hearings by judicial officials, therefore, judges and prosecutors. So you're going to be fraternizing, so you're going to be shocked when you hear some things about what's going on in the judiciary and in the justice system, and here's just one example to show you, I don't need to ebolize you, you're going to get a report. Judge of the Court, the Court of Justice of Brcko Mr. Nedeljko Tabaković says, you know that there is a CMS system that determines and assigns cases to individual judges, says the President of the Court when he gets one case sensitive that needs to be solved as he imagined, calls IT technicians and excludes everything and one judge from the system, leaves only that similar judge and after two minutes, when he assigns the case to his similar judge, include, return all judges to the system. And there are worse things than that, you have worse things in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which won't use CMS systems at all, it won't, it won't, it won't, it doesn't, it doesn't use, it randomly assigns cases to similar prosecutors. That's why we have a case, let's say, that some people have their own prosecutor, like, The director of the Osmanagić Intelligence and Security Agency has four investigations, all four led by Oleg Čavka. And yes, you want me to list more people who are running a single prosecutor's investigation, and why, they won't apply the CMS system and I think you've somehow come to know about it and that now it's a mess, the hook is what happens now, how when it all comes out. However, we have all of this, and the anomalies that the judges and prosecutors have told us, delivered the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, and that, my dear MPs, is going to be very difficult to stop right now and for as long as you want things. And we are not engaged, Snježana, in reforming the judiciary, but in these anomalies as possible, without telling you that, let's say, in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, first job, so someone in the legal career is being appointed prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, although it is said that the BiH prosecutor must have at least five years of experience as the holder of the BiH judicial office. And we didn't think of Minister Grubeš, or force 42 to reform, or ask him to deal with the justice system, or the Court and the tužilaštvo's Office, but we thought that as a resolute minister, he would tell us why there is no new VSTV law, when all of this is a single prosecutor, all of the judges said that the key to the VSTV Law was the key, and that I don't keep counting what they said was necessary. VSTV to be done, etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Yeah. Give Minister Grubeša the key, the life problem is the new Law on VSTV [[the speaker is warned on time]] Well, I knew, I knew that you were dealing, I don't know, I don't know, and you have to somehow try to leave it out of this parliamentary hall and let it go, you're the first among equal and nothing more here [[the speaker is warned on time]] Take the right here to harass the MPs. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9376	I'm warning you, time's up. Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9377	Thank you very much. I have to admit that there was really a lot of things to hear at this point, and what Col. Mektić was saying, as a directly interested party, because at the same time, he's on the investigative committee and accused of hearing as in the investigative commission and every view of mine and yours is absolutely personal. I saw a very decent discussion of Mr. Begić, the incredible insults of Mr. Helez, whom you did not warn, the targeting of the figure of Republika Srpska's official, unnecessarily ugly words. And what we need to be objective about has Parliament, of course, the right to form any investigative committee, as well as how good or correct we will judge later, but here's to be honest, even in the American Constitution and in American practice, even when a Supreme Court judge asks for his impeachment, Congress is a prosecutor, and the Senate is a judge, so there can be that in America, and there has to be a concret thing, a particular problem that someone has committed a criminal act, a suspicion, and that Parliament would be dealing with that, uh, this. And we here have a hack that has nothing to do with an individual case or imagine if in this America, which is a lot of examples, to tell us, the functioning of the Constitution and the judiciary, if an MP who sues or a congressman who sues a judge would have told him that someone from the Mexican or Chinese embassy, would it be a story of sovereignty or just delegating your own institutions that you represent. Now, let's, uh, go to the end in this paradox, say, let's now invite those three foreign judges in the Constitutional Court, so let's say, as an MP, I ask the judge of Macedonia -- how did she vote that January 9th is problematic as a religious holiday in Republika Srpska, and not Ilindan is problematic in Macedonia, in her country where Ilindan is a national and religious holiday? We can do a lot of paradoxes to point out here, but we need to know that Parliament has to have something concrete to catch up on, so that we can discuss it, and that we don't have people directly interested in our cases or political harangs being used, let's be honest, for direct marketing purposes, because we won't fix anything with what we've been up to today, talking about everything and everything, there's nothing to do with it, by the way, by mentioning many words of unworthy MPs, etc. And what, if you didn't think I was saying this as someone belonging to the establishment, I'd blame my fellow SDA MPs, that's that kind of honesty in the ruling coalition. We're constantly flirting and we're playing a game around the CEC and then you're pulling on, we're from the opposition, not us, but the SDA, and then you're rushing to delegate members of the CEC who are supposed to be elected to the ruling coalition, and then you from one entity, from Republika Srpska, choose members of the CEC that belong to our opposition, and leave it to the SDA to have members of the CEC who are... and we do everything in this Parliament. 43 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Uh, no, it's an absolute topic for those who know something, understand, and who doesn't know that throws it away. It is also judicial and the CEC is an institution that judges. You, Mr. Mektić, first learn not to win. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9379	I warn MPs not to earn and not to interfere with other advocates who have words. Here you go, Agent Stevandić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9380	And I once told you to secure order, to warn people like Zukan Helez about insulting needlessly, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9381	I apologize, there's a lot of times here and you don't hear, you know, I'm trying to make you hear me, but here's if someone has to tell me from closer, sometimes I don't hear what someone said, I apologize in advance. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9382	Okay, that's why Mektić's yelling, we hear him. So, to be honest, let's not play any games, the government takes the burden and goes with it amongst the people and see if he stays in power or loses the election. The opposition is looking for better solutions, better people, offering what it thinks it should and is also fighting and then we are in this Parliament. We don't have it here, and then we're all surprised, there's going to be the next item of the agenda, so you'll see what it's like, and then we're all surprised what's happening to us, it's not good for this judge, it's not good for the CEC, it's not good for that. So we here need to function what is power as power to negotiate, not to bribe one another, and that's the fact that the opposition has seen it well multiple times. But you gentlemen are also drawn into all this and you are in that mud, if it's up to your knees, and you are up to your knees. So, all of us here carry some kind of responsibility, power to the council, opposition to the smaller, and what we lack, we lack honesty so that, behold, four hours of marketing and demagogy and politics, instead of having a nice arrangement somewhere before this meeting. Well, that's what I think you should say.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9383	Thank you very much. Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MP. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9384	My guilty allegations refer to Mr. Stevandić's discussion. You, Mr. Stevandić, have gone completely astray in this matter and this matter, and I've been throwing this away because this has no longer become a serious home and what does anybody here do and how they want? So you mention the Senate case and American practice, which are authorized to investigate individual cases, so you mentioned asking that judge at the Macedonian Constitutional Court, why he voted, when it comes to January 9th, is not Ilindan etc. No, we don't, you didn't give us the authority to deal with specific cases, we can't touch the independence and autonomy of prosecutors, so let's give it to us, expand our powers and we'll do it. But, Mr. Stevandić, you realize that in 2019, there was only one charge of high corruption for a year of 370, 80 prosecutors in BiH, so just tell me if it's normal. If it's normal, then it'll be okay for me too, everything's cool, let's go push, we don't need anything, but you got our people confused, you started talking about individual, specific cases. We must not deal with, nor deal with any problem, we deal with anomalies, lack of law, abuse of laws that have not defined certain things enough, etc. etc. That's why I'm telling you, you've gone astray and spending your time hasn't done any good here.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9385	Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9386	My esteemed colleague, Mektiću, does not justify ignorance, I said that in other parliaments and in the Senate, you can call for responsibility and judges, even the Supreme Court, when it comes to the case where he broke something, then the Senate is a judge, and Congress is a prosecutor. As far as you're concerned, you're an interested person, you've confused the defendant's bench that you're sitting on because of the very corruption that has made you the indictment and the parliamentary bench where you'd be investigating these prosecutors and judges who are leading the proceedings, that's the problem, that's the problem, that's what's messed up, that's what doesn't make any sense, that's what destroys the dignity and justice and this Parliament. You can try to be some kind of star to attack people, target people, I won't, I'll respect you as an MP, I won't insult you, you have the right to do what you do, don't insult others and talk, I spend my time the way I deserve, as my constituents have given me the right and represent the interests of those who have chosen me here, without insulting you or any other colleague. And what the paradox is is that you're representing yourself as the star of this process, as a star of that, to say, the reformer wave in the judiciary, and at the same time you're on the defendant's bench and you're supposed to be judging those people who need to judge you, that's the paradox, that's what's messed up. I didn't want to tell you anything ugly, and I didn't deserve you to treat me like this and insult me and my personality and the time I spend and the people I belong to, it's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9387	Thank you. Aido Baruči's representative, non-compliance with the established agenda, please welcome the MPs. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9388	These discussions are far away from our agenda point, that is – Considering the requirements for the replacement of Mr. Grubeša. So I ask you to stick to the agenda and end this way of communication and discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9389	Just to warn the esteemed representative, this wasn't a debate, these were corrections of false allegations, where people referred to the views that were presented during the debate, so of course it comes to this. Each of the MPs is invited and I call once again for the debates to be in line with the Rules of Procedure and with the adherence to the agenda, if everyone is going to take care of it and be someone who will be invited whether it is the establishment of the agenda, it will not bring us anywhere, and in particular affect the dignity of this House, so I call on everyone to contribute to the protection of the dignity and respect of this high House. Thank you very much. Representative Dragan Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9390	In part, you are correcting the wrong quote and the second part of Nenad Stevandić. When you talk about the dignity of this House, there is no dignity. No, we're the one, as you said down by the pay phone, one group, one group that once malts empty straw and result, which is the result of all this, our nothing, one big nothing, every day getting worse and worse, etc. etc. I don't want to talk about it. Here, I don't want to talk about it. Stavandić, you've gone further astray, you say - that I judge the system, judge the prosecutors and judges, and I'm on the defendant's bench, that's what you said. We're not judging anyone, you can't understand, I don't know what the problem is, I don't believe you can't understand that, probably somewhere else the problem has, uh, you can't understand we want to see what the problems in the system are, in the system. And since you're saying that I'm on the defendant's bench, I was just telling you, not to use that CMS system in the D.A., so one person, the same prosecutor four times. I've got eight investigations, all of them, I've got my prosecutor, one female prosecutor and I'm lying down with her and I'm getting up, woman... So wait, man, is it normal for you to be one prosecutor only in charge of me in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? So eight cases, so watch out for my degree which, five years, I '89. graduated from Zagreb, still subject to investigation. You. and that [[the speaker is warned on time]] Just one more sentence, that's what it is, that I'm eight. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You are also directly to blame, because you control the judiciary, which is the problem that there is political control over the judiciary and the judiciary has fallen under political control. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9391	Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9392	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In this correction of the wrong allegation, I will really look back at several violations of the MPs, that is, on several occasions, when indeed Mr. Mektić in a very inappropriate way violated 46 directly Rules of Procedure 79 and you insinuating certain things. I know you're in an awkward situation when you have to do it as chairman, but somehow you in the College have to find a way to protect yourself from these inappropriate outbursts. I'm going to započeću this one of my own, so now the second part of correcting the wrong quote, I'm actually going to agree with Mr. Mektić, when he says this hasn't become, that this has become an unserious home. I would agree with you here, Mr. Mektić, and I think he became really unserious when he allowed a person, for example, your performances and quality to become a minister of security, so come on and an MP, that's what the people chose, and then at one point the MP and minister, amazing. As far as these problems are concerned, you say the problems are in the system. Well, there are no problems in the system, the system is the problem as it is set, but now that you've come into the combination a little bit, so when it's more obvious when you're too, let's say, clear clues, you've left your actions, so when you're a little bit of an object of the same system, well, then of course it's no good. Secondly, having the right problems, I mean it, you did it yourself, please nice, and other things you do and what you catch, is not that you don't know. So, in part I agree, you really lose this House of Ascension, even in this part when, when you've chosen to be right here, there are some people you're dealing with, please nice, this, by determining the problem, and you say here you're spilling it. Well, sir, uh, for five years, you've been acting as Minister of Security, and now you've found out, is that, from someone out there, this one, that the CMS system is no good, so everyone lives in this country knows. But again, it's not a problem that something is now part of that system is wrong, it's not a good system of this judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9393	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić, correction of the wrong allegation, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9394	Well, I, colleague Mektić, want you to be freed where you're not guilty, that would be normal for the judiciary, you know. But I also ask you not to insult people and not to speak for women prosecutors, not to use that prefix of women, because it offends women. You act like you're in a bar, whatever you think you're talking about. You said here that you were getting up and lying with some prosecutor, that's a context that cannot allow yourself to be allowed by a MP and someone who was a minister, not in the bar, not in Parliament. We lose our dignity because people like you insult, use inappropriate, inappropriate vocabulary, so we lose our dignity, and I will lose him arguing with you. I am truly sorry to be arguing with you, but I wish you good health, but take it easy, don't do it in Parliament, it doesn't make any sense. You have needlessly offended me five, six times, and I forgive you by appreciating your situation, but you have offended all women and you are talking about prosecutors as someone you lie down and win, and that doesn't make any sense, it's not, it's not even for cafes, let alone for Parliament. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I'm saying that a prefix of a woman is used in such a context, ask any association, and they'll tell you it's an insult, but I understand that you may not understand it. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9396	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Since he didn't want to at first, but here I see there's no Council of Ministers, does the minister of justice want to talk? Here you are, Minister of Justice Josip Grubeša.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9397	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Members of the College, the Honorable Representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I listened carefully to the discussions of respected MPs, of course the applicant for my shift, which gave reasons for the justification of the initiative, as well as discussions of other MPs in which some other tones and other points of view could be heard. All in all, pro et counter, as should be parliamentary democracy, to certain inappropriate discreditions and unhindered impatiences on my account, which, from earlier on, have been sent from certain positions in this high House, I have no intention of commenting, but finally, you should become aware that such rhetoric degrades the dignity and reputation of this House, and it speaks more of them and their ethics and the perception of the capacity of representation, than of me and my knowledge and skills. In any modern parliamentary democracy, such an initiative is a legitimate act, which gives the possibility to re-examine efficiency and thus the responsibility of the executive body. In such a discourse, and I am looking at this initiative, so I cannot help but think that, apart from its unquestioned legal justification, there are some serious and credible indicators that would at least justify it. As one of the crucial reasons for launching this procedure is my alleged failure to call the investigative commission. It is simply not true, because it is easy and unambiguously from the written correspondence of my Office with the service in Parliament that the real truth can be established, which is that I was prevented from responding to that call at the scheduled time and reasonably expected a new term of the investigative commission. It seems that it did not suit someone and that the plans and intentions were quite different. An unskilled and ill-recorded set of scenarios on which they are on a quick-handed basis and almost immediately from the investigative commission to the media, false information about my failure to give up. Speaking of the investigative committee, the established ad hoc for the investigation of the situation in the judiciary, I cannot help but notice that there are no members of the Croatian people in the same area, which is different from the constitutional and other legal and sublegal principles of equality and representation, but also the obligations arising from the same. Why does that answer have to be sought by the creators of this and this kind of policy? Is it possible that the Rules of Procedure of this High House was not respected when this commission was formed? Maybe it was all part of the planned scenario and you calculate media hacks, you have to ask the question, but there's a frightful fear, that such illegal precedents are trying to introduce some new practice and create quasi-legals that can be worked on and decided without one constitutive people. Is this the first step in evicting Hrvat from the body of government, life and ultimately decision-making within BiH? However, since these are questions from this wax home's resources, he would only remain on this note. Calling me responsible for the state of justice is pure demagogy, and if I didn't consider professional portfolio some of the signatories of the initiative, I'd think it was a 48 elemental ignorance of things that regulate this area. This is mere populism, which is presented to the public with the intention of entertaining such and similar performances to the public and thus putting some of the more important and life-threatening topics on the other side of the agenda. For the sake of the public, I will briefly state that the powers of the Justice Ministry and myself as ministers in this context and that is why it is clear that this is one in a series of previously seen plays constructed from some Sarajevo cafes. The Parliamentary Assembly adopted reform laws, which completely separate the judiciary from the executive government, unlike different solutions in the countries of the region and Europe, and thus the Ministry of Justice cannot be seen as an institution of justice. When we talk about the situation in the judiciary, I am not aware that the commission we are talking about has made or asked the judicial institutions to provide them with an analysis of the situation in the judiciary through the display of the number of cases, the age of the cases from the moment of formation until the end, of course for completed, or the status of the case and the reasons why it is not finished, if something is not finished. The minister of justice has no jurisdiction to seek such an analysis, but based on that analysis alone, he could give his own judgment whether I consider the work of the judiciary adequate. The absence of any responsibility for the work and functioning of the judiciary also proves that the regulations even conditioned that the BiH Ministry of Justice cannot independently propose amendments to laws regulating the work of the judiciary without consulting with the VSTV. The Ministry of Justice whose head I am and in these complex times burdened and difficult working conditions, the conditioned pandemic COVID-19 has been working and working to draft legal acts out of its jurisdiction, regardless of the challenges this situation has put forward. During the course of the pandemic 2020, the Parliamentary Assembly discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in the Judicial and Prosecutorial Institutions, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Infringements is still in the procedure of the Proposed Law on Temporary Measures in the work of BiH's judicial and other orangans during the natural or other incidents in the territory of BiH established on the Council of Ministers at the beginning of the pandemic and until which the Parliamentary Assembly today did not adopt. In addition, in 2020 it was finally put into office as a state prison after four years since the beginning of works and many obstacles, and the reconstruction of the BiH Prosecutor's Office building was completed. This is a clear indication that the objections put forward at the expense of my unemployment or the BiH Ministry of Justice are not in place, because regardless of the epidemic and measures to prevent the spread of the infection, we have done and prepared regulations, not to say other things we have done since online meetings, preparation of strategies and action plans. Only the Council of Ministers held 22 regular and 40 extraordinary sessions during 2020. Finally, he would point out that the speed in lawmaking is contrary to and vice versa with its quality and conductivity. We are a country with a number of legislation, which has proved to be not very good, and that is why we are learning more about past mistakes and working on the preparation of legal projects, we leave it to experts in some real time, and the legislative authority will have the opportunity to consider them and declare them. It is evident that there is no real indication of the absence of quality in my work, regardless of which of the arguments you put into context and truly look at what the Ministry of Justice did in 2020, but also years ago, except for the mere introduction of my professional titles, without honestly talking about my achievements and abilities. I think this year, if this year had been able to start talking about more important topics, and I certainly don't think that the show where I'm being pushed as a major actor, without anyone from the ruling majority writing the scripts, is worth the attention and watching. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9398	Thank you very much, Minister. Here's because we've concluded the debate, but here's the esteemed representative, Dženan Đonlagić, came forward, he didn't even participate through the replicas, so here you go, dear representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9399	I thank the chairman. So no one in the O.R. has heard that you've concluded the debate, I don't know why you're potentialing it. So you couldn't conclude the debate before the Secretary-General's address, so the debate is not yet closed. After addressing the Secretary-General, where there was one boast in tone and way of addressing and using inappropriate concepts, I will say only two, that this proposal is made out of Sarajevo cafes, so-called, eviction of Hrvat, etc. On behalf of the DF Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break for further consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9400	I'm taking a 15-minute break. So now it's 17:10 I'll see you here at 5:30 at the latest. [[PAUZA]] Honorable MPs and MPs, I invite you to take your seats and proceed with the work of this House. I would like to invite Agent Đonlagić to explain the reasons for the request for a break. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9402	So I have already said this in my proposal for a break because of the necessary additional consultations after I heard the presentation and discussion of Minister Grubeša, who used very arrogant and unequivocal tones and cited two examples, two illustrations – Sarajevo cafes and the eviction of Hrvat. I think it was very inappropriate, unnecessary, reckless. In BiH, there are very nice and beautiful places, as he says the bar, and Sarajevo really has special makeup and spirit and are a really nice place, and in the meantime, we jumped to a couple of Sarajevo cafes to see what and how.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9403	Thank you. Representative Mira Pekić, debate. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9404	Thank you. Well, here's what I want to say to you all at the beginning. I didn't answer for a word for all this time while my colleagues were reporting for both the word and the correcting of the wrong quote and the replica, I kept my mouth shut, is I really known as someone who has a fat nerve and listens and learns? What we are, and thank Mr. Đonlagić for these 15 minutes, so it's enough to add up a little bit, say, and not leave this exhibit for the end, it's not good that we finally hear you as Minister of the Council of Ministers in this House of Representatives. A completely inadmissible way, you have addressed us MPs in a completely unacceptable way, chosen by the people in BiH, me in Republika Srpska, and chosen by your political party, but regardless you are Minister of the Council of Ministers, you are also my minister and I want to observe you until this moment, until you, until you have come out for this speaker, I have watched. I believe that everything we, members of the Interim Investigation Commission, have the right to say, to write and to seek, we can rightly transfer to this House of Representatives and to seek you and the Council of Ministers. The Interim Investigation Commission is not some Pere Kvržice company or I don't know, some virtual organization, it's the Interim Investigation Commission and it's about determining the situation in the judiciary and you know what the trigger was for this Commission, for this Commission to start working, we all know, I don't have to talk, it's too late. But I think I'll end up with that, too, and I won't be long, you said we weren't worth the attention or the watching, this initiative of ours, at the end of the day when you were finishing. I'm sorry, I think every word we say here is worth the attention and every word has its own weight and all the reasons that my colleagues listed aren't even all the members of the Interim Investigation Commission, everyone has some reason why they're not satisfied with the work of the Minister's Council of Justice, even in this last conversation, I call it conversations, not hearings, it's not even close to hearings as it's interpreted, it's conversations with all the relevant factors in the judiciary. We called from Mr. Branko Perić, to Mr., I don't know, Milan Blagojević, members of the VSTS, etc. And I think that if you're done with us not being worth the attention, and not even watching, no matter how this is over, don't ever use it again according to, I pray you, you're a young man, don't use it to the MPs, I was even glad, here, when my colleague Krišto slightly raised her voice on fellow Mektić, so sometimes we need a little higher voice, here, to make a joke, to some, but you're completely inadmissible to the MPs, and the reason is something that we have the right to do. Please do not address yourself in the future, we have the right to comment on the work, we have the right to ask, Yours is, you are the executive authority, it is yours to do what is asked of you, what the law and the Constitution provide for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9405	Thank you very much. Predrag Kožul, a correction to the wrong assumption, but before I know it, I say, here's a comment on the MP's position, I haven't raised anyone's voice, I speak quite enough to be heard by representatives as someone who runs this session, nothing more. Thank you very much. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations, here you go, MP. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9406	Well, I'd like to say that when we speak in this room that we're consistent, that we're not a little bit hypocritical. So here all day in this debate there has been an insult, to various addresses and to the address of the minister we are discussing today. So, without intending to be a lawyer or to justify anything, I have to warn you, and it would be good if we were always equally sensitive to all the inappropriate and inappropriate words in this room, and I see that, uh, this kind of reaction came to an end after this last address.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9407	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And now I call on you, in accordance with Article 158 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, to immediately declare and vote on a proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, the replacement of BiH Justice Minister Josip Grubeša. Of the 32 present – for 14, against 17.1 abstention. There's no general majority. I agree that we did not accept the proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers and that there was no change in the justice minister, Mr. Josip Grubeša. There were no other proposals during this debate, so we concluded point 3. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. A request by a representative from the Club of Representatives of the SDA to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01-02-1-489/21 of 24. 2. 2021. The bill of law you've come up with with a request for an emergency procedure you've received. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Agent Alma Čolo, out-of-town MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9409	Thank you, Chairman. The SDA Club has proposed this Act by emergency procedure, as the conditions laid down in Article 133 have been met. The Rules of Procedure, that it is a high degree of urgency, and the Law is also formulated in a simple way. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the fulfilment of both conditions cumulatively, but in this case both conditions are met, so we suggest that the law goes according to an emergency procedure. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9410	Thank you. I saw, did Agent Magazinović give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9411	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9412	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9413	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9414	That's right. So no more reports. Now I ask you to make a statement, or we vote on an emergency procedure request. Of the 32 present – for 29, no objection, abstention 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted that the proposal for a law on public procurement is being considered by an urgent procedure. I am now opening a debate on the proposal for a law on public procurement, which was adopted by an emergency procedure. Representative Saša Magazinović debate, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9415	Very briefly, this is a necessary amendment to the law and everything we have so far heard from the Council of Ministers Chairman, I quote - I am told that I do not need to change the laws. To get a direct drug requires obvious. I am sorry that this does not come from the Council of Ministers, Mrs. Bisera Turković, who comes from the party that proposed this, these amendments to the Law, is the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers and would seem much more serious as a state that this, this process is managed by the Council of Ministers. They obviously have an agenda of their own, and it's okay to propose it by the MPs, although it's a completely different situation than it was meant to be. I'm encouraged, too, but that's the next item of the agenda I'm going to talk about, because yesterday the government, which includes, of course, the SDA Parliament Club, forgot to amend the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which one without another will not open the possibility of procurement. But if we adopt these two laws today and if they are confirmed by the House of Peoples, then I think that Parliament for who knows which time did the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9416	I don't see any more reports. Representative Predrag Kojović, later, would you like to? Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9417	I thank the chairman. I just wanted to, if possible from the SDA Club to get, as I would say, one explanation. A meeting was held a few hours ago in the BiH presidency building, I would say, the leader, top executive heads from both entities and the Council of Ministers, including members of the presidency, as the top authority. At that meeting, Mr. Džaferović of the SDA, a member of the BiH presidency, asked, "Is it necessary to amend some laws in order to enable the import and purchase of vaccines?" And at that meeting, so, the top executive chiefs, he was told he didn't need to, you can read that statement in the media as well. In addition to opening countless questions, whether the people who run this country know the laws to lead them by, say they should not be changed, and the SDA's representative club in the state parliament knows and thinks differently or this statement by Mr Džaferović is incorrect and the people who were in the presidency building do not know what the SDA Club in the state parliament knows. Well, I'd just like to be explained whether we should change the laws, because some people from the same party at the highest office say we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9418	Thank you, Agent Kojović. Let me remind you, we are currently having a debate on the urgency of this bill's proposal, so here are the honourable MPs to abide by, so, the Rules of Procedure. Advocacy Alma Čolo's debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9419	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9420	Yeah, that's right, that's good, that's good. Sorry, now we have a debate like this, Nenad Stevandić. It's Alma Čolo, but it's second in line, so. Nenad Stevandić, here's your word, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9421	Thank you very much. Well, it's a very interesting thing is that, what Kojović said. Unfortunately, it is true that both medicines can be imported even if the law changes and if it does not change. I'll read you, I've been doing this good month, uh, and I'm not going to say I'm an expert, but what I'm saying is in small letters and marks I've studied all the possibilities. Therefore, the Member of the 66th Competent Entity Ministry and the Department of Health of the Brcko District may authorise imports of medicinal products which have not been authorised to place the medicinal product on the market in the following cases: the hotly needed imports of limited quantities of medicinal products which do not have marketing authorisation, which are necessary for the protection of the health of the population on a proposal from a health institution, so any hospital could. And seven, an extremely prescribed... position (3) of this member – if the Council of Ministers of BiH declares an emergency on the joint proposal of the entity health ministries and the Department of Health of the Brcko District, the Agency may authorise imports of medicines which have not been authorised to be placed on the market, if such medicines are necessary for the prevention or removal of the consequences of such a situation. 54 On the basis of these members, there is only one thing left unclear, why the Federal Ministry of Health did not act the same as the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska and obtained a vaccine on the same principle, because we have, without amending the law, and Republika Srpska has, in BiH, obtained vaccines under article 66, which provides for an exemption, to say, intervention and emergency imports. That 38th article I told you about, and thank you for supporting it from another time, it's going to be the word again, it's been used in this case and maybe tomorrow if Astrazenek, uh, approves a piece of us, let's say, through his reserves, and we're going to have to do that article again. So it's possible, uh, and there's also Mr. Tegelti, who said he didn't have to change to make the import of medicines, because there's concrete evidence the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska gave permission to emergency supplies and vaccines were already imported, and that we haven't changed the law, these are facts. Now, if I hadn't forced her to go to jail this morning, I'd be at an extended college, where you've been, in agreement with this amendment of the law, so that someone wouldn't say that we're either, uh, inciting obstruction or that we're opposed to speeding up, I'm in favour of speeding up, which is why I've talked about Article 38 before. So it doesn't really need to change the law to import vaccines, if we have, to say, a credible importer, etc. etc. What is really a problem, that there are many, many things out here that are both legal and human and all that is happening in the EU, is the shame of the EU, not just us who have put up with it now. Here I will take this opportunity to talk about these problems at the next point, to say that today, also at this meeting, which you have listed, is the accepted donation of Serbia, offered by Mr. Vučić, of 5,000 doses for health workers in the Federation, I think that should also be noted and thanked. We're this first segment that we, uh, vaccinate health workers with what I've been telling you about, which DHL distributed to, brought to, what's called, Sarajevo Airport, and I have to tell you that there are really these problems in the cold chain that were related to the information that that's why Fajzer canceled, but that they don't have, therefore, a standoff in the decision to deny BiH vaccines, whether they're Faisers or some others, because all assumptions have been fulfilled. Our problem is that everyone wants to make money, I'll tell you that DHL invoiced 32,000 marks for these initial 2,000 vaccines, or thousands of doses that landed at the Sarajevo Airport in Moscow. It's a shame of both these companies and European solidarity, so everyone's trying to fit in here, to make money, and if Republika Srpska is working with DHL right now, this transport would come up at 6,400,000 marks for 400,000 doses, and we've come up with it differently, so we'll have trucks with this cold chain and... to open up in Banja Luka, where it comes in, so we've found ways. I'm only telling you this because someone has to work on it, so the Department of Health of the Federal or the Brcko District has to deal with it, someone has to know how a guarantee will be given. The Federation was late for about six, seven days in the wake of those guarantee funds for Kovaks, but that wasn't the reason, either, because the funds were later accepted, and don't let me because Kovaks really did a dishonest job and later continued to do it with the story that Fajzer isn't giving us because we in our territory don't have cold land insurance, which is false. We are treated as someone who is not capable enough to find friends, to find money, to find companies, which many other countries have done, and we are here somewhere in line with Montenegro, Albania or I don't know that. So, unfortunately, it's the reality that we live in and how others observe us. Fortunately in Republika Srpska, there were some friendships, which were used and thanked both to these people and to Duško Perović in Moscow, who is a representative of Republika Srpska, I would not be angry if anyone were a representative, I don't know, of Republika Srpska in Britain or I told my colleague Zvizdić today, that he was some of his bilateral earlier acquaintances. The airmen were first, let's say, vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine from May to the seventh month, and that we had some contact maybe we could get something out of Emirat. So everyone could have turned on, and it's the fact that 55 of us are fighting about it and going into this spiral of demagogy. I repeat, it could have been obtained without this Law, but I will vote for this Law, because I don't want anyone to think that anything I want to contribute to slow down this process, or that, in that way, it makes it more passable. If Bog does, we'll be a month late as BiH, as an entity... which is a month and twenty-sixth, on the seventh month we'll pass those about 20% of the population, however it is, but don't let this be another reason to bleed around here, it's really a loss objectively for a month, but we're not here alone guilty and objectively treated very badly, and it's a European shame, because Europe won't go well if we don't vaccinate. The immune image of Europe cannot be without BiH, it can't be without Montenegro, so it must be complete, so it can't be done by segment, this one. This is what I wanted to tell you that it can do without the law, but it has to work on this problem, because even when we adopt this law, if it's not working on this problem, there will be no vaccine again.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9422	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo, here on the monitor stands the third, not that it was just a moment ago under an emergency request, now go ahead and discuss the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9423	So I would like to answer this question our club has assessed that it would be good in the Public Procurement Act to provide for a special provision that will prescribe an exemption from public procurement procedures for the purchase of immunisation funds, especially in the event of an emergency or severe accident or there is a risk of rapid spread of infectious disease. So we would remove all possible dilemmas, and the Public Procurement Act is a law that was passed in 2014 and did not foresee such a situation, we have proposed such a provision that will create space and relax the real fear that exists for those who need to obtain immunisation funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9424	Thank you very much, counsellors. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. A request by a representative from the Club of Representatives of the SDA to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number 01-02-1-4987/21 of 25. 2. 2021. The motion for a bill with an urgent request for consideration was received today. I'm opening an emergency hearing. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. 56 Please state our request for an emergency procedure. Of the 33 present – for 30, there is no, abstention 3.. I konstatirati that we have a general and entity majority and that we have adopted a request that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices be considered by an urgent procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Representative Nermin Nikšić's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9426	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief, so I'm glad that we are and that we are at least trying to unblock this process and I'm sorry that we haven't been able to do this before, and that regardless of all these purchases that my colleague Stevandić was talking about, somehow we look like we're relying on someone's sadness, so we depend on the gift, honor for what was obtained, even though these are minimal quantities. I'm glad the Council of Ministers is trying or at least we're trying to drag him into doing that coordination, that co-ordination job and making it possible to get vaccines for the citizens. And I would ask the promoter to reconsider, taught by this experience which, this one, the snakes bit and the lizard is afraid, not to come back into the situation that, like the respirators were getting us companies dealing with the production of raspberries and the tourist community, that through, we might be able to specify this last sentence a little bit. So – That the Agency can obtain means of immunisation and treatment of infectious diseases through direct contractual relations with the drug manufacturer, and that it can import into BiH via and through co-operation with legal persons who have obtained a marketing authorisation from the Agency. You know that srebren raspberries are also authorised, when the respirators have already arrived, so instead of "getting the license", we say "which are already registered for the purchase of medicines" to avoid any possibility that tomorrow someone will register for drug trafficking again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9427	Thank you very much. Representative Adil Osmanović's hearing, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9428	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that there is one general mood to amend and supplement these two laws, the Law on Public Procurement, to amend the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, comes to the understanding of all the MPs here in the PSBiH House of Representatives. This Law, the amendments to the law should not be seen from either position or opposition, nor from the position of one entity, another entity or canton, only how to catch up with other countries that are one step ahead of us, to enable the institutions of the BiH state and entity governments to directly obtain vaccines from producers, which in many ways would facilitate and speed up procurement procedures, and make this much more transparent. All countries, including the EU, certainly when they met with the pandemic, came to change the legislation, and this is what BiH does. We have some assurances that even with the existing Public Procurement Act, certain things could have been done, but 57 here, as I said, we fully facilitate direct contacts of the Council of Ministers, entity, cantonal governments with vaccine producers and I am pleased to observe these proposals in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9429	Thank you, counsel. To correct the wrong allegations, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9430	Thank you. You see, I don't think that what Mr. Kojović asked, he was left behind, and given that Mr. Džaferović, who has been here as chairman of the Constitutional Commission for many years, we have media reports from this meeting in the Bureau today, where he says – Džaferović suggested that the urgent changes to the laws be made if it is necessary for the vaccines to arrive, however, it was said that this should not be done. Now you see here, so one dissonance between what the Bosniak member of the presidency is saying, which, I say, was already here chairing the Constitutional Commission and what the SDA Club is offering. Eventually, if you need a break to bring it together, but I think this requires an answer, not only deserves an answer, it requires an answer. Because if Mr. Džaferović has these visions, this comes to the Council of Ministers tomorrow and they say he shouldn't, just agree, come out with a concrete view of the MPs on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9431	Representative Saša Magazinović debate, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9432	As in the previous law, therefore, the same comments, with what my colleague from the Nikšić club said, I think that within the technical correction that is permitted, is whether, in this emergency procedure, these two words can be corrected and that is certainly something that will be acceptable to us. If we adopt today, and here are all the intensities that we will, these two laws, then I think that I will be free to say it without, what counterpart Osmanović says, the emphasis of the position and the opposition, who put pressure on it, who wrote the solution, that Parliament, and also by adopting those initiatives by colleagues Zvizdić really showed a much greater seriousness than the executive authority, which, unfortunately, is not something we should boast about, but I do need to stress it. If we adopt these two laws, then we question the justification of the session on Saturday, which should have led us to get a solution to what we should do, so we can talk about it, whether at this point it is still necessary and what would have been the result of that session, if we had already adopted the amendments to these laws today.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9433	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo's debate, please welcome MPs. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9434	Thank you very much. We really didn't know at the club yesterday when we proposed that a member of the Bureau would, if, declare what he said today and all that said that he was the President of the Constitutional Commission, but we have assessed here and we are autonomous in our work and we are assessing, based on the rights that we received when we were elected to this Parliament, that we can propose a measure-specific legislative solution. So we agreed to propose this legal solution, which will strictly relate to the current situation in which we are, to obtain the means to immunise from infectious diseases and medicines concerning infectious diseases as soon as possible, so that the law provides for both public procurement and medicinal products and medical means a explicit provision that will enable it. What Mr. Nikšić was saying, we changed, here, Mr. Adil is in charge of explaining this Law, but he missed to explain, we changed this provision a little bit, I don't know which provision they received, which law was given to MPs after this morning's College or this session he had, we changed this, in the end it stands – which of the Agency obtained a license for the marketing of medicines, and meet legal and sublegal conditions for transport, storage and distribution of medicines, or immunisation funds. This is a little bit complemented in the end, I think it's in the context of what you're saying, but the MPs, I think, should get this corrected text, so there wouldn't be any misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9435	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9436	Thank you very much. I see that we have nothing of dissonant tones now, that it is really something that we should strive for, and what Mrs. Čolo said, with Mrs. Bursać and Mr. Adil Osmanović alone after the first text of the law, that is, we have agreed to avoid a new company that has nothing to do with medicine, and imports, to add exactly this last sentence – to meet legal and sublegal conditions for transport, storage and distribution of medicines, or immunisation funds. Which will say that it has the ability to transport, if it had a cold chain, that these drugs could distribute, which some larger and more limited drugs might, in that variant would exclude purse-fat firms or any possibility of manipulation. I think it's really correct now, and thank you, I say, and Mrs. Bursać and Mr. Osmanović, we got this from our friends who understand it and we all had an understanding and to say we agreed. There is another problem here, one potential danger, which I received later, so I will pray to Mr. Osmanović, who is on behalf of the promoter, did not get it in time to react as with this attitude. So it is stated here – that under the authority of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the consent of the Agency can obtain funds for immunisation and treatment of infectious diseases through direct contractual relations. 59 If that, God Bog, applies to Article 87. The law on public procurement prescribes that a direct agreement can only buy goods up to six thousand marks. So this part would give us a problem or we'd ignore it to throw it out directly... and I think that, uh, I'm saying maybe we should focus on it now, because this other thing is really impeccable. Therefore, Article 87(3) of the Public Procurement Act must be changed in that variant and in this Act, or we should only change here, to say two words, because it is prescribed that a direct agreement can conclude up to the amount of six thousand marks, that is, the law, that is, Article 87. And that's the only technical problem, it's not essential, that we should agree on, I think it's very easy, but here's what I'm saying, I consider myself an acquaintance of this matter, and that's why I want to suggest this. We could have a problem here, and here I have it in writing, if anyone's interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9437	Thank you very much. I understand, although we're on the next agenda right now, but I see you've brought into context, uh, with this law. We have a correction to the false allegations of Predrag Kožul, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9438	Well, here's the clean help for, what my colleague Stevandić says would really be so that if we didn't adopt what we did at the previous point, and that's the exception of this procurement from the Public Procurement Act, so I think this, this fearsome time, has been analyzed. If I've got it right before, change of law on a preliminary point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9439	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo, correction of the wrong allegations, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9440	Well, it's not a classic correction to the wrong assumption, I would like to comment in the same way as Mr. Kožul, if we adopt the previous Law on the Completion of the Public Procurement Act, we exempt this procurement from the Public Procurement Act and then it is not covered by that provision concerning the direct agreement and the limitation of the value class for the conclusion of the direct agreement. So Mr. Kožul is right, I don't think there's anything to change here on the assumption that we're going to vote for the previous law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9441	Thank you, colleague. Representative Safet Softić debate, here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9442	First of all, to welcome all those present in the hall, I am pleased that we have a very high degree of consensus on what we are discussing today, and at the same time I am sorry that this is one of the necessary things for BiH and its citizens we are corrupting stories about what Mr Džaferović said today or did not say in front of the Presidency, etc. And to call on news reports, which are really just ruining this good ambience, which is happening in the O.R. right now. In fact, we had, uh, a debate on point 4 of the proposal for a law on public procurement by emergency procedure, and now it is up to the Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means, so I propose, in relation to these two points, one conclusion which would be put to the vote during the vote, and he says: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to propose a law on the completion of the Law on Public Procurement and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means to be considered by an urgent procedure, because the proposals for a high degree of urgency and formulated are in a simple way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9443	Thank you, counsel. At this point, and Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9444	I didn't know any other way to answer it, regardless of all the tensions that we've had at the SDP Club, we're looking forward to discussing one law in this way, and we're obviously going to make a contribution to speed up the supply of vaccines. I am now going back to what we concluded today, which is calling a session, where we said that we would, in line with the conclusions that arise from today's debate, talk further. With that in mind, I'd ask for a five-minute break, not to leave the O.R., but if we could get in this same tone to approach you in college, club chiefs, and figure out if we still need that session, or if we need another conclusion about it. So, just five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9445	It can, but later when we get there
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9446	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9447	Yeah, but it doesn't matter here, we don't vote in.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9448	To suggest a conclusion within this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9449	But next, when we get to the point of which the topic is about, through
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9450	That's this one, that's the point. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9451	So I know what you're saying that they're connected.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9452	Okay, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9453	I was actually thinking when we get to point 13, if you agree, MP, because when we get to that point, you can, uh, we can consult here, and let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9454	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9455	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9456	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9457	Yes, thank you very much. So I don't see any more reports. I am concluding the debate under point 5. Before we move to point six, in accordance with point (f) of Article 27, I shall limit the duration of the debate to all remaining points of 5 minutes. We're crossing, so on point six, Ad. Six. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The activities of BiH institutions in ensuring radiation and nuclear security", applicant: BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01,01/4-16-1-2550/20 of 31. 12. 2020. The responsible Committee for Finance and Budgets delivered its opinion, the Report was adopted and addressed to the follow-up procedure. The commission proposed that the House adopt the following conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers and the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH to report within three months to the PSBiH House of Representatives on the planned and undertaken activities to implement the Report's recommendations on the implementation of the impact review on the subject – the activities of the BiH institutions to provide radiation and nuclear security, and to get to know the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. 62 I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: ‘Presumptions of effective management of interventions in the event of accidental pollution of the sea’, applicant: Office for the Review of BiH institutions, issue: 01,01/4-16-1-255320 of 31. 12. 2020.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9460	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't know anything about the pollution of the sea, i.e. I know as well as any ordinary citizen, is it, when we look at oil spills or any other pollution, but I've reported on the discussion on this report, or on this impact review, just because I'm really illustrating the Council of Ministers' negativity, for who knows which time, because here when we discussed the agenda of Minister Grubeša's shift, there were discussions here in the sense that we have these reports, so when the reports are on the agenda they should be discussed etc. Unfortunately, the report on the audit carried out or the report on the review of the impact few people read, we see that it is rarely reported, and I'm just going to give a few examples. In fact, we as a state have not signed all the necessary international agreements, and we don't make commitments from them, we don't meet our obligations. So it is clear that, even when signing these international agreements, countries must prepare for incident pollution and develop and reflect their capacities and resources to act in emergency situations. We are so prepared that even at Neum, we do not have a maritime crossing, that this maritime crossing does not satisfy the minimum necessary for, at all, a maritime crossing, and especially, therefore, we do not have all the resources needed in the event of some incident situations. So what I'm saying is, again and again, this is exactly the non-cooperation of our ministries with each other and here I'm just going to give examples that in this report, there are three checkpoints in the case of these situations, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, communication and transport, the Ministry of Security, and then suddenly there's this fourth checkpoint of the Border Police, and nobody knows how it happened and who named that checkpoint. Also, he regularly attends meetings of certain groups of internationals, so this is about this one 63 international mechanism for the Mediterranean Sea, it's based in Malta, it probably would have been traveling, here's if it wasn't a cove, but it can't be. But what really broke me in the end is exactly how our ministries don't cooperate. So we have a plan, we should actually have a plan to protect and rescue in the event of incident situations and the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Trogovy and Economic Relations, says there is no capacity to do so. So, we have an army of civil servants, we keep pulling ourselves out of capacity, and then the Department of Security says here we'll help you, if the ministry asks for help, then this ministry never asks for help, and so we don't make any commitments under these international agreements. So that's how our ministries cooperate and really act like one ministry in Mars, and the other in Venus, and I just wanted to point out as an example of non-cooperation within the Council of Ministers, because here are the reports that we really need to discuss where this poor work of the Council of Ministers is illustrated, and here I see not many interested, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9461	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić's debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9462	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This impact review on the topic – The assumptions for effective management of interventions in the event of accidental pollution of the sea shows in fact what is the haughty and reckless attitude of the BiH authorities and competent institutions towards the sea as a public and general good BiH. I would like to remind you that BiH is a maritime state, a coastal state, and that it has its maritime good. BiH has more than 14km2 of sea area and a seashore of more than 24km. Taking into account the fact that all rights must belong to the BiH state, I would like to stress that the inadmissible negligence and negligent relationship between the relevant ministries and BiH institutions towards the sea as a general and public good, so I believe that this impact review has been done very detailedly, professionally, professionally, and that it has included all segments necessary for the implementation of the international obligations of BiH as a maritime state. This impact review points to the obligations of BiH under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and very directly determines the competent ministries of the BiH state that must change their relationship to our maritime good, and finally launch processes to protect and preserve the marine environment. The BiH institutions' audit office found in this report that BiH institutions did not provide for the establishment of a legal framework for the intervention system. Also, the Audit Office found that BiH has ratified only one international agreement in this area as a maritime state, while three agreements have not yet ratified. Furthermore, the Office for Audit found that BiH institutions did not provide for the establishment of a comprehensive coordination mechanism for all actors in BiH on the issue of establishing an intervention system, and no intervention plan was adopted in the event of sea pollution incidents. The general conclusion of the Audit Office is that BiH institutions are not prepared to respond to maritime accidents that may result in oil or other dangerous substances being poured into the sea. This irresponsible and reckless relationship between the BiH government and the sea as public and general is unsustainable, and therefore it is an obligation for all of us to change the same. I fully support all the conclusions and recommendations of the Office for Audit under points 4 and 5 of this Report, which I am not going to analyse in detail, but I sincerely hope that the relevant ministries, to whom they are addressed, will access the implementation of the recommendations. In order to protect BiH's sovereign rights at sea, I am taking the opportunity to remind myself that this respected dom at its 51st session, held on 07 and 13 September 2017, adopted Declaration 64, which states in point 1 that BiH is a maritime country, which has its own territorial sea, and remains a corresponding right in accordance with its status, and according to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which in particular refers to a completely free and unfettered approach, a merger or a connection of the territorial sea of BiH to international waters or open sea, in which no safe passage regime is applied, as well as to the regime of transit, but also applies the free navigation and communication regime, as well as in international waters for all types of vessels, flying and laying submarine cables. In this regard, I propose a conclusion that galls: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the implementation of point 4 for the first regular session of the House of Representatives. Declaration, which called on the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia, that is, the EU to protect BiH's sovereign rights at sea, the adoption of a special law on the sea of BiH and initiate legal proceedings before international judicial cases, information on all the activities and events launched in connection with the implementation of the acts of the BiH Council of Ministers' Declaration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9463	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9464	Well, I, Madam Chairman, have noticed that those who are a little taller and don't get up, I guess you can see them when they're sitting, and I have to get up to see me when I'm little, so don't mind me getting up and taking my time. But I wanted to go to both of these points, so I chose this second one, when it comes to this impact review, I was talking about the way this audit office works in the past term. So in both of these reports on the impact of the work audits, in my opinion, it came out of their frames, I was saying it last time, even I asked the agency, who answered me in such a way that they had the right, but when you look at this impact report, so they're talking about things that question whether they're competent to speak. Therefore, they are invited under Articles 16, 13 and 14 to firstly revise institutions as a whole or partly as regards the availability of public funds, and here what they provide finds and recommendations, so we need to see this, we need to improve this, so I am not sure whether they are capable of assessing what is needed by Agnecija for radiation or I don't know here about this other agency, so to take measures to effectively do their work, and nowhere do they look at the financial resources they spend, let's say, in their work whether they spend it properly or not, or not at all. I have nothing but to say today that this is okay that we have received a report, even if it is about the problems that Mr Emrić spoke about, but probably for the next time, when the report on the effectiveness of the work of an institution, I will ask the agency to prove to me whether she was able to make such recommendations, where you have no marks, no financial items, have anything, therefore, which is their primary task. Has the BiH institution had the public funds properly and as prescribed in their acts or acts adopted by this Parliament, but here it is something completely different and as if they are taking the right to work in these areas of efficiency on behalf of those 65 we have appointed, which we have formed, agencies, Parliament, Council of Ministers, etc. So, it's not bad, let's be warned, but this isn't their job, so I didn't find anywhere here at least, which Mr. Emrić would say, no one reads, I read a little something where, for example, they abused some financial resources, where they wrongly spent, where, I don't know, they didn't effectively follow the spending of the funds, they don't have, but they're talking about something that, in my opinion, isn't their job. But here, today, I have no other suggestion about it, but I would like the agency to hear me, if not the next time there is such a topic I will be very specific and I will ask, therefore, that they submit to me a report of effectiveness on the basis of Articles 16, 13 and 14 and therefore do not take the powers and work of some other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9465	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2020, issue: 05/1-50-15-190/21 of 21. 1. 2021, and Plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2021, issue: 05/1-50-15-189/21 of 21. 1. 2021. The House College has appointed a Joint Defence and Security Commission to consider this Report and the Plan, the responsible committee has delivered its opinion, the Committee has not adopted the Report or the Work Plan. I'm opening a debate on the report and the Work Plan. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2020, issue: 05/2-50-15-356/21 of 9. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9468	Thank you, Chairman. In the report pariode, the Citizens' Appeals Committee received 161 complaints concerning the work of police officers in police agencies at BiH level, of which 131 complaints were filed against border police officers. The reasons for appeal to the work of border police officers are often inappropriate communication, abuse of position, impertinent and unprofessional behaviour, as well as reports of corrupt action. When we talk about reports of corrupt activity, a large number of these reports could not have been confirmed or rejected because there was not enough evidence to do so. As video surveillance was used as evidence in these investigations, the Committee on Appeals of Citizens reiterated the need to establish a functional video surveillance system at all border crossings, in order to reduce the potential of corrupting police officers to the minimum possible extent, and to which the Committee referred to its conclusions in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 and 2019, and here today and in 2020, I think of the Report. I therefore propose the conclusion: To require the Ministry of Security to prepare within 30 days a plan to establish a functional system, information and a plan to establish a functional video surveillance system at all border crossings.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9469	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposed by MP Mirko Šarović, who reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has asked the BiH Council of Ministers to provide the House with detailed information within seven days on the reasons for which Bosnia and Herzegovina lost the status of the preferential state in the export of goods to the United States and from 1 January must pay full customs duty, and the measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Council of BiH to keep Bosnia and Herzegovina involved in the mechanism (GSP) of beneficiary countries that enables them to improve exports and production through customs relief, with the need to meet certain criteria when it comes to origin", No 01-50-1514/21 of 25. 2. 2021. We put this item in today's session of the House. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 67 We move to point 11. Ad. 11. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2020, issue: 05/3-37-4-355/21 of 9. 2. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9474	Thank you, Chairman. So you see, when I wrote an explanation for this part of the agenda, I wanted to be extremely picturesque, and as much as I tried, I couldn't get a picture of how much today's debate that we have here in the House, which in the media showed how much trouble we have. So here's to 68 paraphrasing Club SDA says it is necessary to amend the laws, a Bosniak member of the presidency says it is not necessary to amend the laws, Mr Stevandić says it is true both. So this very vividly describes what in this, the proposal to include this item of the agenda and this request for an emergency session stands, which is that the public in BiH, both the general public and the professional public, is exposed to completely different conflicting information on this extremely important topic and as long as we do not receive vaccines in BiH, and for this very reason we believe it is necessary that the Director of the Public Procurement Agency and the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH should attend the next emergency session of the Representative's House, which is already scheduled for Saturday. As part of this agenda, I'm going to offer a set of conclusions, now I'm going to read them. So the proposal for a conclusion, four total: 1. The Director of the Public Procurement Agency and the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH should attend the next emergency session of the House of Representatives. 2. The above-mentioned directors should present comprehensive information in oral and written form on the following issues: - Does the current legal framework allow direct procurement of vaccines against coronaryvirus by the Council of Ministers, entity and/or cantonal governments directly from manufacturers of these vaccines? - If it allows, what specific steps of one or more of these organs should be taken to obtain the vaccine directly from the manufacturer, unless it allows all the specific ways in which one or more of these organs can obtain these vaccines, to specify in detail all the necessary steps, procedures and the like? - Also, if it does not allow, is it possible, through changes to one or both laws, to create conditions for the purchase of vaccines directly from the manufacturer, and if legal changes are necessary to provide detailed information on the specific necessary changes, including the draft? 3. Those drivers should present detailed information on all the rules and conditions to be met in order to receive any donations from foreign governments, international organisations, domestic or shit natural or legal persons and other donors from one or more levels of government. 4. Those directors should be prepared to answer any specific questions of the Members concerned at the meeting. We've heard some in the towers talk that if these two laws, proposed by the SDA Club from, which we're going to vote for not to be any confusion, if they adopt that there's no need for these conclusions, there's no need to hear from the directors, there's no need for this session on Saturday. But you forget, everyone, that besides this House of Representatives there is a House of Peoples, these laws, if they pass today in the House of Representatives, will almost certainly not be found next week at the House of Peoples, the holiday is Monday, the Days of Independence, and the earliest when they can be found in the House of Peoples is about 10 March, if and then. The bill proposed by the SDA makes it clear that they will enter into force 8 days from the day of publication. So, in one of the most ideal scenarios that this is found at the House of Nations on March 10th, to go through an emergency procedure, it's only published on Friday, we know when the Official Messenger comes out, this can't take effect before March 21st, 22nd at the earliest, but it's the most ideal scenarios, and we know that things don't happen that way in BiH. What I'm afraid of, when he goes to the House of Peoples, there's known who's got the control package, 69 whether he's going to start the store, whether he's going to throw himself into a regular or shortened procedure, whether he's going to adopt himself in a different text, with some point changed, and then go to some coordination committee, and then somebody's going to buy time here, and we're not going to hear the alternative in the meantime. So, if we need to listen to these directors for information, what if, what if he doesn't go through and also what happens until he passes. These two directors should provide this information, because the procurement of vaccines should take place on Monday, and here I have explained why we cannot hope for this to take effect before March 21st. So, let's go to the adoption of these laws, but remember this is being adopted in the House of Representatives, there's a House of Peoples with all these obstacles, we hear at the end of the line, here's some of Mr. Stevandić, and it's true both, whether something will change until the House of Peoples session, whether it will start trade, we can't, we can't let because of the responsibility to the citizens of BiH that we don't have this alternative to hear what these people have to say on Saturday about the current legal framework, which, until this is in effect, is the only legal framework in which These conclusions I've suggested, so I've read, I'm now in writing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9475	Thank you very much. Advocacy Alma Čolo's debate, please welcome MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9476	Thank you, Chairman. For this item of the agenda, we got one page of the text first, and then it was added to us, another 170 pages and I tried to read, and then I saw that there was a copy of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the alleged Law on Public Procurement. When I opened this Law on Public Procurement, he had 95 pages, then I saw that this text was not adequate to the one I wrote the addition of that Law under some previous point and I was afraid, believe me, I came out of this room thinking I made a mistake, because I never saw this zakono. I checked, I don't know where Mr. Arnaut got this text, this text is called the Public Procurement Act, the unofficially purified text, allegedly from 2014. We do not have unofficially purified text, we have the basic text of the 2014 Law and it is not in agreement with this and I really pray that this is not done this way, because we are Members, we are delivered something that needs to be valid, which is published in the Official Messenger of BiH. I have here a Law published in the Official Messenger 39/2014 and this Law does not correspond at all to that which is shared with us. So, here, not to be confused, the legal system in BiH is very complicated and often there are considerations whether something is the way it is in some law, whether it should be changed or not, but I expect from a doctor the right to deliver to lawmakers an official version of the law, a law that is in force, rather than something that has never been adopted in the parliamentary procedure, and besides, it contains 95 sides times 42, how much money, so I would reject the MP from his monthly salary.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9477	Thank you, Agent Čolo. Representative Nikola Lovrinović debate, please welcome MP. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9478	Yes, thank you very much. On the trail of what Mrs. Čolo was saying, if I didn't repeat myself, really, if we were to look at the point under this title today that we put in the agenda, I don't know what we'd have besides this material that we allegedly got, but here's what it's all about, so it would be unnecessary to get into that kind of debate. I'd suggest something else, and that's what I tried to get in line with the SNSD and SDA clubs, so I'd say next. So, Mr. Arnaut, the information and this point today as it's called and what it's going to be called, as it's called for an emergency session, so it's also not going to solve anything, whatever information we get on Saturday and today, without changing the laws and getting what we've done today, so what it's going to contribute, I guess we've talked about it all, faster solving this problem, there's nothing out of it, so that information is not going to solve it, we can get any kind of problems. And I suggest that the conclusions that you have proposed may be related to the conclusions that I will propose on behalf of these three clubs when it comes to our activities further and above all, this session that we have scheduled, or today, for Saturday. Well, please listen to the conclusions, and we can take a break from Mr. Magazinović after this five, six minutes, so let's see, uh, if we agree on that. We suggest a conclusion, so: 1. The House of Representatives tasks the BiH Public Procurement Agency and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH with delivering information within seven days on the necessary conditions, obstacles and all available solutions for emergency procurement of coronary vaccines, which will be discussed at the first regular session of the House of Representatives. Which, I say, may include these conclusions that you suggested. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked by the chairman of the House of Representatives to cancel the 11th emergency session of the House scheduled for Saturday, 27.02.2021, with one item on the agenda – the Information Agency for Public Procurement of BiH and this, as we have addressed, that I am not wasting my time now. So we think that everything we've said in the previous points of those laws would satisfy all our needs, and the agencies would provide us with information within seven days, so we can talk. So, I doubt it, here we are, and let's stay here until tomorrow those agencies can get all the information that you've been looking for, which we're looking for to do and deliver to us and that we're going to have some effective work to do. We suggest, therefore, this on behalf of three clubs, if you're agreeable, if you need to, here, and may take a break, I don't know if this is it or maybe, here, if you insist on taking a break to agree as club heads, I don't mind, but I think this would be satisfactory to end this agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9479	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. 71 I made a note to myself here of Agent Magazinović, so we said, "Here, now it is, you agree, is there a need for or has you agreed at club level, is there a need for a short break? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need, is there? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9482	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9483	And myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9484	It's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but I wanted to say this for Mr. Arnaut, which was suggested by those set of conclusions he's attached to the emergency session, can I rephrase them to tie them to this, to these conclusions that we've proposed, because those are issues that are of interest, they're partly contained in that proposal for the first conclusion, but not all. So, perhaps it could adapt to that first conclusion, so that they come in along with the conclusion that the agencies are manifested by those questions he wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9485	Thanks for the construction. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Considering the Predrag Kožul's parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly tasked the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs in an appropriate manner, in accordance with good diplomatic practice, with an appeal to the Vashem Yad Memorial centre in Jerusalem, to use the official and full name of the state – Bosnia and Herzegovina – instead of the said shortened and incorrect name Bosnia (Bosnia)", issue: 01-50-1-219/21 of 26. 1. 2021. 72 The House College appointed the Committee for Foreign Affairs to consider that parliamentary initiative, the committee responsible delivered its opinion, the Commission accepted the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. A review of Predrag Kožul's parliamentary initiative, "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Security and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to urgently initiate the procedures and take all necessary activities to bring about the signing of a readmission agreement with Afghanistan, Iraq, Bangladesh, Iran, Egypt, Tunis, Alžir and Morocco. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to report on the activities undertaken and their effects on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives no later than 90 days from the day of adoption of this initiative," number: 01-50-1-245/21 of 26. 1. 2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9489	I thank the chairman. Here, I would really ask my colleagues and colleagues to support this initiative, given that both the Commission for Budget and Finance has unanimously supported this, and indeed, here, as the text of the initiative itself says, it is a significant success after 22 years to give support to the success of BiH basketball players and I think it deserves attention to be given and I think that this formulation proposed by the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers of BiH that this success adequately valorises, in fact, gives the opportunity to support this initiative. So no amount has been fixed, let the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers find the possibility to properly valorise this success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9490	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 17. Ad. 17. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative "which is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH to establish the Denis Mrnjavac award in memory of him and all other girls and young victims of violence", issue: 01-50-1-331/21 of 5. 2. 2021. The House College has appointed a Joint Commission on Human Rights to discuss this initiative, the competent commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has adopted a modified initiative asking the BiH Council of Ministers to establish the Denis Mrnjavac award in memory of it and all other girls and young victims of violence. The award would be awarded every year by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees or by the Council of Ministers, depending on the decision of the BiH Council in accordance with the procedure prescribed by it, one student/student of the basics or one student/student of the high school, and all primary and middle schools in BiH could nominate students and pupils who promote tolerance, human and non-violent behaviour. The award should consist of a sculpture or other appropriate subject, a special recognition in the form of a charter, as well as an appropriate recognition for the school of the award-winning student, a student whose all details are prescribed by the BiH Council of Ministers. I am opening a debate on this initiative. Representative Arnaut, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9492	Thank you, Chairman. Today, the game of the case is quite the International Day of Fight against peer violence, and I think it is extremely appropriate that today we are considering this initiative on this very day. I referred her to procedure 05.02. was Friday, the day before the 13th anniversary of the boy's murder, 300 meters from this building, it was pure peer violence, murder from the courtship of a decent boy in 74 trams. The hooligans who attacked him didn't know who he was, or what his name was, he didn't do anything to them, they never saw him at all before in their lives, maybe it bothered them that he was dressed well, maybe it bothered them that he looked decent, we can't know the motives of such beasts. Those hooligans, some of them, as I've been informed, will soon be out of jail, and Denis Mrnjavac, unfortunately, is no longer among us. This initiative urges the BiH Council of Ministers to establish the Denis Mrnjavac award in memory of him and all other girls and young victims of peer violence. I have made very carefully aware of the text of this initiative, making sure that I do not give anyone the reason to claim that there is a transfer of competence or that there is no specific responsibility of the Council of Ministers, making sure that I do not enter the segment of education, knowing that this segment, among other things, is one that at least some of them are particularly sensitive, is it, when it comes to the competences of different institutions, or different levels of government. I was also careful to leave the Council of Ministers here as much freedom as possible to define all the details. So, the initiative clearly says the award would be given every year by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees or by the Council of Ministers, depending on the Council of Ministers' decision and in accordance with the procedure prescribed by one student, one primary and one high school student, and all primary and secondary schools in BiH could nominate students and pupils who promote tolerance, human and non-violent behaviour. The award should consist of a sculpture or other appropriate subject, a special recognition in the form of a charter, as well as an appropriate recognition for the school of the awarded student, which all details are closely prescribed by the Council of Ministers. You will see that the text, which is before you, stands, with one-year scholarships in an appropriate amount. This is on the proposal of my colleague Lazar Prodanović, drawn up on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, he, a colleague of Prodanović, suggested it, and I agreed as a promoter to take out that a scholarship is being granted, it is not here that anyone gets any monetary reward that would certainly be symbolic, but the point is to promote human behavior, promote tolerance, non-violent behaviour and ultimately promote the protection of personal and collective human rights and freedoms. I am saying this deliberately because the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration clearly stipulates that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is competent, quote – for the promotion and protection of personal and collective human rights and freedoms. The jurisdiction is unquestionable, the motive is unquestioned, the effort is also unquestioned and no one here is trying to trick anyone. I really ask you to find the strength to support this, about some things there shouldn't be a dispute, about some things there shouldn't be political considerations, especially when someone is trying to really put everything in the framework of the BiH Constitution and law. After all, this would in no way be a precedent. I have articles here, I will read quickly, given that the debate, the time of the debate is limited, Nović awarded state awards for sport, state awards. The ministry of civil affairs, Dušan Bajević, was awarded a State Prize for Sports. Academic Professor Dejan Milošević and academician Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Mirjanić was awarded the Annual Science Award in BiH. The Council of Ministers, this recently, awarded the Prize for Sports to swimmer Mihajl Čeprkal. The Council of Ministers rewarded the successes of athletes from the last century, the money paid to the BiH Basketball Alliance, judicists Amel Mekić and Mitar Mrdić for a one-time scholarship. The State Volunteering Award, this is from a Council of Ministers session, is the highest recognition awarded by the BiH Department of Justice for Volunteering, etc. etc. We have here information from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, discussed by this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Information on the status and occurrences of peer violence and violence among children in BiH with a proposal for measures, is delivered So, if I may ask you, I have 15 minutes as my promoter, but here, uh, let me just finish. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 75 Therefore, jurisdiction is unquestionable, motive is unquestioned, the human objective is unquestionable. Let us begin to find ourselves around these things, there will be suggestions from other parties, from other entities, from other peoples, all of this is completely irrelevant here, and if we can find ourselves around something, then it's really this and this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9493	Thank you very much. No more logged in on this agenda item. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. The conclusion by which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to apply Article 38 when considering the application for the registration of the vaccine against the virus. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Bosnia and Herzegovina, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 58/08", Proposer: Representative Nenad Stevandić, issue: 01-50-1-15-15-15/20 of 11. 1. 2021. At the previous session in the second round of voting, the House of Representatives decided to put the above mentioned item on the agenda as a committee. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Representative Predrag Kožul's hearing, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9495	Here, of course, we will support this initiative, that is, this conclusion, but here I would just remind, uh, that, at the session, not the past, but the previous in the initiative of my colleague Zvizdić, who was concerned with this topic, we have acted as the HDZ Representatives' Club and the same initiative or the conclusion of our colleague Stevandić in this initiative and adopted it. Since the vaccine and the acquisition of vaccines and all the activities around it are constantly making things worse, we are doing double, of course there is no harm from this conclusion, but fellow Stevandić did not seem to me, as far as I remember he was not present at that time, so here I am informing him and reminding us that we have installed this article in the initiative that we modified, I say, on the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club and adopted us at the previous session. He's working on all the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9496	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Stevandić debate, please welcome MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9497	So I thanked my colleagues Zvizdić earlier and you, because you understood it, and my initiative in the first round didn't go through, and this one, the most important thing is that it was already verified under that law, let's say, the intervention import of Sputnji V vaccines and that tomorrow can also be done with 76 Astrazenek, Fajzer and anything else, until all of this, uh, paperwork around registration is completed, so I can express my satisfaction, because this member is already being used in these urgent procurements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-02-25-0.u9498	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Before we cross over, here we have just reached point 19 and the remaining points are about giving consent to ratify material, here I suggest we unite the vote on points 19 to 27. So please let us be clear. _________(?) It's a debate. [[no microphone turned on]] To discuss, that's right, the debate, the debate, I said to unify the debate at points 19 to 27, including point 27. Please repeat your vote. Of the 30 present – for 28, there are no, abstentions 2. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we have united the debate on points 19 to 27. Points 19 to 27. Ad. 19. - Ad. 27. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, memos and contracts
