ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10406	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I would ask you to take your seats to begin with the 22nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 22nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The absence from the session was justified by representatives: Nada Mladina, Mirko Šarović, Edita Đapo, Nenad Stevandić, Mirsad Kukić, and the delay at the session was announced by representative Predrag Kožul and the absence was justified by representative Predrag Kojović. At this moment, 31 MPs are present, which means that the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, before the debate on the agenda, will be allowed for MPs to ask oral questions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following representatives: Adil Osmanović, on behalf of the SDA Council of Ministers' Club of Representatives, Zukan Helez, BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Branislav Borenović, BiH Council of Ministers' Chairman Damir Arnaut, Denis Zvizdić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Aida Baručija Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Minister of Finance and Treasury. These announcements were made in accordance with Article 168(2) of the Rules of Procedure to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns. I would also like to remind you that direct television and radio transmission of this part of the session has been ensured in accordance with Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Adil Osmanović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10407	Thank you, Chairman. As you have said, my question has been asked by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and we have asked for a written answer to this question, but we have not received it so far, so here we are asking it this way – when will you launch an international lawsuit, that is, the process of revoking an unlawfully and unconstitutionally concluded agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Republika Srpska, which, as a result, had an illegal installation of gas pipelines about 4502m below the Sava River, which represents an internationally recognised border line between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia? According to Article III, the position (1) point (a) of the BiH Constitution, Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy is governed by the BiH presidency, and according to Article III position (2) point (d) of the BiH Constitution, each entity can conclude agreements with states and international organisations with the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In a concrete case, one entity, which does not have international legal subjectivity, concluded an agreement with another country, the Republic of Croatia, with no agreement from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or the BiH presidency, which is responsible for Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. The procedure, detailed by the Law on the conclusion procedure, the enforcement of international agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina, means that the said agreement is unconstitutional and legally invalid and cannot produce any legal consequences. Furthermore, Article 6. The Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts prescribes that each state has the ability to conclude contracts, which required the Republic of Croatia to be aware of the lack of international entity entity Republika Srpska to conclude this legal deal. Therefore, there is an absolute legal basis for Bosnia and Herzegovina to sue the Republic of Croatia in front of international courts for non-compliance with international law and violation of territorial law The countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10408	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10409	Madam Chairman, members of the College, gentlemen of Parliament, media representatives, fellow ministers, allow me to welcome you all to the beginning of today's session. It's going to be obviously high temperature, at least it seems at this point and it's going to be pretty hard to work, hopefully the services can get us a little chilly. As for the answer to this question, first of all, let me say that we have not prepared a written answer because all the competent institutions that need to be part of this response, which was called by Ambassador Osmanović, have not delivered their statement, when it is completed, we will complete the response at the Council of Ministers' session and deliver it in writing. However, by appreciating your need to ask this oral question, I'm going to try to say very briefly some key points about what we are about right now. A gasification protocol related to the Refinery in Brod was signed by the Republika Srpska and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2017. The Council of Ministers' assembly did not take part in this in any way, nor did it have any initiative from any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the agreement. According to the Dayton Agreement, energy is in the jurisdiction of the entity and Republika Srpska within it has its responsibilities clearly. Unfortunately, no gas law has been passed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Energy Community Secretariat in Vienna said there are obstructions in law making, and it specifically indicated that obstructions come from the Federation of BiH. The Regulatory Commission for Energy of Republika Srpska has adopted, agreed on general conditions for natural gas supply to the Rafinery Oil Company in Brod and accordingly under the Gas Act 3 The Regulatory Agency has this approval. The law on the gas of Republika Srpska has been confirmed by relevant and international factors on compliance with relevant directives in the European Union from the so-called "European Union". Third European energy package. When it comes to the position of the other side, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I have received, is, of course, reminding you that it is a member of the EU, believes that the Protocol on gasification is an international act which is not legally binding and has no characteristics of the international contract and which is given institutional support to the private project. This is the information that we have at the moment, we expect, first of all, for all institutions to be declared and to deliver to you here this necessary act. From my perspective, I think the most important thing is to successfully end the gasification of the Refinery in the Ship, to reduce pollution, I have lived and worked in the Ship, and I know what it looked like, to reduce pollution in both ships, and if there are any, any wrong steps in this process to find a way to remove it, that in no way is the subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that the process of termination of the contract is not the best solution and is not in the interest of the refinery in the Ship, nor of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10410	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10411	I am certainly staying in order to deliver a written form answer to this question, I am not satisfied with the answer I received by oral means, of course we do not dispute that private and public companies can sign certain agreements when it comes to gasification, but the realization of the same when it comes to crossing internationally recognised borders with certain cables and projects is unacceptable to do so without this high house and without the BiH Presidency. To make sure that the Federation of BiH or Republika Srpska is on this side, let's say, without any knowledge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or of the President of the Republic of Croatia, it would certainly be far, far more severe, a stronger reaction. Any international agreements and any support, of course, to this implementation and gasification cannot challenge the BiH Constitution under which foreign policy is in the responsibility of the BiH Presidency, and entities this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH must confirm that. [[representative is warned on time]] I expect a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10412	Thank you. I give my word to counsel Zukan Helez. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10413	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. My question has been addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications, and it could have been the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the whole Council of Ministers, and this is about the following – What is the reason why state television, BiH Television or BiH Service, TV BiH do not transfer world sports manifestations of the highest importance, and I am particularly interested in why there is no transmission of our national team? Since we name here, uh, administrative bodies, they management, so it has to do, and many citizens ask me why they can't look at our country, our national team, and why they can't look forward to it, here, like our basketball players, our girls took a great fifth place or these guys in a sitting volleyball and I'm not counting. So I'm curious why we can't watch our national team TV? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10414	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister of Communications and Transport BiH, Mr Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10415	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers. Due to the extremely difficult and complex financial situation in the Public BHRT Sports Programme service BHRT in 2020 has partially met, however, one bad trend, i.e. the reduction in the performance of its commitments in 2021, is much worse and this continues in the coming period. I would now point out and what is probably why your question and the question of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, let's say, you said basketball players, we have a European football championship, citizens, most of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are denied that they can follow it. One reason is because Bosnia and Herzegovina has not adopted a list of important broadcast events. As a competent processor, the ministry prepared a draft decision and, according to the Rules of Procedure, requested the necessary opinions, however, most of these opinions were negative, so that conditions were not met to find the proposal at the Council of Ministers. We need to observe exactly how they are bought at this time of broadcasting rights, first of all, sports events, because the competent houses that sell rights, first of all, is UEFA, related to the European football championship, has announced a tender and it is a competition in which BHRT in this situation cannot participate, it has been given to a media house from which BHRT is unable to buy these rights, and in this way the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been denied. We have an example from the environment, that even much more decorated public services, such as that, for example, Croatian broadcasting failed to get direct rights, but indirectly bought it from United Media for a multimillion euro amount. What I can say as a resolution minister at this time, there are practically two ways in which the Ministry of Communication and Transport will work, which is to adopt a list of important events, in this way can be downloaded and eliminated by the practical domination of these media which are truly more financially powerful, but by taking down this exclusiveity where they have an obligation to cover a particular area, such as the case of decisions in the countries of the environment that they have to cover at least 60 or 70% of the areas, and in the event that they do not do so, they are obliged to offer other media houses and public broadcasters according to the conditions on which they have obtained it. Which means, in that case, the public BHRT service would have the same option. And another problem that we have to solve, which is Parliament which is the founder of BHRT above all, to solve the problem of stable BHRT financing. On our part, as far as the 5 Ministry is concerned, we will try to bring these opinions together as soon as possible and practically bring a list of important events, while eliminating one possibility and bringing the Public TV Service into a better position financially so that it can buy evenly under much more favourable conditions. It's clear that at this point the media house that bought the rights, it sells those rights three, four or five times more than it bought, here, directly from UEFA, but on the other hand we have another problem, and that's the problem of stable BHRT financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10416	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10417	Look, after the war, in the post-war period, so here's the deal, so I'd say, there's been a transfer to, it's not clear to me now that it's harder than 15, 20 years ago and against state institutions, unfortunately, there's been an organized campaign that doesn't pay taxes, etc. I'm sorry that the biggest payoffs, according to the polls, are pensioners, and precisely because of the modest receipts they can't afford this Nova BH, Nova TV, whether, BH, I don't even know this Telekom, or m:tel etc. Or that Telemah, so that those who pay the most, pay the most regularly, they are the most endangered. And let's go a little bit to at least those institutions, at least those who are employed in these institutions of the state, that he doesn't destroy them, because there's a large number of people living very well at the expense of these institutions, and they're just tearing those institutions down, it's not, it's never been recorded in history that someone gives you good income, good wages, and you're trying to bring it down just because it's state. It reminds me of a parasite who crawls into the body of this one, the one whom, whose blood suck and he lives well, but also destroys it. And that's why I'm begging you, if there's any financial problems there. I know who's responsible and management and the board of directors, so here we are, I'm not running away from our responsibility either. [[representative is warned on time]] It can't be an excuse for years. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10418	Thank you. I give my word to Agent Branislav Borenović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10419	Thank you. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. As regards the initiative adopted by the House of Representatives almost a month ago, at the last session, which obliges the Council of Ministers to decide within seven days to order the Directorate for indirect taxation to cancel the procurement procedure relating to the purchase of business space, i.e. building in Banja Luka which, according to what we have and which is completely accurate and confirmed, is for 61 million converting marks more expensive than the projected 40, i.e. 38 million marks available to the Directorate for indirect taxation. Very concrete – Has the Council of Ministers acted according to Parliament's decision, passed this decision on to the Directorate for Direct Taxation on Conduct, when he sent it, and is 6 ready for the information that should be delivered to us on this whole public procurement? Which, as far as I've seen, has upset all the MPs who have been speaking in unbelief about whether it is possible for anyone to have at all, since at this time, overstep fixed budgetary frameworks and financial parameters that amounted to still around 38 million marks and demand an additional 61 million converting marks to settle 98.5 how embarrassing and scandalous the offer that came to the Directorate for indirect taxation. A very specific question – Did the Council of Ministers make a decision and forward it to the Directorate for indirect taxation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10420	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10421	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Let me go through this chronology a little bit, so it doesn't be as explicit as Ambassador Borenović said here, because it's not. I remind you that the Directorate for indirect taxation began in 2004, that then the Chief Office of the Administration of Banja Luka and regional centres in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar and Tuzla were established. Who made the decision to set up this kind of administration for indirect taxation we know who committed power. I also want to say that the SNSD, which was then an opposition, was against this kind of organisation of the indirect taxation administration, because it does not provide an adequate organisation from its organisation's point of view, only one other country in the European Union has such an organisation where taxes and customs are together in one organisation. We have opposed the establishment of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board in a way that we have obtained a foreigner who managed the Management Board, we have one institution that is the most important financial institution in the collection of income, and you have a Management Board that is absolutely alienated from anyone, especially, from the Resorable Competent Ministry of Finance, which is in charge of customs and tax everywhere in the world. We were also different solutions to the Jadinative Account, etc. When the question of space came, let me remind you, that regional centres began their work in the Republic Customs Administration, the Federal Customs Administration, where the premises existed. The condition for the seat to be in Banja Luka was for Republika Srpska's government, then Prime Minister Dragan Mikerević, to provide free space for the operation of the Chief Office. This has never happened in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina, no institution has been so established and you know well that then in space, which before the war began to be built and which was conceived as a shopping centre, the government bought space, invested money, and it began to work at that moment, very hard and very complicated. In 2007, the Directorate for Direct Taxation announced a land purchase contest for building a building in Banja Luka, there was no offer at that time. Many years later, the Management Board, on a proposal from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, made a decision on multi-annual capital investments in many facilities of the Directorate for indirect taxation of border crossings, regional centres and the Chief Office, the project was over 130 million converting marks, yet to be completed and there are several more crossings at this time that are being built and the unfinished area of the Regional Centre and the Central Office in Banja Luka. In 2013, the Council of Ministers confirmed the Decision on Multi-annual Capital Investments, which concludes all the powers of the Council of Ministers in the operational work of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In 2017 and 2018, the Management Board issued a public call for the purchase of space, there were no 7 offers, the value estimated at 37 million converting marks. In 2020 a new ad was announced by the Directorate for Direct Taxation without informing the Management Board without informing the Council of Ministers, because it is the sole source of jurisdiction. 8.5 thousand square meters of office space for the main office and 3.5 thousand square meters of office space for the regional centre and 3,000 square meters of so on. technical space, which is 15,000 square meters with 10% plus, minus Since it's not hard... wraps up. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm just asking you to finish this. The condition there in the competition states that the quality of construction is first-class. History now following the delivery of these offers, follows as it is, an offer was delivered at 17,000 square metres, the price offered is 4.950 plus VAT, after which the estimated value was 84 million without VAT. First, for indirect taxation, she hired experts to assess the quality of this space, the house estimated that the value of this facility offered by 84 million 250 000 was almost 15% higher in terms of the market price in Banja Luda. The Management Board informed the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and, at its session, the Management Board supported the Directorate for indirect taxation to continue the activities for the purchase of space. The indirect taxation administration delivered its statement asking for additional financial resources for this. The Council of Ministers did not consider this, is this not an act that can be considered, the Council of Ministers can only consider a decision on capital investments to be prepared by the Directorate for indirect taxation together with the Management Board, i.e. it must first be confirmed on the Management Board of the ICC. This conclusion that you have reached at a meeting of the House of Representatives, I have said several times that the conclusions that are not in accordance with the law are made, this is not in accordance with the law, the Council of Ministers has no jurisdiction over the Directorate for indirect taxation to order that the process of buying business space in Banja Luka, in no way can the Council of Ministers participate in this procedure. The entire process of buying a business space, any, building any border crossing, at the moment there are two or three border crossings, is in absolute jurisdiction of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, which I consider to be unnecessary today and that it is unnecessarily inserted between the executive authority in BiH and the Directorate for indirect taxation. The Council of Ministers, if another proposal comes from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, will declare it, but we do not have any legal basis on which we could order the Administration to annul the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10422	Thank you very much. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10423	You are obliged to follow Parliament's decision, make a decision and forward the administration, and we will see who will not respect it. Who will be held responsible for his signature tomorrow or for not acting on Parliament's decision? This is about serious fraud of the value of tens of millions of converting marks and you, as rain around Kragujevac, circle around this one, under quotes, investments in Kumovska, which you know well and fully agree with us that the price is incredibly large, not only 15% higher than the market, but also more. And that is why it is very important that you, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, act after 8 decisions of Parliament, stop and submit the decision that you need to make to the Directorate for indirect taxation, so we will see that there is a precise legal, system law... indirect taxation that is prescribed by Article 8 that the Director, together with the Management Board, responds to the Council of Ministers for his activities, so Article 9 of Article 14 you want me to read to you, I don't have time and how he has a legal stand, but also how he has criminal responsibilities here, and I know that you find it unfortunate for you. Ten more seconds, if you had daily pressure, when I had a call from your boss, I can imagine what he's doing to you. [[representative is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10424	Thank you very much. I give my word to Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10425	Thank you, Chairman. The issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, referring to the failure to answer parliamentary questions by different institutions within the Council of Ministers. I am already persistently trying to get a concrete answer from President tegeltija, and he keeps telling me that some percentage, over 90% of the questions will be answered. What we saw on this Justice Commission is always the problem in those about 5 to 10%, because it is indicative that there are no answers to the wrinkling questions left. We have a situation where the Ombudsman's institution has refused to answer questions and supplementary questions for years, an emergency, related to a foreign citizen of the United States who was sanctioned for showing a middle finger to the Bureau member's column, thus showing her right to freedom of expression. They refuse to provide answers about the homophobic statements of the Director for Scientific Discipline of the University of Sarajevo Clinical Centre. The foreign ministry has refused to respond that Bosnia and Herzegovina's ambassador to Vienna, Kemal Kozarić, has spent a team of cookies in Sarajevo. Zoran Galić refuses to provide me with an answer for more than 10 hours, which among the top bh officials travels on official trips with passports from other countries. The Institute of Measurement and the Agency for Medicinal Products, and there's already obstruction by the Council of Ministers, you tell me at the last session that you can't deliver, and then I read in the media, the Agency for Medicinal Products to tell the media, we have nothing to hide. So, the Agency for Medicinal Products gives me an answer, you stop him at the Council of Ministers. And then I read my answer, answer to my question in the media because the Council of Ministers is hiding someone in this affair "Respiratori“. - When will you deliver all these answers to these questions? You let 95% of the answers I get, I need this 5%.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10426	Thank you very much. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10427	Thank you very much. To say that this Council of Ministers is very effective, quickly responding to all questions, questions from MPs, delegates from Parliament's House of Representatives, MPs from the Federal Parliament and some others who also come as a question to the Council of Ministers. There is one part of the 9 questions that you yourself were talking about, that it is impossible for the Council of Ministers to determine the answer to that question unless it was prepared by the institution. There are two issues for which there is no agreement in the Council of Ministers, which have been provided by different institutions and different views on these matters. One of those questions, Mr. Arnaut, is this which you keep talking about. I can read what I said and last time, the answer to your question about getting a respirator was prepared by the Institute, prepared by the Medicines Agency. They made it clear that it was their position and that we would prepare the answer together. At times when both material is located in the Court of BiH, a dispute is being held, the Council of Ministers, where there are no doctors, in which there are no engineers in charge of assessing it, needs to unite one answer and say that this is the case, and the Court has yet to determine the fact. Council of Ministers, I can tell you on behalf of my colleagues here, there is no willingness to determine... the answers to parliamentary questions of different positions of the institutions for the case before the Court of Justice of BiH. We don't want to be. There, some of those people who prepared that response, are part of the trial, some as accused, some as witnesses, and they wrote those answers. We now expect the Council of Ministers to confirm or not confirm their views. Believe me, I'll be happy to send you one and the other answers they've prepared, but you can't get an answer from the Council of Ministers in a way, because we can't determine at this point which institution is right and which is not when it comes to that procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10428	Thank you very much. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10429	Thank you, Chairman. You are, however, the head of that executive authority, so if we have a situation this first that the institution has not prepared an answer then urinate, urinate for Bisera Turković to deliver this, urinate for the Ombudsman institution to leave this around the middle finger. It's a shame one, a foreign citizen punished for something she couldn't be punished in her country, because she dared, did she, to the Bureau member, show her middle finger. Give me that answer, give me a response to Zoran Galić about this. Why are you protecting these people? And finally, Mr. Tegeltija, when this second situation is where you like now cannot determine the answer, so I'm reading the answers to those questions in the media. You tell me in the last session that you can't deliver, the Medicines Agency honestly, says transparently – we don't have anything to hide, gives a response to the media. And then I read the answer to your question in the media, and you're hiding it from me here. I do not understand at all what law you are following, nor does it bear the mark secretly, nor does it mean to the Agency itself to give it to the media, and you are hiding it from the MPs in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10430	Thank you very much. I give my word to Agent Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10431	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present representatives and MPs and distinguished members of the Council of Ministers. 10 My question is – Why did the BiH Council of Ministers not decide on the declaration of 11 July 2021 on the day of mourning in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory? So, I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers, from 2015 to 2019, has unanimously taken the decision to declare July 11th on a day of mourning in the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, I recall that the BiH Council of Ministers unfortunately failed to reach a decision last 2020. So, this time I call, i.e. asking the Council of Ministers to now correct this civilization's injustice, to make a decision on the declaration of 11 July 2021 on the day of mourning in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in effect, express a pate towards the victims and families of the victims of the genocide committed in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10432	Thank you. Answer, Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Tegeltija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10433	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. To clarify... the Foreign Ministry delivered yesterday at the end of the day a proposal for a decision to declare the day of mourning on 11 July. This, the foreign ministry's proposal came after asking Mr. Zvizdić's questions, I'm not saying that there's anything in common, these time terms, but to say that's what it looks like. Guided by reason, which Mr. Zvizdić read here, speaks only about the period 2015 to 2019. Given that the day, that the event in Srebrenica was marked much longer, I tried to really check how the Council of Ministers worked during the previous period of time, as it had a relationship with it. And first, to say that the first decision, which I was able to verify, was made in 2005. Basically, there were two decisions, one that treated the financial part of the marking and the other that treated the day of mourning. In 2005 a decision was taken to provide 100 000 KM from the budget of the joint institutions for the celebration of 11 July, and a decision was made to declare the day of mourning... This financial aspect of the decision was pushed through and continued from 2005 to 2014, mainly in the same amount of 100 000 KM, the exception was 2008 and 2009. In 2008, there were 150 thousand KM, 2009. 200 thousand KM. Since 2015, we have no individual financial decisions but the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari has become a budgetary user. And within their budget there is one position called Transfer to other levels of government – transfer to the Municipality of Srebrenica of 150 thousand KM that is spent to organise it together. As for the decision to declare the day of mourning, the first decision was made in 2005 and was made in continuity until 2008. From 2009 to 2015, this funding issue continued, but no decisions were made to declare the day of mourning. The Council of Ministers took the decision to declare the day of mourning from 2015 to 2019, and the financial aspect was within the Memorial Centre Srebrenica – Potocari. When it comes to 2020, a decision has been prepared for the Council of Ministers' session. The meeting of the Council of Ministers was in that week as well as now that on the week before Sunday, before the date was marked, and the Council of Ministers held a meeting on the agenda. So we were unable to consider that decision or any other decision on the Council of Ministers. Now that I'm not going back to history, which is why the agenda wasn't adopted, but the reason 11 was not this decision. It's about 2020. This decision by the foreign ministry will be discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Of course, we'll all know what decision will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10434	Thank you very much. Whether the co-chair wishes, thank you very much, does not want to comment. I give my word to Aida Baruči. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10435	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. My question is for the Minister of Finance and the Treasury. The essential list of medicines, both in the world and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, covers only the most important round of key essential medicines that the state is obliged to provide for the minimum health protection of the population on its territory, and given the most common climate disease in which the population lives. The proposed list is based on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines, and respecting, therefore, the most common diseases of the climate in which the population lives. The essential list should not be mixed with a list of prescribed and issued medicines on the burden of compulsory health insurance, so-called A positive list, because the essential list represents a minimum of medicines to be found on the Positive List. So, the Essential List is a very important act for the functioning of the health and social system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The failure to adopt that act results in an unequal availability for Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens to a minimum of medicines prescribed on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds, as well as a minimum of medicinal products in hospital health care. The Agency for Medicinal Products cannot refer this act to the adoption of the Council of Ministers without the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. I asked you ministers at the 14th session of this House, held on 18.12., the oral question of why you are awaiting the Ministry's opinion. First you said that the question seems to be ordered by the pharmaceutical industry, and that you did not get to know the end and that you would deliver the answer in writing. After three months, exactly 15.03.'21. I've been working out, and I got the answer to the question in the sixth month. The answer is – The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices requested the opinion of the competent institutions and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in 25.11.2015. Given that the proposed decision in question on the list of essential medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and that it has been almost six years, it is necessary for the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to inogate its material. You further state that you want to point out that the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury is not binding, and that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices can and could have instructed the relevant material to the Council of Ministers for consideration. [[Advocacy is warned on time]] My question is whether your answer to which you state that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is not binding in this case in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, as the members are clearly defined for the preparation of material for the session, time limits for delivering opinions, handling... material etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10436	Thank you very much. 12 Answers, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, Mr Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10437	President, College, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, all present, a sincere greeting with a desire for successful work. I will try to frame myself in the two-minute assignments, be to the end correct and concrete regarding the question of the distinguished MP Baruči. So, the Ministry, I'll skip everything, you said a few facts that stood, that the question came, that I was giving both the oral answer and the written answer, I'll go back to the most important, so the Ministry of Finance delivered to the General Secretariat 05.05.'21. The year's proposal answers the question of respected MPs, Mrs Aida Baruči, who asked about making this decision on the essential list of medicines. The Council of Ministers adopted the proposed response at its 39th session, 1106. The answer is, and then you will see that this is both logic and fact, that the proposed decision on the list of essential medicines in Bosnia and Herzegovina is from 2015, and that it has been almost six years, it is necessary that the Agency for Medicinal Products in accordance with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Institutions. It is also a fact that it is stated in this opinion that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is not binding, and that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices could refer the material in question to the Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption. The Ministry of Finance and the Treasury also referred the Act to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Centres on 09.06 that the relevant request for an opinion on a decision to be renewed is necessary, that due to the course of several fiscal years in which the original request was delivered, with the explanation of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the same and for the application of the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in institutions... the establishment of a fiscal assessment and delivery of the forms as prescribed in Annex I, Article 12. Unique rules for making legal rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. Here, that's what the current state is. I hope, since my associates are in communication with the Medicines Agency, that they will act this way and that we will simply come up with a solution and a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10438	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10439	Thank you. I'd like to thank the Minister for finally sending a reply to the Medicines Agency and, behold, in this answer, he stated that the material was six years old. So, I have information that the Agency for Medicinal Products has sent 10 to the ER, but here, thank you and for the answer now, and I hope that the problem of the essential list will be solved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10440	Thank you very much. I now give my word to MPs Mirjana Marinsković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10441	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome everyone present. My oral question was also addressed to the finance and vault minister. Namely, the question is – Why has the Ministry of Finance and Treasury's opinion on the draft amendments and addition of the Labour Act to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina not been given so far? In fact, we here very often in the answers, and in the oral parliamentary questions, but also in writing, we get answers to wait for the opinions of certain institutions. And, of course, I understand the process and I know that certain questions require these opinions, but I don't understand when the failure of those opinions turns into a kind of obstruction. Two initiatives were adopted as early as February 2020 in early February. So one of my initiatives to amend Article 43 (1) of the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina applies to the rights of parents of children with special needs if both parents are employed. So this was only about one member, and also because of the urgency and the fact that only at the state level this issue was not properly arranged. And the second initiative was in general to amend and set up a working group to amend and supplement the Labour Act. After that, the procedure is united in the sense that no new law will be done but that a number of amendments will be made to which this member will be included. On the 26th of October 2020, therefore, I received an answer to my question of what is the matter with these laws. The consultations have been completed, it said, with an interested public, a preliminary impact assessment has been carried out, etc., that I am not reading to you further, and that, therefore, the amendments in question and the amendments to the Labour Act are also covered by this Article 43. And, he says, the reason why making the proposal lasts longer, of course, again COVID, I mean, which I don't admit, is because in today's communication era, it could have been very much working when, therefore, the pandemic was in progress. So, since nothing's been going on since 26.10, so let me just point out that I asked a question. So I received an answer in 14.06 that it was only waiting for the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to think, while the other competent institutions delivered their opinions in order to finally form a bill. [[Advocacy is warned on time]] So, question - why wait a year and a half?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10442	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr. Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10443	Another hello to everyone. I'll try to respect the two-minute frame again. We have received questions from distinguished MPs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, which is formulated in two points. One – why the Ministry of Finance and Treasury has not delivered an opinion yet and the other – when there will finally be an amendment and addition of the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will answer the question concerning the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. In accordance with the law of its jurisdiction, it gives its opinion on legal regulations in the design phase, referring to financial aspects that imply a regulation that may have an impact on Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, which is also the case with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in 14 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Especially with regard to your initiative, the law, the holder of this law is the Ministry of Justice. The law is prepared in a slightly broader format than the initiative in question, and implies a more complex evaluation of the financial effects on the budget of the institutions during its application, so... in this context the processor referred, means the one who does the law, to make additional financial corrections to make everything in spirit with the law. So I want to try to convince you that this is not about any obstructions, but about standard procedures in which we have a responsible and professional approach to complex and sensitive work. Because these well - done projections depend greatly on its practical application. I don't think there's any reason for these procedures not to be completed any time soon. So, the Ministry of Justice, then, based on your initiative, gave the answer found on the Council of Ministers where, the truth is, what you said was waiting. We, to inform you, have given an opinion asking the Proposer, the Ministry of Justice, to supplement material with financial aspects. And there's no reason for this part of the story to end quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10444	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to comment on the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10445	Yeah, I want to, uh, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10446	Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10447	No matter what you say, I said that I am aware of the fact that there are procedures and that certain opinions should be given, but I got the answer on October 26, 2021 to wait for opinions, and today we know what the date is, so July 2021. And you can't convince me that until now all this procedure shouldn't have ended. So someone slowed down, either the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Justice. So that's why I'm mentioning obstructions because this is taking too long. And I'd only ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10448	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted oral questions and answers. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change of session agenda, I would like to point out the following. The following is added to the agenda of the House: Point 9. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency (first reading). The agenda has been downloaded: 15 Point 14. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for February 2021, applicant: the BiH Ministry of Security, at the request of the Defence and Security Committee. The following are added: point 6. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, a shortened procedure, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: Representative Nenad Nešić, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Representative Nikola Lovrinović called for the debate. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10449	Good afternoon. Hello to you in the College and present in the hall. So here I am using the opportunity and opportunity of the article, so 71. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH to propose an addition of the agenda with a title – Declaration on obtaining candidate status for membership in the European Union. So, a little bit of an explanation about that. In fact, according to our article 165, it is an act containing a principle of opinion on the important issues that the House was considering. The reasons why I've opted for this and that, and the quality in which I'm doing it and I'm doing it is because I'm a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration already second term, its president. The other thing is that I am also a representative, further on, that I am a member of this Committee and that I have participated in many discussions on reporting, seeking answers for our path to European integration, about all the states we are in. And last session, if I'm not mistaken, we've had a report that no one's reported on, so it seems like it's matured time, in a way, to stop in the midst of unnecessary stories and debates and demands of something that when we actually get into it and we don't participate as Parliament's Assembly, so I suggest, therefore, that we stop. Yes, as Dom, let us be clear about what you already have, I hope, received, which is shared with you. It seems to me it's about time we stopped waiting to wait. Every new opinion, in my opinion, so I do not have to be right, of course I will leave a part of that for discussion if it enters the agenda, every new session of the European Parliament, the European Commission, before us, before the Council of Ministers, sets new challenges, requirements, conditions, preconditions, priorities before the bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I don't see any reason, and here you have everything listed as tax since we applied for membership in the European Union, so we don't get granted candidate status. How much I am informed in the fall will be resumed by the European Commission and bring some sort of position on us. What you have, I hope, been able to read and what you will read from this material that I have proposed gives us the opportunity, therefore, to make our position known as the Parliamentary Assembly of both homes towards Parliament, the European Parliament, which is our partner and colleague, we have set up a Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, and we can discuss it. Therefore, obtaining candidate status does not mean membership in the European Union. Some have been in candidate status for decades. So, I don't see any reason to insult our intelligence. I apologize if, perhaps, you think differently, I think our position is clear, on the basis of our request that we have long submitted that we want to be a member of the European Union, on the 16th trail of what we all say in the media, in the public, that we are for the European path, that we do not bring this one position to the European Parliament to help us, therefore, with the European Commission to get candidate status and open talks on chapters. [[representative is warned on time]] The new methodology for doing that, here in a few seconds, is a new methodology, so there's no reason not to open... We are now working on, say, the Public Procurement Act which, those 14 priorities, and now imagine, let's say formally that we get our status, that's what I was already saying here in Parliament, in the fall, the candidates, so we have to agree again. Many of our laws, i.e. everyone gets the DEI's opinion. Therefore, there is no reason not to get candidate status and to open discussions according to the methodology of the new one we have also accepted, which all countries with... I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that you will understand this well on purpose. I hope you're here to read and make sense of a declaration like this, that we simply encourage colleagues from the European Parliament that it is high time for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get candidate status in 2021. I hope you understand... as a message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10450	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10451	Thank you. I request the inclusion on the agenda of the parliamentary initiative, which we have submitted and which is divided into all colleagues, which is being ordered by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit within three months of the date of adoption of this initiative in the legislative procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners of BiH, which will allow for the regulated stay of digital nomads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Digital nomads are a term that is already deeply offended and famous in the countries of the European Union and in many other countries in the world, it is a matter of persons who are generally highly educated, who are receiving wax revenues and who are citizens, whether, third countries, who are employed or who do business by means of communication technology, therefore, the Internet and a laptop for a particular company or for their own company, which is not registered in the territory of the state in which they reside, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this case, does not perform jobs and does not provide services to employers on the territory of the country in which they reside. In particular, these are people who travel around the world with a laptop, work for companies or for their companies registered in third countries, and live where at some point they are better, cheaper or potentially more interesting, it carries huge financial benefits for each country where these highly educated and highly-paid people are found. Many countries in Estonia, Iceland, the Czech Republic have allowed tens of thousands of these highly educated people to stay on their territory and the Republic of Croatia did so in January. From the initiative to the amendments to their law, it was only five months ago, and so I suggested that the Council of Ministers be given a three-month period to prepare and deliver it to the procedure and then we would have an additional two months to adopt it in both homes. As far as I'm concerned, it's quite all right that the Council of Ministers, and I've cited it in an explanation, consults, possibly copying solutions that have been applied in the Republic of Croatia, there's also a link with information on these solutions that have been applied in the neighbouring country, and this would indeed have significant, significant benefits for the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 17 would also obviously contribute to the creation of jobs in our country, whether, somewhere, these people are living, using our services, using services in our country, etc. etc. The initiative, therefore, is not an initiative of the law, the Council of Ministers, including all relevant ministries, is therefore leaving room to consider all matters concerning this issue, and that legislative solutions, i.e. legislative solutions, adapt the situation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10452	Thank you. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10453	Thank you, Chairman. Here, of course, I am also using the business opportunity to complete the agenda with a parliamentary initiative requiring the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up, within 30 days, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, a full report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the Expo 2020 World Exhibition, which will include the establishment of responsibilities on this issue, and a proposal for the recovery of damages incurred so far during the events related to participation in the exhibition, which implies not taking any action to prepare the exhibition, i.e. the equipment of the Pavilina Bosnia and Herzegovina, leading to a violation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation and the possibility of paying a very high penalty in the event that we do not participate in this fair. I decided on a proposal to supplement the agenda due to the fact that the EXPO 2020, which has moved two thousand to this year due to the epidemic, means, in Dubai, planned in less than three months, in response to my parliamentary question, I have received a very comprehensive retrospective of events related to this exhibition, but I want the Council of Ministers to actually end up with complete information with these elements and with what the final outcome will be related to the maintenance of the exhibition. In fact, we could read that retrospective from the media, but we are interested in what will be further and who will be responsible for everything. Given the fact that, on two occasions, the answer that the Ministry of Finance did not accept the cost, the first one, or the reduced one, is of interest to me, among other things, whether the Ministry of Finance was familiar with the contract signed, whether it gave prior consent, etc. Given the fact that we are approaching the date of the exhibition, I believe that we should put this item on the agenda and ask for a full analysis in the way it is stated in the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10454	Thank you very much. Representative Sanja Vulić. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10455	Thank the chairman, Mrs. Krišto. I also propose adding to the agenda, which is a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of a provisional investigative commission, and it is a temporary investigative commission for the establishment of the state in the Public TV Service of BiH. We have heard from MPs that many colleagues have 18 doubts about the situation in BHRT. I must say that my colleague Nešić and I have been visiting as members of the Transport and Communications Commission in that institution and indeed there is one hopelessness, absolutely nothing is known, nothing is happening or what is happening. I have worked really hard to set in this proposal such goals and tasks as to make everyone acceptable, that I do not have any political or national connotations, because I believe that only one impartial, objective approach to seeing the situation in this institution can come up with a solution, if we are at all interested in finding a solution to the survival of this Public Service. The truth is, all of us, in Republika Srpska, and you here in the Federation, uh, we're trying to keep our public services, and I think it's perfectly legitimate, and that's the way it should be, but when it comes to BHRT if we don't seriously deal with the situation, I'm going to dare say, by reporting to the government there, we're going to be in a serious problem. My kolega Nešić and I have had the opportunity to hear that they are engaged and selling land and much as soon as I absolutely do not amnesty anyone, or previous members of the board of directors who come from the Serbian people, they all participated in such, in me, illegal decisions, but here I have tried to objectively suggest that how many clubs there are in this House, and that is eight, we have eight members of the commission, because I believe that consensus and one correct agreement can be reached and that we all have a clear view. I think it's the only way to get rid of this situation, because for years back in that BHRT, we only have one bottomless hole and no solution to the problem. Also, in order to avoid confusion, I would like to say, you know that in the past few weeks we have had there a retaliatory action by the director of BHRT against Serbian leaders and editors, that they have been replaced without conducting a disciplinary procedure, that was not my motive for the proposal of this conclusion, because I am the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the SIPA and the Police Authorities' Coordination Directorate sent a parliamentary initiative to investigate what is happening here, given that these leaders, so to say, are on the pillar of retribution, to threaten them with rape, killing and so forth. I think these are institutions that have to investigate and investigate everything. Considering that I myself had a similar experience that I was threatened to end my earthly life by entering Sarajevo. I also have to thank the Republika Srpska and Canton Ministry of Interior in Sarajevo, who have identified the person who has threatened me and are now committing a criminal act of jeopardising security over it. Of course, institutions do their jobs and I don't doubt institutions, so I've absolutely separated that part from what I think is really a problem and I don't see the point of us sitting here on the Pralament discussing a BHRT that doesn't have any future and I absolutely have absolutely no intention, and I don't want to be a member of this committee, but I would really like my colleagues to support this initiative and to determine their own facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10456	Thank you very much. Representative Dragan Mektić. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10457	Thank you, President. I'm taking the opportunity to begin by saying hello to all my colleagues and colleagues present here. I am this proposal, the initiative, to say so, provoked by an answer to one of my parliamentary questions, I will make that comment under point 2 when the comments are, and it concerns 19 of the Decision on Protected Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think there's been a complete anarchy, and I don't think you know who's protecting who and who's following who here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it's necessary for the Council of Ministers to change the Decision on Protected Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, I'm going to point out only one example, Bosnia and Herzegovina's chief prosecutor, although the directorate didn't want me to answer that, but I'm going to say it in comments, protecting 18 police officers, and also the Police Coordination Directorate protects her son and his family, who is over 40 years old, has, uses an official vehicle, rides in an official vehicle of the Police Coordination Directorate, when she goes abroad, on vacation, wherever she travels to the Police Coordination Directorate's vehicle goes, cops go with him. The same is not just the case, it has protected personalities where children go on a trip, whose children take a bus on a trip and the official vehicle of the Police Coordination Directorate is followed by a bus to Greece, back and forth, etc. etc. I don't want to talk about these problems anymore. I think we have a decision on protected personalities that doesn't exactly comply with the standards, especially European Union standards. It is clear here in my reply, but I will comment afterwards, said here who is being protected, chairman and members of the Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Ministerial Council of BiH, the chairman and deputy of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidents of the Court and the Chief Prosecutor. And let the Directorate provide us with a list of protected persons, so they'll see that there are ten times more people here to protect, to which material resources are spent, to which financial resources are spent, and to which, and who needs to, and who doesn't need them. Well, by that logic, all and one MP can then here in this House get physical protection of the directorate, get an official vehicle and no longer know. I think personally that all ministers, I started this initiative and while I was still a minister, should not have physical protection and security. In all normal countries, the European Union, above all, is a standard to protect these personalities that are wrinkled here and to protect the state's defence minister and the security minister or the interior minister of the state. So I suggest, please, that we accept the conclusion that in this area we introduce order, that children are being guarded abroad, that they are being watched over, that they are being guarded, that neither I nor I, which relatives, etc. I've set an example for you, a child being guarded by the D.A., it's not a child anymore, it's a man between the ages of 40 and 50. Is there a chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Brothers, The logic belongs to him too, or I don't know if I'm counting. [[representative is warned on time]] Huge resources are financially, materially, human spending needlessly, huge resources are being wasted, please accept this initiative according to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10458	Thank you very much. Here, we've exhausted the debate on today's session agenda. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the pleas. The first proposal to supplement the agenda is inclusion – Declaration on obtaining candidate status for membership in the European Union, Proposer: Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Please state the proposal to include this item in the agenda of today's session. Of the 34 present – for 21 versus 8, abstentions 5. 20 There is a general................................................................... [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 34 present – for 21 versus 9, abstentions 4. There is a general, but there is no entity majority. Are we going to the second round right now or later? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10467	I have an objection to this part of the initiative, which was adopted by the House of Representatives on the proposal of distinguished fellow Members of Pekić and myself, in which, I have a feeling, the part that was proposed in the first part, and you know well that we have respected the position of Honorable Member Čolo, who in some way modified our initiative, which read as we have read: "Salanica initiative which is the House of Representatives of the Assembly of BiH, in a scale with Article 35. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to cancel, no later than 7 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, a decision requiring the Directorate for Direct Taxation to annul the procurement procedure published by the Directorate for Direct Taxation for the purchase of an existing business facility in Banja Luka for the accommodation of employees at the Central Office and the Regional Centre in Banja Luka and to deliver detailed information on this public procurement to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." This is just my reaction to simply be respected and to put it in the record as it was actually read through a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10468	No more objections. I ask the service to comply with the stenogram, uh, see if this intervention is justified or not, because the record should correspond to what is written on the stenogram and of course read. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing asked representatives: Sanja Vulić two questions, Zukan Helez one question, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic three questions and a rush to deliver answers, MP Arnaut asked two questions, Edin Mušić three questions, Adil Osmanović's representative initiative, Šemsudin Mehmedović one question, Saša Magazinović one question, Aida Baručija 48 questions. Initiatives The College of the House of Representatives addressed: Vlatko Glavaš, representatives of the SDA Club, and representatives of Predrag Kojović, Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Baručija and Arnaut two initiatives. 26 The following answers were submitted to today's session: the question of Marinković-Lepić-Lepic 14 answers and one notice, to the question of MPs Baručija four answers, to the question of representatives Arnaut, 23 answers were submitted, one answer was submitted to the question of MPs Nikšić, Begić, Mektić, Heleza and Mušić. A response was submitted to the initiative adopted on the proposal of Representative Glavaš. Any comments on the answers received? Representative Zukan Helez. Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10470	I thank the chairman. I want to commend the Director of the Border Police, who I asked the question to, and just as I asked, and everything I asked for, I got the correct, precise answer, how many people are employed there, what are the receipts, what are the salaries, how many of the cantons have employed, national, age, sexual structure, meaning everything in detail and precision. And I want to pull one parallel, a few months ago I asked Mrs. Biseri Turković, the foreign minister of the question I never got, uh, the answer, no trace, no voice, no habera, and then when you say, uh, these exclusively one loves the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and these others and the priors don't like the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a relationship, a boastful relationship between the minister and the MPs, towards this House and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I thank Director Galić once again for the precise, accurate and honest answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10471	Thank you, counsel. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10472	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I asked a question in the written form of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reads – What has the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs done on the basis of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs act, since 17 April 2019, which points to failures in the procedure of issuing passports to the minority Selma Delić, and states that it is necessary to remove and act in accordance with the applicable legal and sub-legal legislation in the area in question? Given that I have not received an answer within 30 days, as specified by the Rules of Procedure, I would like to publicly point to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the failures made in the process of issuing passports for the young-time person Selma Delić at the BiH Embassy in Stockholm, and call on the minister to be in the interest of protecting the rights of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible to include and resolve the case from his jurisdiction. The power of attorney in front of Delić Muhidin, his sister Delić Munevera has since 2018 addressed all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the protection of the rights of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, her brother Muhidin Delić and his underage daughter Selma Delić, who live in Sweden, 2018. Munevera Delić also addressed the BiH Parliament with a request for inclusion and assistance in order to protect the rights and interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sweden. In a particular case, it is a request and an effort by Delić Muhidin to return his 27 daughters, the underage Selma Delić, from temporary guardians in the Swedish family, to whom she was temporarily assigned while he was in prison while her mother left her. After Muhidin Delić got out of prison, he asked his daughter to return as a biological father because the circumstances of temporary custody in the Swedish family had ceased and had previously been taken from him by a court decision or by any other competent authority. The reason I asked the question in question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that in 2018, the power of power of Munevera Delić addressed the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Department of Citizenship and travel documents, seeking to examine failures in the issue of passports for a minor child. The act states that on 10.04.2017 at the BiH Embassy in Sweden, a request for the issue of passports for a minor child, Selma Delić, was submitted, and the request was signed by the father of the child Muhidin Delić. After a passport was made, it is claimed that it is the same instead of notifying the father as the applicant, and that he is taking over, a passport from the BiH Embassy in Stockholm was sent to a social institution in Sweden, and from that social institution a passport from a small-time Selma was delivered to a Swedish family with whom she was in temporary custody. The Ministry of Civil Affairs, in its act of 15.03.2019, pointed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all failures and actions that were made contrary to the Guidelines on the takeover of travel documents, and requested that it be acted in accordance with the applicable rules governing the specified matter. After a month The Ministry of Civil Affairs warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its act of 17 April 2019 that the procedure for issuing the passport in question had not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Travel Documents of BiH and the relevant sublaws, and pointed out the failures and stressed that it was necessary to remove and act in accordance with the applicable legislative and sublegislative legislation in this area. [[representative is warned on time]] Since the power of attorney, Munevera Delić, has repeatedly failed to address the foreign minister to receive her for the interview, and that the foreign ministry, according to the authority, has yet to approach the removal Under the law, I ask Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister to react Selma to protect the interests and rights of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to answer my asked question in writing. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10473	I ask all MPs to follow the rules of procedure of a certain time for comments. Representative Dragan Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10474	Thank you. I received an answer to my asked question, and it was – according to whose assessment, on the basis of which the arguments, facts and knowledge of BiH's chief prosecutor is threatened, security threatened to the extent that 18 police officers are currently provided by the Directorate, etc., etc. I still asked the question downstairs to be delivered to me for every protected person, the names of protected persons and the number of officers assigned to them. However, no, I just explained, which is why I was provoked... by the conclusion, I would not repeat this all I said, but I would say that the answer, not to derivate me as an MP in this House of Representatives, but to derogate the entire House of Representatives as the highest authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, the 28-degree data, the way in which jobs are done, is the answer, therefore, their insurance, the number of members, tactics, vehicle insurance methods, etc. The Police Body Coordination Directorate can't deliver because they're operational. I didn't ask for any technique, no tactics, no operating methods as security is being carried out, but I was just looking for a number of cops, just for this very reason which, and by whose assessment, is being given. Here, I know that there must be an assessment of the Intelligence and Security Agency that security, other than those listed in the decision itself, is at risk to the extent that security is needed. I know well that there is a certain number of people for whom there is no such assessment, and the Directorate has provided security. The Directorate is not an operational agency that can carry out operational checks and operational assessments, it can do SIPA for protected persons and the Intelligence and Security Service, and there are no such assessments. Another thing, if this is, the number of undercover officers I think all MPs at the House have access to classified information by law directly. And this number, it cannot refuse to deliver an answer to the House of Representatives, or to me as an MP. If it requires the character of a protected secret document then it just needs to be classified in accordance with the Code on the Protection of Secret Information and we will act I would have handled this issue in accordance with the Secret Information Protection Act. [[representative is warned on time]] So I'm going to repeat this question and get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10475	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this point 2. - comments. We're moving on to three agendas, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, No 01,02-02-1-1223/21, of 16.06.2021. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. I'm opening an emergency hearing. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Of the total 23 present – for 14, against 3, abstentions 6. There is a general, but there is no entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? [[/consultations in the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10479	Thank you, Chairman. The four amendments you mentioned were amendments I made to this law. They are significantly improving this proposal and I am very pleased, therefore, about full law, not about amendments and additions. Four amendments, of a total of seven, were adopted by the relevant who were in the process. I thank my colleagues for the Constitutional Commission who supported it. What I particularly want to point out here is that an amendment has been adopted to protect the rights of trial within a reasonable period of time includes an investigation conducted by the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This sentence was in the initial draft of this law which was at... consultation. During the adoption procedure, the draft law was drawn up. I tried to get an explicit answer yesterday from a Justice Department representative whose search for it was taken out, I didn't get an answer. However, it is good that the majority on the Constitutional Commission supported, therefore, that the right to trial within a reasonable period includes, not only a court case, but also an investigation conducted by the prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This is in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, as I quoted in the explanation, and thus represents the international commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I want to point out is that given that this law, because it is a Council of Ministers' proposal, is parallel to the legislative procedure in both homes, I hope that some colleagues will propose an identical amendment to the House of Peoples. If that does not happen, if such an amendment does not pass this Law, it will go to the Coordination Commission. And I really appeal to all colleagues from the ruling coalition to make sure that in that committee for reconciliation, which counts six members, three from each home, they are not, and that includes, therefore, two representatives from each nation, that we do not have two representatives of the HDZ here, because HDZ did not support this amendment that is really important. And if this goes to the Coordination Commission, and we have a representative of the HDZ and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, it will almost certainly mean that this amendment will be rejected. So I'm already asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10480	Thank you very much. I'd just like to pray we stick to the agenda. Representative Dragan Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10481	Thank you. 30 Well, I just wanted to say that yesterday we were on the Constitutional Commission discussing these amendments and I supported these amendments. And although I have all sorts of reasons to support and not to support, but I've chosen to, uh, support it because this is the way the D.A. doesn't, no, it's not polite, I don't know, in a reasonable trial, it's now being investigated. And often the BiH Prosecutor's Office is using the investigation as a kind of political pressure and personal accounting with certain individuals. That is why you can find a situation to open an investigation lightly against someone and that these investigations take several years, and therefore, a personal account is being made of certain individuals from the BiH Prosecutor's Office with some persons. Often, and it happens mainly that, given that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is a floor, it serves and has become a function of certain political interests, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office also carries out political dealings with non-insidents, and most often with critics of the BiH prosecutor's work. That's why I'm going to support these amendments because they also cover the duration of the investigation. You can't go on forever against someone, uh, an investigation, and that way, let's say some local jargon, someone to keep in the ravine. Here, just to support it with one example, a personal example, not that I'm trying to put some pressure on the D.A.'s office right now, but be careful, my diploma that I won before the war at the University of Zagreb, five years of investigation, five years of investigation. So just to prevent such forms of manipulation and abuse of the prosecution in investigations, I will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10482	Thank you very much. I would once again warn, I know that one number of MPs is not so fond of the Rules of Procedure, but today we are having a debate on the draft law in the second reading and today I do not see that we have new amendments. I allow someone to look back on those in some way, but today we should have a debate in line with the Rules of Procedure when it comes to second reading. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10483	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SNSD Club welcomes the intention and the proposal of the Council of Ministers to which, that is, the proposal which it referred to in the parliamentary procedure, because we are all aware of the real need for the real protection of citizens' rights before courts which, of course, includes us safely, and the trial within a reasonable period. And indeed in what agonys of time and life many of our citizens come because of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary we all know and we can talk for a long time. I'm going to shorten my actual discussion. I am sorry that it may be unnecessary, which may be unnecessary to extend the entry into force, i.e. the adoption and entry into force of this Act, the amendments to the Constitutional Commission which have now become part of this text, an integral part of this text that we are to plead today because for the SNSD Club, they are not acceptable because we believe that, unnecessarily, things have been complicated in connection with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Administrative Procedure and that, I am afraid, we are coming into a situation to create a potential situation for the Court to interfere with the work of administrative authorities or the Prosecutor's Office, which I am not sure how legally sustainable it is. I understand the practice, uh, and the need to look wherever possible at the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, but these are not obligatory things. We have to... the system to consider how it is in force and, compared to it, we have to define ourselves and make decisions. 31 So, anyway, uh, we're going to agree on our own way of voting, and we're going to express our position through the votes today. But here I repeat again, it must be necessary to have this law as soon as possible, but everything that's a potential complication I think we should, uh, put aside and miss the law as it was proposed by the Justice Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10484	Thank you very much. Alma Čolo's ticket. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10485	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to talk a little bit about the amendments that have been adopted, and as far as this law is concerned and the scope of the investigative procedure within that time limit to end the criminal proceedings. Well, I would say that, according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights which has the most cases, you know that 47 countries of the Council of Europe are covered by the European Court of Human Rights and most of the proceedings brought before that court relate to the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time which is the element of the right to a fair procedure under Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights is that the investigation procedure, a case in which someone is suspected of a crime, is an integral part of the element of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and that investigations that take too long are being considered before the European Court of Human Rights if the applicant calls for it. However, yesterday we were explained by the Ministry of Justice that in the criminal, Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Article 225, it was prescribed how long the investigation could take before the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I will remind you of the OSCE report, which is called the "Indemnity Syndrome", which states that in some cases before the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the investigation took so long that the procedure for high corruption had to be suspended because the investigation was not terminated within the appropriate deadline, because the Criminal Procedure Act foresees if the investigation does not end within the appropriate deadline. Well, that OSCE report listed one case against senior IDDEEA official, the director of IDDEEA, who was suspected of high corruption of over a million marks. It has been suspended because all deadlines prescribed by this Article are 225. The law on criminal proceedings, the past, and the prosecutor has not filed charges, and the investigation has been suspended. And that is why I am on the line for these amendments to be accepted, for the investigation to be covered, which is in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. And I would still like to express my dissatisfaction with the state-level law that applies only to the BiH Court and only to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Article 6 The European Convention on Human Rights obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina, obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina to regulate it by its law, means all judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Obviously, there is no political will and everyone will pass a law for individual levels of government. And yet there is no political will to investigate, which in all 47 countries of the Council of Europe, goes into the length of the proceedings, so that now the investigation is not covered by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10486	Thank you very much. 32 No more reported. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, Proposer: Agent Denis Zvizdić, number: 01-02-1-895/21, of 26.05.2021. (second reading) The proposed law was adopted in the right reading in the second round of voting at the last session. The Constitutional Commission delivered the Report. The bill was passed with one amendment. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, Proposer: MPs Nermin Nikšić, Saša Magazinović, Nada Mladina and Zukan Helez, Law No: 01-02-1-863/21, of 21/04.2021, shortened procedure, with Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10491	There's no proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10492	This is no longer a point, she is, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Now I don't know, here, I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2021, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1306/21, of 24.06.2021. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion. The College has appointed the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider the draft law. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion. The commission found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Aida Baručija's representative, the debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10494	Thank you, Chairman. 34 I, in the name of the Club Our Party – Independent Block, propose a conclusion that reads – we suggest that the adoption of the Budget be postponed for 2021 until the agreement is reached with the trade unions on the basis of the salary account.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10495	Thank you very much. I don't see any more registered by this agenda item, I have, an apology, representative Mira Pekić, a debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10496	Thank you. Well, here we have again the draft budget in July of the current year for this year and this draft budget is 31 million higher than the draft budget that was, but the budget that was for 2020. Of course, we haven't even received a report on spending, about the execution of budgets for 2020, so again, here we were, when the seventh month came, we were able to consider all of this in one material. But what are the facts and what is visible in this budget is that this increase in the budget by 31 million in 2021, regardless of the budget revenues that were transferred from the '20s from 2020. in '21. A year, I think the draft budget itself could have been smaller. It could, or the expenditures foreseen in the budget, have had to be smaller, much smaller, and thus the revenues that follow that spending side could have been lower, for example, to plan smaller incomes from indirect taxes compared to the 780 million that were planned this year, and I remind myself that last year the first income from these indirect taxes was increased from 750 to 780 million. And that's how it's been this year. There was room to reduce regardless of that fiscal framework. If we look at 2020 where all economic indicators have a negative trend, where the decline and gross social product and the decline of income from indirect taxes, this one, was evident and Bosnia and Herzegovina is recovering. In 2021, they're not great economic indicators, and I don't see the reason for the proposal, or the draft of a budget like this. Juli, the seventh month was, there was space and could be taken into account with great return to the realisation of the Presidency – Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, this economic moment could be considered. But what is the fact that this budget envisions, that the budgets of all almost budget organisations, i.e. ministries, agencies and offices of all kinds have a trend in growth. We see that it's just a little below 100, that percentage indicator, everyone else is, has a growth trend. And as if the ideal situation is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as if the ideal state is in collecting both taxes and income, and as if we all live in some ideal situation in the budget of joint institutions, or the agency is all about increasing. Especially here, I have to look back at this table that shows employees. You believe me that I can't figure it out at all, and I believe my colleagues were watching this table where people in Bosnia and Herzegovina speak, so we have an approved number there for 2020, so we have a number of employees 30.06.2020, and we have a planned number of employees on 31.12.2020, and then we have pluses there, minuses per month, and we have a number of employees of 31.12.2021. A completely unclear table, a completely unclear table in which we do not know from that table what number of employees were in the joint institutions of 31.12.2020. We, I don't see, you tell me it's 23,000 and I don't know what number it's going to be, and you'll see, this way we only know how much it was 30.06.2020. Nevertheless, we have the re-planning of new employment in the institutions, we have a plan to hire new people in the BiH Parliament, 15 people, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 35 people, at the Regulatory Agency for Communications 10, at the Directorate for indirect taxation 133, at the Border Police 100. I'm going to tell the Department of Direct and Border Police and that there's an excuse since at work, both for the purpose and for the work of these agencies. I'm talking about the Directorate of Direct and Border Police. Furthermore, in this budget we have a rise in costs, i.e. these purchases of equipment. And there they are, significant funds are being allocated again for the purchase of cars. The Directorate for indirect taxation stands out a million and 200 thousand for car purchase, at the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers 360.000, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 450 thousand, or for the purchase of nine vehicles, in the BiH Presidency 635 thousand marks for the purchase of nine vehicles, at the Ministry of Finance and Treasury 190 000, does not say how many vehicles, at the Regulatory Agency for Car Purchase, and in Parliament, we re-deploy this half a million for the purchase of the vehicle. At first I said the question is whether all these expenditures are justified, whether all these costs are justified and whether it makes sense that in the year in which, we will probably have negative indicators or be some mild recovery in relation to the relationship, and it is not difficult to be a mild recovery compared to last year when it was very, very bad. I think this conclusion of the budget has shown one insensitivity of the institutions of these joint institutions to the real state and economic movements in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what I have to say at the end, I was probably boring you last year with this part of the budget, or budget reserves for the recovery of economic damage, and I see that this year there is no part of it, there is no recovery or funds for the recovery of economic damage, but this year, funds are provided for the fight against the COVID pandemic, is there, in the amount of 17 million and 300,000. The question is, it will go again on the basis of the Council of Ministers' approval of the funds. If we know that last year that current reserve was meant for the recovery of economic damage, it seems to me that 13 million went to health care facilities, 10 million were returned to entities and Brcko District and something, it seems to me that two million were given to the Ministry of Civil Affairs for the purchase of vaccines, that budget reserve was spent on 29.12. Until then, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina were standing in the budget and were not spent. I am also afraid that these funds that are intended to fight the COVID pandemic, the COVID pandemic, will also be spent at the end of the year, will be returned to the budgets of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH and Brcko District. The question arises why we took them at all and why we put them in the budget at all and we didn't, and they won't be spent until the end of this year. Here, let me finish, SDS, PDP and DNS will not support this Budget Proposal. Of course, we are the opposition party, not to be expected either, but there was room to cut these costs, there was room for reasonable and realistic consideration of the situation in the collection of revenue and on this basis could also have been shown far more drastically in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10497	Thank you. Representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10498	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 36 Well, here, let me say a few words. The SNSD Club will support the Budget Proposal, bearing in mind that it is, above all, relevant to those basic needs of institution financing and debt service. And in that sense, uh, of course each of us has its own personal ideas where it could be more or less, I think it reflects the current reality, especially when some big key things are at stake. However, one small, perhaps, thing got my attention, so I'm going to say a few words, uh, because there's been a slight decrease in that item, so I'm saying, knowing that we're not in a situation right now very likely to go to some significant salary increase, the question is whether certain categories that are financed from this budget have even the need to increase. Some probably do, but some probably don't, so as far as the salary is concerned, I really think we'll have a chance to talk about it in some future period, especially when it comes to, especially in light of this conclusion adopted by the Presidency, which it referred to the Council of Ministers. However, as I said, I will say just a few words about one of these items that are financed, regarding the specific Civil Aviation Directorate, because here they are on the gross salary item and the fee has been reduced a little bit. However, it is an institution that is constantly facing the outflow of high-quality professional staff and is present, of course, due to reduced funding. The problem of engaging in quality and professional personnel precisely because of inadequate incomes which can put us in a real problem that the institution cannot fulfil its obligations and be, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is declared a state that is unable to guarantee civil aviation safety above this territory. If there is a possibility of the Ministry of Finance, I would really like to suggest to us whether it is possible to redistribute between certain items to try to influence this item. If not, I really hope that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Resort Ministry, which is part of the Directorate, means the Ministry of Transport and Communications, will indeed come up with an adequate solution for this institution in the coming period, because their actual work and functioning depend on other things, and their actual work and financing, given the high-quality and specific frame, depends heavily on funding. So this application, this one, is addressed in that sense, and whether or not we're going to have room for an amendment, we're going to agree on that later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10499	Thank you, counselor. Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10500	Thank you, Chairman. As a member of the Finance Commission and the budget, therefore, I had the opportunity to hear certain things already on the Commission, I fully agree with what my colleague, Pekić, stated in her presentation. I have repeatedly said there is money in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it depends on how they are deployed, and also from, for the entire term of office, I am actually witnessing a non-domestic attitude towards budgets and public money. So, this budget also shows that such a trend continues, because I would really like to know the structure of the planned jobs, except, therefore, the Border Police and these other institutions that we all agreed on, therefore, that they should increase the number of employees, because also as a member of the Commission for Budget and Finance, I also testify and the fact that, let's say, for years, the Office for Discussing 37 complaints is crying out for employees, and that it can't do that, so we have disproportionateness in certain offices in the number and solving of cases, i.e. submitted cases and disproportionately in the number of employees, so we have, say, reports that internal auditors are missing. So these are all things that should improve and control the spending of budget money, so the lack of staff is also evident in that segment. So I also think that this could be more cost-effective here, and it seems to me that we have been looking forward to that most severe pandemic coming through, so that we may already be a little bit dilated in 2021, even though last year, in the most severe course of the pandemic, we had a car purchase for the College of the Parliamentary Assembly. So I can also say that Club Our Party – The Independent Block will not vote for this budget, we will, of course, try to resolve certain things, if possible, with amendments, but if there was one non-domestic, I could say, boast about the budgets, that is, one phenomenon that is not changing. Because here's the example: I wanted to get information on how, for example, they were spending their resources on representation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last year when the pandemic was the hardest and when we were really all supposed to be saving. First of all, the first answer is in accordance with the applicable acts, rules, etc. The amount is so much, and then it's said how much it's spent. Yeah, it's just work to break those acts, but if you could spend 50 grand, that doesn't mean you should have spent it. So I just wanted to see how state institutions are dealing with, say, this segment, which is absolutely, therefore, optional, unnecessary or necessary to some extent. So with that in mind, as I said, we will not support this Budget Proposal and I hope that we will have some interventions in terms of household relation to some amendment action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10501	Thank you. Representative Dragan Mektić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10502	Thank you, President. I'll just give a few, say, general comments on this Budget, something more about it was said by my colleague from the Miro Pekić Club and more specifically about it, and I just wanted to say that this budget is trying to say that honey and milk are flowing in this country. There are no problems in this country, no problem has been specifically focused on the economic crisis, as the budget increase index suggests compared to last year. Therefore, this budget does not try and in what way it affects the economic crisis and the economic downturn we are in, is not trying to solve problems, is it seriously not trying to solve problems, so let me say, in the health area, all before I think about this pandemic that has been the consequences of the pandemic, and possibly what can be expected in the future, is there an Indian soy, it's talking about some delta soy, it's not trying to solve and it's affecting the reduction of the consequences of this migrant crisis, which is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've seen this through multiple times, and I don't know how many times, so we've heard from the Border Police or more specifically the Director of the Border Police, who says he's missing two and a half thousand border police officers so he can manage this crisis and protect the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina from this migrant crisis. Which means that basically this budget is only pretending to respond to us here, to suit us here, and absolutely not to the citizens and to affect the improvement of the situation, standards, security and other areas related to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also says this, and the fact that a budget is now being made when a third decision on temporary financing has already been made, and what I know may not, there is no point in talking about this budget now and how much it is needed now, except for me, to realise additional employment in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And by following the gross salary index of these agencies and what counterpart Mira Pekić was saying, I see that serious increases in the administration at the state level are planned, a serious increase in the administration at the state level, and what this once again says is the purpose of this budget itself to meet some of the needs of the institutions themselves in, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially when we see the funds planned for capital expenditure, I assume that this is the most motivated by certain tenders, and we know what is done when it comes to tenders and public procurement, that this is a key source of crime and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wanted to do this, I noticed one special fact, I'm going to say it, and that's what I'm going to end up with, when I'm looking at the budget reserve spending there, then she says to someone that's been given 20,000 marks for Christmas, I don't know either for Christmas, or it's for Christmas, or I'm for both Christmases and Bayrams, etc. If it's for one then what's not for another, which isn't for Bajram, which isn't for already I don't know what and what isn't in the budget here, uh, that means, what's going through the current reserve? Let the citizens know, my brother, we celebrate, we celebrate, we welcome, we send, we baptize, we marry, I don't know what he's doing, I don't know what he's doing, I don't know what he's spending money on here and the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here would be some of my general qualifications, general observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10503	Thank you. Representative Nenad Nešić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10504	Thank you. Well, what to say about this budget except it's rude and inappropriate to the economic situation we're in right now. We are increasing the budget to employ party activists, the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I believe that many of you remember here, and I remember, even though I was small, she had a much smaller administration than Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has. The number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions reaches a record of 23,529 employees. Obviously, you who are currently ruling are in a panic over next year's election, so by hiring in the administration, try to buy and provide support in the elections. According to what I see is that the planned employment of 15 new people in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, where 230 people are currently employed, more than 170 are employed in the administration, this shows that four employees are coming to one MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10505	I'm asking the representative not to interfere with the debate. Here you go, counsel. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10506	Thank you. In Parliament, which adopted five laws in a year, and held 22 days in three years. I think this is really a shame, and I don't know why we need these new 15 people, and we're left with the possibility of hiring more people besides these 15 people if it's necessary. I would like to point out that in Northern Macedonia and Slovenia, one secretary leads three or four committees, and at this point in time we have at least three, four people employed, and this is all about the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, I would like to point out once again, is rude given the economic situation in which the country is located. 130 new people you planned at the border police. I ask the question, why new employment when there was no new employment in the wake of the migrant crisis, and now that the migrant crisis has fallen somehow, i.e. We don't have such an inflow of migrants? Also, I have seen here that you are planning 300 new members of the Armed Forces and a question for Mr. Chairman Council of Ministers – Isn't Republika Srpska's policy to reduce the number of members of the Armed Forces and is this your deviation from the policies you promote in Republika Srpska? So you're talking one thing and the other you're working the other. I think it was much better that with this money we improved the status of people who work in the Armed Forces, who are already employed and who have a pretty bad status, or are not adequately paid and need to fix their standard. The only good side of the budget is that no new funds have been planned to buy Mr. Radišić's building for 100 million converting marks, and that the Directorate for indirect taxation has 37 million converting marks at its disposal. I must stress that we will keep an eye on whether you will approve these missing 63 million funds from the budget reserve by a decision of the Council of Ministers. In such a crisis and a difficult economic situation at a time when there are not enough vaccines, when we are the poorest European country, 16 institutions have an increase in the budget by 23 million and on behalf of expenditure on materials and services. The expenditure on salaries and fees is increasing by 10.5 million and amounts to 579 million or 57% of the budget. Current expenditures are totaled by 40 million converting marks. Contracting services are increasing by 6 million converting marks or 18%. Capital expenditures are 51 million and are up by 10 million. The biggest increase is in the item of supply of equipment 7.5 million. I wonder if all that equipment is really needed right now. The Bureau's budget is increasing by 1.6 million or 22%. Imagine that this was done by Mladen Ivanić as a member of the presidency, increasing the budget by 1.6 million. Ivanic's budget for four years was the same as Mr Radmanović's in 2014. Dear gentlemen, you obviously don't know, you don't understand the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you show waste and you don't care because you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10507	Thank you very much for your representative. Representative Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10508	Thank you, Chairman. There's no other way, uh, I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club, please. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10509	I'm giving a half-hour break, but here's a proposal extra, since we planned to take this daily break of an hour, here after the break from you we're going to go there, so we'll connect, now I'm giving a full hour break. So this is where we are at 2:45. Half an hour at the request of this and we'll put together an hour's lunch break. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues at the moment we have a quorum for continuing the session, so please continue. Debate, Agent Zukan Helez. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10511	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Here's to calm them down, a little attention, huh? Well, here we finally got this budget on the bench, the truth that this big document we got late and we had a little time to study it all. However, it seems to me that we had nothing new or learned because this budget is similar to that of our people, as the egg would say. My first grudge, like every year, now I feel like it's snowing out there, that December is a pre-empty mood, because then the budget was to be adopted and it's never going to be clear to me why we're waiting this long and we're still adopting the same as it was last year, we're just changing, whether, the dates and, if necessary, the ministry needs to hire more party people. As far as the underlying objections are concerned, it is certainly an increased pay and income item, both in the Presidency and in Parliament. I didn't see that any member of the Bureau took any vital interest, everyone agreed to have more double for travel expenses than last time, everyone agreed to have a salary increase, or they would receive someone there in their cabinets and there was no disagreement. As for Parliament, I see here that you planned to hire new people. I would have one suggestion, maybe it's a little unusual, about I know that there will be party people, those who have worked on elections or family and friends, so I suggest at least five young people to receive from poor families, from families where no one works, no members, children who have finished hard, whether, colleges, not difficult to deal with knowledge and learning, but as far as the material resources needed to complete those colleges. And here's to how you, if you have the concept of power, it's to be five Bošnjak, five Srbin and five Hrvat. And that, and to form a commission, is it, which would not be paid, that we should read these children from the very families that need that child to work. This would, uh, show some solidarity, compassion with these people, and we would show young people that it's not just a story to hire party people, to read a little bit on this social basis, to hire these people. I see here there's that pretty, big figure for public procurement, it's usually given to the same firms, companies that are close to party headquarters or individuals from the top of the parties, or who has a share in the capital of these companies, and if you carefully read who gets these tenders, they're always the same companies. It's impossible that those in competition can't figure out what they're supposed to do and then 41 to get them. But, so, it's ordinary, uh, it's actually a classic example of corruption and crime, so this budget serves the ruling structures to pay salaries, admit new workers, to get their firms tenders. And it's from year to year every time, every time, uh, same rule. I'm sorry there's no salary increase in the budget for soldiers, ordinary soldiers, they have very small salaries, in conversation with them it's about seven hundred and some marks, along with some small, whether, small additions, which are not large, people on the ground, etc. Police officers, border police officers, I asked a question, they have very small incomes, and they are asked and have great tasks to guard the border of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in these times of migrant crisis and the inflow of migrants from third countries. What makes me happy is that it increases or employs a number of border police officers and that's something that's good for the state and will certainly reduce the inflow of migrants into this country. This, look, is where the eternal dilemma is put, whether to vote for the budget or not. If you don't vote then you're basically against the state, it's hard to adopt the budget, and if you vote, then you're an accomplice to everything I've been up to. So, you're giving these companies that have been making budget funds for years, you're giving an alibi for hiring new party people. And finally, I'm sorry, I thought there would be one modest 20,000 marks here to form an expert group outside Parliament to make an operational plan to stop young people from leaving this country and how to propose how to improve the birth and birth in this country. That's what I said several times, asked questions, suggested what we should do, even had a promise from the Council of Ministers that something might happen, uh, telling me that they had a strategy. All strategies exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this strategy is far from an operational plan. So I see that it's gone and no one thinks about it and stays the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10512	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the programme plan and the financial plan for 2021, applicant: BiH Radio-Television Management Board, issue: 01,02-50-18-977/21, since 1606.2021. After the last session did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting, the House College as a committee failed to reach agreement on these materials. The College report you received, the debate was closed, remains to be later declared in the second round of voting on the Programme Plan and the BHRT Financial Plan for 2021. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, number: 01,02-50-18-1218/21, of 14.06.2021. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10515	I thank the Honorable Chairman. After reading the first page of the introduction of this report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, and comparing the data on the number of sessions held, the number of items discussed on the agenda, the number of proposed laws and decisions taken with data from the 2019 Work Report, then I was surprised that the data from both reports could be identical, i.e. with each letter and each number. In order to determine whether it was a coincidence and a 100% coincidence, which I suspected, I checked on the official Council of Ministers' website information on held sessions. My suspicion was established, I found that it was not a true match of the data, because on the official page of the Council of Ministers, under statements from the sitting, I counted all the meetings and concluded that the Council of Ministers held 23 regular sessions and 40 extraordinary sessions during the reporting period, not as reported in the Report that they held a total of 36 sessions, of which 17 extraordinary sessions. Therefore, this recital in recital 2 provides a complete misrepresentation of all data, on the number of sessions held, on the number of points of the agenda considered, on the number of proposed laws, the number of decisions taken, the rules adopted, etc. So it's all listed wrong here. Although I am not surprised by this haughtiness, negligence and irresponsibility of members of the Council of Ministers, I am still surprised, I am really surprised and I cannot believe that none of the members of the Council of Ministers have noticed this mistake, and I therefore believe that none of them have even read the Introduction of this Report, i.e. The first page of the Introduction of the Report adopted at the 39th session, held on 11th06.2021. I could understand if that happened, for example. On page 292, it is near the end of this report, so that they could not see it, one of the errors in the Report, but that no one reads the beginning of the Report and the basic data that are wrong, it really shows the indolence of this Council of Ministers' summonment. And then the question arises -- how can we even trust this Council of Ministers' meeting when they show extreme irresponsibility and lack of interest in such formal matters? In this way, at least with me, my mistrust with the members of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers as the collective executive body of this assembly is being called by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Such a formal approach calls into question the credibility and truthfulness of the reporting process and is a reader, i.e. the one who reads the reports, forced to be extremely careful to verify and compare data if he wishes to carry out a reliable and objective evaluation of the work of the Council of Ministers for the reporting period. To share, it is clear to me that such reports are written only to satisfy the form, in which there is no essence, with a stylish figure of exaggeration where too many words have been chosen in a noble, even in my opinion, and in an abnormal proportion, given 43 of our existing reality and the overall ambience in last year's, and the overall ambience of last year's life in our country. Thus, the stylelist of this report states that the primary objective of the BiH Council of Ministers in 2020 was to speed up the implementation of the necessary legislative, socio-economic and social reforms, which are primarily aimed at addressing daily life issues of citizens, and to offer responsible management, rule of law, security and prosperity. In view of the Council of Ministers' 2020 objectives, we can safely say that none of the objectives set has been realised, neither visiblely improved nor done. What did the Council of Ministers do to address everyday life issues of citizens in 2020? Well, we all know, we all know it's nothing, and nothing is specifically listed in this report. What has the Council of Ministers done and what concrete activities have been led to offer response and responsible management? Did the Council of Ministers manage the migrant crisis responsibly in 2020? The answer is familiar to all of us, it's not. The Council of Ministers did nothing concrete last year to manage the migrant crisis and control the migrant route through Bosnia and Herzegovina. The result of the irresponsible management of the migrant crisis best illustrates the situation when competent authorities and agencies allowed the burning of the Lipa tent settlement near Bihac at the end of last year, followed by a humanitarian disaster of great proportions. What has the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry done so far to sanction this generally visible negligence and irresponsibility of competent authorities and agencies? The answer is nothing. Based on these facts, we can conclude that the Council of Ministers did not offer responsible management in 2020, although they stated in this report that this was their primary objective. In this report, the Council of Ministers states that in 2020 the rule of law was their priority, it was only a declarative priority, but of reform activities in the justice sector, the BiH Justice Ministry did nothing significant. They also reported in their part of this report, on the 54th page, that the deviations achieved from the planned consequences of political disagreement on the need to adopt certain regulations, strategies and agreements in the justice sector and the public administration sector, which means that the existing government and parliamentary majority have no political will, nor responsibility to significantly initiate reform processes in the justice sector for the equal availability of justice and rule of law, in the same way to all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, according to this report, the Council of Ministers for 2020 had the ambition to offer prosperity, they said. Since prosperity marks the well-being and optimistic period of society during the accelerated economic growth phase, we know that last year could not possibly have been prosperous due to the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and the pandemic economic crisis, but rather the gross domestic product has been reduced by 4.3% compared to 2019, exports are lower by 8.5%, imports are lower by 13.4%. Due to the pandemic of 10,135 people lost their jobs according to statistics, business statistics show that industrial production decreased by 6.1%. Tourism and transport sectors suffer the greatest damage, and pandemic measures have caused a decrease in business and up to 70% compared to the pre-pandemic period. It is interesting that the Council of Ministers in this Report notes that the most important task in 2020 was to find timely and adequate measures that will primarily preserve the lives and health of our citizens and also preserve the real sector and employment. That is, that is, this was supposed to be the Council of Ministers' most important task in 2020, when the waves of the COVID-19 pandemic were rising, but the Council of Ministers' task was nowhere near met. The timely and adequate measures, listed by the Council of Ministers in this Report, are lagging behind. The Council of Ministers did not launch all the activities to obtain the vaccine in due time, they misjudged all the risks of relying on the Kovaks mechanism and our country was the last in this part of the world to immunise the population. The Council of Ministers did not preserve the lives and 44 health of the population, as they said it was their most important task, as data on the number of infected and the number of deceased show that we are the first state in Southeast Europe by number of deaths compared to the number of infected. The total number of people infected in Bosnia and Herzegovina is 205,047, and the number of deaths is 9,667, which accounts for a percentage of 4.7% of those killed compared to the number of infected and places us first in death in Southeast Europe. Another country by mortality is Bulgaria with a percentage of 4.19%, followed by Northern Macedonia 3.39%, Greece 3.02%, Romania 2.77%, Moldova 2.38%, etc. Lastly, Serbia with 0.95% and lastly Turkey with 0.88% deaths compared to the number of infected. Unfortunately for us, these are the facts that show The involvement and absence of timely coordination by the Council of Ministers towards competent institutions and agencies for joint direct procurement of vaccines at national level. [[representative is warned on time]] Also the overall weakness, the lack of equipment and the lack of coordination in the health sector in this pandemic situation. [[representative is warned on time]] Because of everything I've stated, it's called the bad results of the Council of Ministers' work in 2020, and for the humiliation of the state and all our citizens because of the fact that the World Health Organization put Bosnia and Herzegovina on the list. I propose the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers [[representative is warned on time]] BiH is collectively taking responsibility and all members resign to the post they are performing. [[representative is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10516	Thank you, too. zastupnica Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10517	I'm also in preparation for this discussion, of course, first referred to this second page of the report, but now I'm shocked, so by the fact that we don't actually have the true information regarding the Council of Ministers' activity. However, I am shocked enough by the activity, or inactivity of the Council of Ministers. This has only shown, in fact, how our Council of Ministers works and, therefore, who exercises executive authority, that people give us, meaning, completely wrong data on, in the Introduction, or on the second page of the complete report. When I announced on the social network that there was a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, so the comments came, I think – listen to the report on the work. What work? I fully agree with that, and I believe that the Council of Ministers has in no way responded to any of these crises that we have had, which, behold, my colleague Emrić also mentioned. So, neither the economic crisis, nor the health crisis, nor the migrant crisis. We hear here all the time that the ministries have taken this or that, the chairman of the Council of Ministers assures us that they are doing great, that they have achieved certain results, that they have something to be proud of. But everything and that this data is true here from the introduction of this report, you can see that that's not true. Here, just this first point that the Council has established three draft laws in a year's time, three draft laws. And we're talking about the European path, we're talking about the obligation to meet the conditions of entry into, to get candidate status and to join the European Union, we're talking about the rule of law in this country. We know what our rules are, we know how many rules there are to be amended and done, and then in a year from the Council of Ministers, we get three proposals from 45 laws, and at the same time, MPs are respected that their draft laws are not systematic and are rejected under that pretext. So, of course our club won't vote for this report, because I really can't vote to adopt any ministry's report. I cannot adopt the Report when it comes to the Ministry of Civil Affairs because the vaccines are not obtained in time and in sufficient numbers, I cannot adopt a report by the Ministry of Justice on only a few pages, and in the table view of many responses – not to ask whether certain laws are addressed to the Council of Ministers' procedure or even said that some have been done and have not been addressed because the conditions for adoption have not been met. Well, I guess it's their obligation to instruct, and then we'll see who's in or out of some laws. But here's the thing. We've heard more than once that the chairman of the Council of Ministers says they don't even come into the process of laws that won't go forward, which are known to not get a majority. So most of them don't exist, and that's what my colleague Emrić said. I cannot agree with the Council of Ministers' report because of the fact that, yes, I am, therefore, behind my claim that certain processes by certain ministers are being obstructed, that our regulations are being lost somewhere in some procedure, so for two years we don't know what is the matter with a certain regulation. I cannot agree that despite the fact that MPs appear here, we are told that this is not about obstructions, that they must be given opinions of this or that, etc. So in any case, I mean, when it comes to the migrant crisis, there's really nothing left to say anymore, I'm glad that this is a little bit more elaborated by my colleague Emrić, but all in all, starting with the fact that these initial data are not accurate and that when I take this table view, we actually see how much activity the Council of Ministers was. We as a club certainly won't support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10518	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Consolidated annual report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-11103/21, dated 28.05.2021. The College designated the Commission for Finance and Budget as responsible for considering that report. The board gave their opinion. Report accepted. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2019, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-11104/21, dated 28.05.2021. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10522	Thank you. Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I think it is worth saying, pointing out a few details, I would say, from this report on the work of the office to discuss complaints because it is a matter of public procurement, and also complaints about these public procurements, a common topic and the public and us here in Parliament and one of the crucial topics that we often discuss. When I read this report carefully, I believe, uh, that you've been up and down, but I'm going to point out a few figures that will point to certain anomalies in the structure of the Board of Appeals, including in its work. Every year, the Board of Appeals has more and more work to do, more and more applications are coming in, or objects to work, and these items have been deployed like this. So, the Sarajevo Central in 2020 had 907 items, the Banja Luka branch had 887 items, and the Mostar branch had 2,074 items. So, the Mostar branch has approximately more than the Central in Sarajevo and the University of Mostar(?) Together. In this regard, in Sarajevo 13 employees, in Banja Luka, 6 employees, in Mostar 7 employees. So 70 items are coming to Sarajevo in the course of the year, in Banja Luka 147 and in Mostar 300. This anomaly is systemic, it's hidden in law. So, the law defines the Central in Sarajevo as resolving complaints where the value of public procurement is over 800,000 marks and those complaints concerning public procurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. A branch in Banja Luka handles items worth under 800,000 marks from Republika Srpska's territory, and a branch in Mostar solves such items from the Federation's territory. And these numbers are a question of the relationship and size of individual entities, even in general. This anomaly, which is a problem in the work of the Board of Appeals, could possibly be solved by some legal repairs which, in my opinion, is not particularly happy. It's very difficult to carry out some kind of legal changes that would balance this. It is far simpler and more practical to solve this through a number of employees who could at least some 47 balance the volume of work in individual, central and individual branches. Practically, in my opinion, the Mostar branch should be more employed so that people can make optimal and timely complaints. The figures and percentages shown in this report do not show this problem, so all three, both the Central and both branches have about the same percentage of solved cases, but since I have long been following the work of the Board of Appeal can tell you that the Office for the Review of Appeals is one of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where, simply, there must be a lot of work, and even overtime. I have prepared one conclusion about this towards the Council of Ministers, but I think the conclusions we send very often towards the Council of Ministers are not the best way to solve operational problems or problems that we here as representatives see in individual institutions. I'm glad to have the measuring and relevant representatives of the Council of Ministers sitting here so far, what I'm saying, I believe, will have far more echoes than any conclusion. So, my proposal, to add one more thing, so in the 2021 budget, which we were just considering, in the Board of Appeal, there was no increase in the number of employees, that number was 33, and in 2021, the same as it was at the end of 2020. And even in the Office's demands to consider complaints to the Council of Ministers, there was no demand for a certain increase in budgetary resources. I guess the reason for that is part of that transition year. You know very well that in this year, the mandate of the old members of the Board of Appeals has expired, that we have had a tender, that we have appointed new people, a part of the new people in the Office to consider complaints, so it is now an institution with a new five-year mandate of people in... Therefore, my appeal to the Council of Ministers, and in cooperation with the Office of Appeals, I will ask that they do this actively, to ensure the necessary funds in the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, even in this 2021, not much, in order to further strengthen the Office of Appeals in Mostar, so that this imbalance in the number of cases, both absolute and relative, is somewhat smaller and that this Office of Review of Appeal could optimally, in good time, be very important to deal with the tasks that are in his jurisdiction. I think it's possible, because, now, to start the story of increasing the number of employees and procedures, it's something that goes into the last quarter of this year, it's a small amount of funding in this year, but it's very important to recognize that it's necessary, that these relationships are the same as I said, and that because of the work of this very important institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's necessary to take care of this, and that it's simple, all figures suggest that all of these things are really as I say they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10523	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current reserve allocated for the recovery of economic damages for the period I-XII 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1219/21, dated 15.06.2021. The College appointed the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development and the Committee for Finance and Budget to consider that information. 48 The Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development delivered its opinion. The commission has received knowledge of the Information. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion. The commission has received knowledge of the Information. I'm opening an information debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 16, Ad. 16. Information on the allocation and use of funds of the current reserve for the period I-XII 2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16- 1-1220/21, dated 15.06.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10531	I thank the chairman. Greetings to all present. Just for a little while, I'm not going to repeat what you've already read. We have seen how these young girls of our basketball girls from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina represented us at the European Championship and who have historically achieved it. I will only ask here colleagues and colleagues to support this initiative as my colleagues supported yesterday at the Committee of Budgets when they unanimously, uh, supported this initiative of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10532	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. 51 We move to point 22, Ad. 22. Consideration of the representative's initiative from the SDA Club which is asked by the Regulatory Agency for Communications to, within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative, issue a public service order to allow commercial media in the regions of Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, where there is a MUX A entry of controversial TV channels into the same network (as it has been temporarily done with TV K3 from Prnjavor) or to allow damaged TV stations to temporarily at the locations of Kozar, Trebevic and Majević on their cost to include DVT transmitters with the temporary use of spectrum from MUX C or D, given that this frequency spectrum is currently available, until the invigoration of these MUXs, with their obligation to shut them down when they are brought into service by one of these MUXs, and that within 45 days of the adoption of the report of the 25th Parliament's report of 23.25. The House College has appointed the Committee for Transport and Communications to consider this initiative. The Committee delivered its opinion, supported a modified initiative which now says to be requested by the Communications Regulatory Agency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport and public broadcasters to implement the following and inform the House of Representatives within 30 days of the adoption of this initiative. The Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Regulatory Agency for Communications and Public TV Services BHRT and RTRS are tasked to approve the entry of MUX by 30 July 2021 at the latest to all commercial TV stations in the digital areas of Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar. This applies exclusively to TV stations that have been issued by the RAC to shut down analogue transmitters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the responsibility of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency to suspend tenders for MUX C and MUX D because it is the same as the adopted Transition Strategy from analogue to digital broadcasting, which has been decidently determined that they can call it six months after the analogue signal has been shut down. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with opening a tender for the second and third phases of digitisation as soon as possible. I'm opening an initiative debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point 23, Ad. 23. Review of Predrag Kojović's parliamentary initiative, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut, which is ordered by the BiH Council of Ministers, to submit to the legislative procedure a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will allow for the stay of digital nomads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the number: 01-50-1364/21, from 06.07.20121.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10539	Thank you, Chairman. I made this question a point in the last term, uh, and then Mr. Mektić was a minister, and I remember we came across really one totally positive approach where the huge attempts were, so this is being reduced to some extent. And unfortunately, uh, it's, I don't know why, either. I see the Police Body Coordination Directorate has interfered in a way that is truly inappropriate and costing this country. I have also tried to get answers on numerous occasions, which is why whenever a meeting of the Parliament's Colleges is held, there are so many police officers in the Parliament building, in front of these halls, cannot be passed from them, from which members of the National Parliament's College are afraid of building Parliament. I'm terribly irritated by those car columns. There's no point in that, there's no need, and a terrible lot of money costs. Each country, and my experience is also less democratic, the less transparent the country is, the less arranged it is, the more these rotations on the streets, the more these security guards, etc., means every regulated country is being evaluated and then, why only the highest officials, the head of government, the head of state, the ministers dealing with certain areas of security or the foreign policy area, and that's that. Everyone else gets protection based on an assessment. At times, the deputy minister may have great protection if the competent services assess that, in his or her case, at a given time, it is justified. But according to automation, giving this kind of protection to every minister, to every deputy minister, to every member of the College and to one and the other home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is nothing more than an obsess. And it's terrible to see, and you all know it from practice, often these police officers who are trained, uh, for police work, 54 their dignity is being violated because, uh, officials are using them domestically to carry bags, to add stuff from shelves to supermarkets. This is, therefore, a full use of privileges that cost tremendously and violates the dignity of police officers who would be much more useful in jobs where they are really needed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the Club Our Party – The Independent Brock will support this initiative, and what I hope is that the Council of Ministers will do something about it, not comply with this delay by the Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10540	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10541	I thank the chairman. We can approach this subject in two ways, one is populist, and obviously we've all learned it right, and the other is rational, and fellow Arnaut is part of his discussion, most of it dedicated to this very rational approach, which I support. I am sure there are ministers in the Council of Ministers whose picture they would take, doing a survey on the streets of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the level of recognition of the minister would be less than 3% or more. The amount of activity that some ministers have had is also such that people haven't actually heard that these ministers exist, therefore there's no threat to them, is there, because they don't do anything, they haven't had a fight with anyone, they don't even have to bother anyone or anything else, so it's one of the arguments for this rational approach that's being advocated, let's just make security assessments that are usually done, so someone who isn't on that list if there's a security assessment can get, whether, protection of the state, while there's no need for us to make this circus. I, of course, will support this. And when it comes to the dignity of police officers involved in these jobs, since I know a lot of these people, I've been here and in this building for a relatively long time, so you meet these people. All I'm saying is that it's an individual thing for those who are protected. You have wonderful people I, say, disagree politically with, that right now you don't think I'm talking about people politically close to me, so wonderful people in terms of relationships with these people, while you have those who have understood police escorts as domestic servants, people who will pay bills, go to a store, etc. It's a special segment of this story, but I think what fellow Mektić, uh, said was the essence of getting it down to one rational level. Who needs protection, of course, that the state needs to protect him, but this isn't a police state and it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10542	Thank you very much. Representative Sanja Vulić, debate. You have the word of counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10543	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Well, I have to say, it sounds incredible, but it's a good part of us agreeing with this initiative, but I think it needs to be expanded, because it's not just ministers who in some way abuse all these privileges, we have MPs here and here who use this privilege of protection. I asked the MP's question to the Police Body Coordination Directorate and left without an answer – why do individuals have the right to use escorts and official vehicles? I remind you that there are 42 political party presidents here, we also have Nenad Nešić, we have Nermin Nikšić, I did not see that they have the right to use an official escort vehicle, while individuals have the right to do so. No matter how much we like each other, and how much we don't like each other, and that's not an obligation at all, is it, in this House, but also how it's an obligation to know that we're all equal and that we all have equal rights, obviously individuals give some greater rights because they like them more and more because they think they're bigger party presidents than others. I remind you that we are all equal and that individuals do not have special rights and privileges for which certain people give them the rights and privileges to have an official vehicle with an escort without any explanation of whether they are protected and under what reasons protected persons. So we need to clean our house first, and then we need to deal with ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10544	Thank you very much. Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10545	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't know who Mrs. Vulić was talking about, and it doesn't matter, but the whole point of the story is, if we're going to talk seriously about this subject, if someone who doesn't have automatism protection, and by automated, has exactly prescribed, means, ministers and deputies, members of the College, president of the court, chief prosecutor, members of the Bureau, of course, and possibly a couple more if I forgot. Anyone else... anyone else can get protection if there's a threat assessment and if there's been an assessment in the case of any of us out of 42, I'd really like to believe that it was done on the basis of a professional assessment, but then those are things that we shouldn't be getting into. It's a problem for me that 25 people have on the basis of a function, here's how Mr. Magazinović says exactly, 3% would not be their recognition. We also have this and I forgot to mention it in the last discussion, a situation where a person who gets from automation gets, gives up and there are a lot of them, especially in colleges of both homes. And I think Mr. Bosić at the beginning of last term gave up that protection, but he was informed in the meantime that there was an increase in his risk assessment and his protection was then, I don't know if he was forced, but he was certainly suggested to accept it. So if we have such situations, these are things when and trust me if that's how it works to assess a person's risk, we'll have a much smaller and much cheaper system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10546	Representative Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong allegation. You have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10547	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Not to be unsaid, it's specifically about Mr. Šarović. He's the president of the SDS, but he's an MP like all of us, if he's right, so here's a colleague Arnaut, then I'm right, and then all of us sitting here have the right to have an official 56 vehicles, come on, it's an official vehicle, it's the latest one, now it's replaced by a more old passport, now it's new, blinkers and everything else. I don't argue, maybe he has the right to do it, but someone can explain to us on what basis he has the right to do it. I remind you, in this House we are all equal, like it or not, and it is clearly defined which privileges you have, you as members of the College, which are the privileges of ministers, which are the privileges of members of the Presidency and I must remind you, one positive example, and that is Minister Vojin Mitrović who gave up these privileges. We all play some faces, some untouchable personalities, we think those expensive vehicles, the blinkers and the security guards will keep us from something, I don't know what they're keeping us from, who they're keeping us from. Of the people we live with every day, it's unacceptable for me, and I have to admit that I didn't see Mr. Šarović in my town for the first time with those blinkers, and it's really unacceptable and unwarranted for me. But here, somewhere I appreciate that this director, the directorate, will come forward and say why, maybe he knows something I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10548	Representative Dragan Mektić is breaking up. You have the word, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10549	Thank you, President. I really didn't think with this initiative or this proposal, I was just going to challenge some controversy, and not especially some controversy that we would be discussing here about the decision itself or what it is, what it's about, and how it's done. I've actually seen all kinds of cases, I've had a chance to see when the shopping center has physical security in the cabin bringing in a minister, I don't know, pants, shirt, so it fits smaller, bigger, he's eating ten shirts and then he's wearing his, his, his, his purse, his bags with clothes and stuff with both hands. Look, I just wanted it to be done in one extremely professional way, if it's evaluated for someone or belongs to the law of security, and logically and there are mandatory people who need to be protected in one country, then that security only has to do that job and let's not say, now I'm going too deep, to be free two hands to always be around, etc. In case of a sudden and this incident. So, let it be done, I have nothing against it, uh, in a way, but beware that for certain MPs here today there is a need to be threatened with security, here I am, seems to have read to me somewhere on the portal that Miss Sanja Vulić has received today threats because of what she suggested to be formed, at least so published, I apologize if it is some false information etc. but it may happen that, but I know that there are persons who have been given physical protection based on, there is no evaluation and you can't provide, neither do I, belonging to physical protection, as I mentioned the case, the brother, the son, the man who is 40, 50, 60, and based on any application, assessment. If there is any particular danger for such persons, report to the police, if there is any particular threat to report to the police, the prosecution investigates, punishes a person, as ordinary citizens do. Uh, in that sense, I had no intention of challenging now the controversy that we're talking about here, telling me who he is, who he isn't, etc. etc. But beware the Directorate can never give an official vehicle to a protected person and that she drives it in a protected, she, a protected person, has a vehicle of her own, she's accompanied by such a vehicle, follow him on the move, follow him, I don't know either, etc. But if you were to give someone an official vehicle to the Police Coordination Directorate he'd use as his private vehicle, even if there was a police officer sitting there, bringing things in, carrying them, paying bills or whatever's going on, it can't. 57 Another, third thing to tell you, there is no, I don't know that there is, at least in the European state, no country in which all ministers have, are protected personalities. No need, by the nature of his work he does nothing that he can produce, to say, his insecurity, unless personally he does... but I'm about that there's a list of persons that are precisely clear and prescribed to be protected, as it is listed, if for nothing else then he's doing some kind of state and some protocol and some rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10550	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 28, Ad. 28. The approval of acts of the World Postal Federation adopted at the 3rd World Postal Union Extraordinary Congress, held in Geneva in 2019, No: 01.02-21-1243/21, since 18.06.2021. The Foreign Affairs Committee delivered its opinion. The commission has given the opinion that the previous conditions have been met that the House of Representatives give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We've exhausted the agenda of today's session. Do you agree, I'd suggest a break of 15 minutes, do you think it's enough or should take longer? Is 15, 20 minutes enough, that's it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10558	This is the second round, it's not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-07-0.u10559	Oh, yeah, this is the second round, it's not adopted, that's right, this is the second round, yes, it's not adopted. I agree that we did not accept the 2021 Programme and Financial Plan of the Management Board of the RTV of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 11. – Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2020, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-50-18-1218/21, of 14.06.2021. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Emrić. The proposal for a conclusion is, should I read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. Okay, please... _________(?) 61 [[no microphone turned on]]
