ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2665	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you all, opening the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests, chairman and members of the presidency, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, were invited to attend the meeting. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The session is attended by 14 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian and 4 from the Serbian people. delegat Nović is absent for legitimate reasons and does not attend the session. As indicated in your call for a session in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 19th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Dušanka Majkić for the Council of Ministers, BiH Defence Minister Sifet Podžić; delegate Marina Pendeš for BiH Minister for Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Miloš Lučić; delegate Denis Bećirović for the Council of Ministers; delegate Zlatko Miletić for the BiH Council of Ministers Zoran Tegelti and BiH Minister Ankica Gudeljević and delegate Lidija Bradara for the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers have been delivered to the Council of Ministers. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to the Public TV Service of BiH to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to Delegate Dušanki Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2666	Thank you very much. So my delegate question refers to the following, on the '21 calendar. A year of Catholic custody at the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of BiH is a picture of Alojzi Stjepinac, once on the cover of the calendar, and the second time the picture is repeated for February. That 2... looks like this, so this is, as you said, the front page of the calendar, and this is a February picture. The spread of hatred for Srbin in Republika Srpska continues in different ways at the Ministry of Defence and it is neither the first nor the last time, I am sure. After inappropriate and offensive comments on social networks and... in his time by members of the Armed Forces, after Defence Minister Sifet Podžić himself welcomed the Joint Staff's official meeting with the so-called "war salute". The BiH Army, there is also a new incident this time in the office of Catholic Childcare, which is a calendar for '21. He used a photograph of Alojzi Stjepinac, an associate of Ante Pavelić, accused and convicted of war crimes and co-operation with Ustasha, who participated in the mass baptism of Orthodox Srbin and conduct, translation into Catholics, or Hrvat in the territory of Ustasha NDH during World War II. So, the calendar is distributed in depth in all places where representatives of the Croatian people are located, but there are others working there, and Srbin who must, are forced to look at the picture of this... in the calendar. On many, the strangest thing is, is it just the clearest thing, that the calendar doesn't serve the purpose of the calendar, but only for the purpose of the first page's manifestation, means the big picture of Alojzi Stjepinac. So, my question is – What is the goal of putting controversial photos on calendars of Catholic custody at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, is this way contributing to reconciliation among members of various confesions in BiH, and what will the minister do to make these offensive icons present everywhere in the rooms of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces no longer repeat themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2667	Mr. Podžić is not with us, but his deputy, Mr. Krešić, is here, so he will give the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2668	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives, ladies, gentlemen, the Honorable Media. We got this question yesterday, and we really, uh, wanted to give a good and clear answer, so here's the deal, we consulted within the Department of Defense and with self-care, Catholic mentality. First, what is the objective of offensive photographs on the calendars of Catholic mentality at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH? This question, unfortunately, is considered an insult and an insult to every Catholic, including myself. We are very uncomfortable with this question, which is contrary to the BiH Constitution, which guarantees freedom of thought, conscience and faith. Your question is contrary to the basic contract that BiH signed with the svet stolica, in which foreign signatories have committed to respect the recognised principles of separation of faith and state and freedom of faith. It is hard to understand how images and iconography of the blessed or saints, which the Catholic Church officially acknowledged, can be offensive to anyone, especially Cardinal Stjepinac, who, through his priestly life, courageously and resolutely advocated the respect of every person without distinction of nationality and faith, faithful to the Evanđelje, tirelessly condemning crimes against humanity and all other injustices. The National Administration of the Papal Mission Parts in BiH every year prepares and print calendars for all Catholics in BiH. The mention of the Administration of the papal mission parts itself decides on illustrations, which are different each year. Each year, the military order orders according to a predetermined plan a number of calendars for the needs of Catholic believers. The defence ministry and 3 Armed Forces of BiH do not participate in the preparation or printing of the calendars. The military order only divides them to the believers of the Catholics. Two, is this how you contribute to reconciliation among members of various religious confesions in the Armed Forces of BiH? The BiH Defence Ministry and the Armed Forces of BiH have already contributed to international reconciliation and dialogue with their efforts and activities and implementing acts. Sporadic impatience in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH to which you are alluding are, of course, possible in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, as well as in all institutions and levels which are...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2669	A little, hurry up, Mr. Krešić. You've already been a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2670	...I would say, a reflection of the overall state in BiH of political, cultural, social. Under three, very short, what are you going to do to make this offensive iconography present in the rooms of the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces no longer repeat itself? On behalf of all the blessed and holy ones, we will pray to the dear Bog that all learn to respect the freedom of faith and the beliefs of each other and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2671	Thank you, Mr. Krešić. delegatkinja Majkić, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2672	...a completely inappropriate response, I must remind you that jurisdiction over the custody offices is a matter of Orthodox and Catholic, but also of the Office of Military Mufty in the Armed Forces only to the Ministry of Defence and the task of the Minister of Defense is to make sure that these cases no longer occur. It's unreasonable what the minister did, so he joined the deputy in the order of the people, who's here to explain it, it's not working, it's to explain the minister, not the deputy minister. Regardless of the regulations, this is a delicate subject to be declared by the minister, but obviously it was easier this way. Unsatisfactory, the answer is none, and it is a message to the Srbin that they will have to watch in the future everything that is others, other alarms for saints or not to declare them, but to treat them, that they will have to and will be forced to sit in those rooms where such personalities are located.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2673	Thank you. I give my word to the delegate Marina Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2674	Honorable members of the Kolgi, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen. 4 My question was addressed to the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Given the increasing intensity of torture and insults exposed to women in the BiH media area, as well as the large number of reported cases of violence against women and children, what are the exceptions from your ministry talking about, please answer me – What have you done and have you prepared a law or amendments to the law that would punish the perpetrators? The criminal provisions so far seem to have no cure and I think it is very important to increase these criminal measures, because it is only in this way that we can prevent those who commit violence against women and children in families, but also in the media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2675	Mr. Lučić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2676	Dear chairman, members of the College, distinguished delegates, fellow ministers, guests. Provo I would like to stress that the Law on Gender Equality of BiH's Violence on the basis of half is prohibited and penalties for these acts are prescribed. These penalties range from up to 30,000 converting marks, depending on the severity of the work, and penalties are provided for between six months to five years for one who, based on half, commits violence, harassment or sexual harassment, which endangers peace, social health and physical integrity. Also, entity legislation and the legislation of the Brcko District of BiH regulate the area through law on protection against domestic violence and criminal law in accordance with their responsibilities. As for the first part of your question,... tortures and insults exposed to women through the media, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is actively involved in the development of the first recommendation of the GREVIO Committee, the body of the Council of Europe, which is responsible for monitoring and implementing the Istanbul Convention. And with regard to violence through the media, especially in the virtual environment, it will recommend that when it is adopted, it will help the countries signatories of the Istanbul Convention, including BiH to fight more effectively and sanction this type of violence against women, which unfortunately is very present today, especially through the internet, or social networks. I would also like to point out that in certain cases, and on application, the BiH Gender Equality Agency and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees are acting under the Single Rights for receiving and laying down requirements for examining violations of the Law on Gender Equality of BiH. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees through the Gender Equality Agency has since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic co-ordinated work with donors and portental international organisations, which deal with the problems of violence against women and domestic violence. Last year, the minister provided 100,000 converting marks from the BiH institutions' budget and 160,000 KM from the USID-funded project to support safe houses in BiH. Safe houses in BiH have found themselves particularly in a difficult situation caused by the CIVID-19 pandemic because the funds provided by their entity budgets are not enough for sufficient and normal work. Some of the safe houses were closed before closing, these funds provided the continuity of this very important support service to the most vulnerable women victims of domestic violence. Also, pandemics, safe houses could not receive users because they could not respect the prescribed epidemiological measures, unfortunately, the number of cases of violence against women and domestic violence increased dramatically during the pandemic, especially during the lokdown era, when there was an increase in violence cases and over 50% in some municipalities. We have continuously followed the situation and we continue to follow it and deliver recommendations to relevant institutions and protection entities in which protection and support of victims is provided, the processing of perpetrators under the terms of the pandemic. In line with the 5th Istanbul Convention, which BiH ratified seven years ago, we are required to ensure the sufficient number and accessibility of safe houses for all victims of gender-based and family violence. The ministry also launched an initiative to open crisis centres for victims of rape and sexual violence in BiH, which is also an obligation under the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2677	Hurry up, please, with your answer, one minute and a half you've already broken through.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2678	There are currently no such centres in BiH, and I hope that we will find a way to help these victims and provide them with the necessary assistance. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, through the Gender Equality Agency under USAID funding projects, purchased and supplied 48.000 IT equipment. Also, social work centres in the Federation of BiH have signed an agreement and co-operation with the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy worth 71,000 KM for a person, staff in those centres, and related to violence against women and domestic violence. Here I am, sorry, in the Federation of BiH, as you are likely to know, an initiative has been launched to amend the Law on Protection against Family Violence. The initiatives were launched by members of the Safe Network and networks of women NGOs dealing with these issues, and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees provided professional and financial assistance in drawing up a draft of this law, which we know will soon be in parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2679	Thank you. I'm asking the Ministers to take a deeper attempt to stick to the prescribed time. Is delegate Marina Pendeš satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2680	Well, I can't say that I am satisfied with the answer for the simple reason that I believe that the BiH institutions, starting with this Parliament, but of course the BiH Council of Ministers should think about what human rights are and don't need, we don't need the Istanbul Convention to protect women, children and those under torture, and I think safe houses should be made for these bullies, not for women, under number one. And this one, and I don't think it takes an initiative by some NGOs to make changes to the law, the laws need to be changed in the ministries that are responsible for these things. In that sense, thank you for the answer, it's a decadent answer, but I'm not satisfied in terms of essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2681	I give my word to the delegate, Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2682	My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegeltija, and it was specifically formulated in a way that both the Bosnian and international public get a clear answer to the question of what the Council of Ministers has done in this mandate with the aim of the legal 6th ban on the denial of genocide and the judicial verdicts of the highest international courts. I, therefore, am asking Mr Tegelti today as the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, a state full-fledged member of the UN – What has the Council of Ministers done on this issue? The United Nations has established these international courts, international courts have ruled and those judgments must be respected. I recall the establishment of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia by all 15 members of the UN Security Council, including five permanent members of the Security Council, the United States, Russia, France, the United Kingdom and China. I also remind you that the Dayton Peace Agreement contains a provision on the processing of war criminals and the formation of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. So it's not the spirit of Dejton, it's the letter of Dejton, and that's what needs to be said in public. Now, my question is, therefore, for President Tegeltija – How dokle will it violate the decisions of the United Nations courts and not pass that kind of law, as long as it will be against the European Union and the European Parliament in this country? If you gentlemen don't respect the judgments of the highest courts in the world, then who do you even respect in the world today? I think we need to get an answer to that question. Here's three months ago, my colleague and Miletić and I proposed a concrete law, he was shot down here in the House of Peoples. I now expect the BiH Council of Ministers to propose such a law, because it is our international obligation, but it is also a moral and human obligation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2683	You asked a question, Mr. Bećirović,
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2684	Here's the answer I'm expecting right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2685	You've already broken time, it's clear. Mr. Tegeltija is not with us today, you'll get a later answer, probably in writing. I give the word to delegate Zlatko Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2686	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Whoever I'm going to be in the health care of the population, but let me start by saying hello to all my colleagues and colleagues, all the ministers and deputies of the Council of Ministers, to thank them for taking the time today to be with us, and of course our employees from various institutions, media representatives. Since I have a feeling that we're a little bit relaxed about this pandemic again, I'm going to read you a specific question about the current situation in the area. Based on slightly more recent overall indicators in the global struggle with the pandemic COVID-19 British, German and Israeli health services have come up with data on the new COVID-19 virus mutation. Delta variants, which according to the indicators is much more contagious than the current COVID-19 variants, up to 60% with somewhat different symptoms than previous form of headaches, runny nose, sore throats, etc. a with uncertain consequences in the context of the danger to the health of the population. Although scientists claim that under some current conditions the degree of expansion has slowed down, there is a serious danger that in the next, fourth wave, the virus causes 7 serious consequences especially for people who have been vaccinated or vaccinated only once or not. Looking at the general experience so far and under-coordinated crisis management of COVID-19 in our country, is as you know BiH is the third country in the world by the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants and the country in which it currently has the least vaccinated or vaccinated population of only 3%, including, the process of immunisation of the BiH population and even problems in the health system or BiH system, the need for more intensive co-ordination of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs with the governments of Republika Srpska and the Federation in two directions is imposed. Preparations of emergency measures and activities for the fall-in winter of '21. In order to prevent the effects of the pandemic and in particular the implementation of the prom and effective immunisation of the Bosnian Herzegovina population, would, in this way, reduce the risk of hospitalisation of our population by as much as 90% by vaccination or vaccination. Since I see that Mr. Chairman is gone and has no competent minister, so really what I want to ask you, each of you, to make extra efforts, here I see Deputy Brkić here and I'm glad to see him, let's try, my people, I can't understand that we're so capable that we can't find a million vaccines for our population. To start the gap, instructing our ambassadors around the world, there are countries that sell these vaccines on the market, in certain EU countries people have surpluses, I can't understand that we can't get a million vaccines, is that if we get them, because some of us see the former system of that Yugoslavia as a hateful country, I'll only give you the information that in the time of Titina Yugoslavia, 18 million people were vaccinated in 28 days. I, by my assessment, don't need us maybe a million and a half of those vaccines anymore, and I hope, and we have enough time again for two, three months, if we manage to vaccinate people first, we'll save people's lives, and in the end we'll save the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2687	Mr. Tegeltija and Mrs. Gudeljević are gone, and the good news for you and for those present is that a contract has been signed today at half a million vaccines with China, Sinofarm, the Federation of BiH. Let's move on, you'll get the answer, of course, later in writing. I give my word to Lidija Bradara.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2688	I thank the president. Members of the College, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers here present, colleagues and colleagues all welcome you, so I believe in your good faith that we will get answers to some questions, even if we do not get answers. I asked the President of the Council of Ministers, that in cooperation with the DEI, the Directorate for European Integrations, provided an answer to this question, and I think it is very urgent, and my question is: Has the Council of Ministers and, together with the Directorate for European Integration participated in the preparation of territorial and socio-economic analysis for Interreg IPA CBC for the period 2021-2027 and has there been a change in the plans of the municipalities so far and whether the interested public has met? As far as I know, it is not, and it is about the fact that certain municipalities that have once made a decision are located in the region of BiH and Serbia, and by their structure, here is the way and the action and 8 cooperation I think should belong to the region of Interreg Croatia, BiH and Montenegro, so that these are the municipalities of Kiselj, Kresevo and Fojnica, which for more than 20 years have friendly relations with both the cities of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary and I think that accession, and I think it is possible that if a partner country asks that certain municipalities be found in another region for cross-border cooperation that in any case this can be respected by EU coordinators. I wish there were a Council of Ministers chairman that we could resolve this issue, as these days this is being resolved both in the coordination of these countries and in the EU. I particularly point out this, because for the period between 2021 and 2027, more than 9 billion euros for cross-border cooperation were provided for the region, at least this part, which is much bigger and I think that by joining these municipalities to another region, and that is not the problem, more funding for BiH has certainly been withdrawn, and therefore for the economy and for all those branches that can be regulated and operated on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2689	Thank you. So there's no prime minister, uh, so you'll get the answer later. This concludes the question of delegates. Moving to the agenda, I suggest the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, No 01,02-02-1-1223/21, of 1606.2021; 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-764/21, of 30.04.2021; 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (proposed law in first reading), issue: 01-02-1-495/21, since 16.03.2021; 5. Report on issued documents and denied requests for the issue of external trade in arms, military equipment and goods for 2018, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-721/20, of 26.03.2020; 6. Report on the realisation of issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment and goods for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-926/21, of 28.04.2021; 7. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-50-18-534/21 – link: act No: 03-50-13-25-15/21, since 01.03.2021; 8. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2020, applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01.02-16-1-847/21, dated 30.04.2021; 9. Information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020, delivered by the BiH Ministry of Security, number: 02-50-18-388/21, of 05.05.2021; 10. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three 9 Ombudsmans for human rights Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-6-1179-1/121, of 24.06.2021; 11. Denis Bećirović's delegation initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to present, in co-operation with entity governments, a comprehensive proposal for measures of effective protection of domestic production, No. 02-50-6-1085/21, of 26.05.2021; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of the Cross-border Co-operation Programme for Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019 between the European Commission, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-21-1178/21, of 09.06.2021; 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – City Transport Project in Sarajevo, issue: 01,02-21-11180/21, of 09.06.2021; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in infrastructure and construction projects, No: 01,02-21-1-1189/21, of 1106.2021; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement relating to mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 01,02-21-1195/21, of 1106.2021; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on International Scientific and Technical Co-operation in High Energy Physics between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Nuclear Research Organisation (CERN), No: 01,02-21-1-1196/21, of 11.06.2021; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Responsibility for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, issue 01.02-21-1197/21, dated 11.06.2021; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on military-financial co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Turkey, No 01.02-21-1198/21, of 11.06.2021. This is a harmonised agenda by the College of the House of Peoples that you've won. Is anyone answering for a word? Any suggestions for changes and additions? Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2690	Twenty-six years after the Dayton Peace Agreement, we have the rightful verdicts of the world's highest courts. I think the time has finally come for us to open the topic of the implementation of these judgments in the state authorities. Those aren't the convictions for the archives. Unfortunately, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have two trends. The first trend is that Bosnian-Herzegovic and Bosniak politicians leave the verdict in the archives. The second trend is the trend of Milorad Dodik and his followers who draw those judgments in a way that celebrates convicted war criminals and convicted politicians. Yesterday, we heard the verdict of the heads of Serbia's National Security Service and heard of a joint criminal enterprise headed by Slobodan Milošević. I, here, particularly, wish to single out the fact that Radovan Karadžić, in his verdict, was found to be legally responsible for 10 genocides in Srebrenica, crimes against humanity, violations of laws and customs and rules of war and four joint criminal enterprise of the UZP for Sarajevo, the Srebrenica LZP, the comprehensive LZP and the LZP for taking hostages. But what many forget in that verdict, Karadžić was also ruled because he tried to destroy a country. So Karadžić was convicted of trying to break and destroy the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a legal verdict for all time. I think all these judgments by international courts should also be delivered to Milorad Dodik and to all delegates and MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, all representatives of the legislative and executive authorities at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We simply, after these judgments, must order that we introduce zero tolerance and every thought of breaking the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because no one will ever take one square meter of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state territory. That's why my proposal is to adopt into the College, but also at the House, here's to..., a conclusion that requires all delegates, MPs, members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, all representatives of the legislative and executive authorities to deliver all the judicial verdicts of the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. I was thinking today that...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2691	You've wasted your time, Mr. Bećirović. What is a concrete agenda proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2692	I have prepared, therefore, in writing, what our Rules of Procedure requires, this proposal, but I now deliver this conclusion to you in the College that you in the College decide and inform Parliament, and I do not want to vote on it today. It's enough to start by opening this very important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2693	Thank you. So you don't have a proposal... agenda. So this one has a agenda, no changes and no additions. The agenda has been adopted, it is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word on the record? No Niko's answering. 11 We vote on the 18th session of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Make it possible to vote. All present voted yes. So there are 13 present – for the 13th vote. We've got all the necessary majority, the minutes have passed. I find that the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, issue: 01,02-02-1-1223/21, dated 1606.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2696	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2697	There's no proposal. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? ... Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2698	I suggest that we no longer discuss this agenda point, given that there is no proposing, and as a contribution to that attitude, I would like to say a few words. Never came to this House a more complex law, because you can't only observe the law that today needs to... his procedure, it's zaskon about customs violations, because he's directly based on a much more complex law that hasn't yet entered into force, and that's the Customs Policy Act. And such two complex laws, one of which should have its own procedure which, imagine someone decided to first consider the House of Peoples, and then go to the House of Representatives. No argument at all. I spent a lot of time talking to a lot of people, the Customs Policy Act was passed in 2015, today we are, exactly six years, in June of the month, six years have passed since that law was passed and six years this law has not entered into force. I tried to see why this law didn't come into force, and then I saw that there are still elements that are the reason why he can't even come into force today, just to adopt it. The Proposer says - the date of application of the new Customs Policy Act and its implementing rules has been extended several times primarily because 12 technical conditions have not been met regarding the possibility of the application of the electronic signature, i.e. the implementation of the said rules is not possible without qualified electronic certificates issued by registered certification bodies in accordance with the Electronic Signature Act and the Electronic Document Act. Now, I'm asking, so the first and basic conditions why the law didn't come into force are still not removed. So the law neither is it, nor is it simple to adopt it quickly, nor can it withstand this high degree of urgency test. So the basic law he's relying on, that Customs Policy Act hasn't come into force... for six years and who knows when it's gonna last. The second thing, which is called on by the Proposer to implement Zaskon Customs Policy Act, has been amended three times, 2013, 1 September 2013, 2020 and, 2020 twice. The situation is, therefore, such that we should talk a lot with the suggestor to see where and what this is, what made him so specific in the first place. Finally, several questions that the Proposer would surely have to answer – why nothing was done to speed up this process, which had preceded it, why they were not, nothing was done to remove it, or to speed up the way and remove things that could not be applied by the law. We don't have any reason to support this law in an emergency procedure. There are too many things that are warning, and I don't think the House will lose anything if it decides to go, not to adopt an emergency procedure, and in the meantime, to get answers to all the questions that stand before this law. So it's not true that urgency, because urgency determines the Council of Ministers, it's not true that the Customs Policy Act will come into force on 01.07, so today, it's not, so there's no reason. There are other reasons why they don't write in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2699	Thank you. No Niko's answered the word. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Enable voting for procedure. The vote was 10 in the Federation, Republika Srpska 3 voted against. So we don't have an entity majority. Shall we go to the second round of voting? [[/consultations of the College.]] We're not going to the second round of voting, there's going to be a later adjustment. 13 Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of Justice of BiH (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-764/21, of 30.04.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2702	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2703	There's no need. I offer the word to the Proposer of the Law. Do we have a proposed law?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2704	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2705	There's no bill promoter. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko answered for the word. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period before the Court of First Reading. Give me a vote. So there's 13 -- 12 votes against no one. _________(?) 14 [[no microphone turned on]] Repeat the vote. Attending 13 – voting 13 for. So we have full support, therefore the general majority yes, the entity majority do. Law adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (proposed law in first reading), issue: 01-02-1-495/21, since 16.03.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2709	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2710	There's no need. I offer a word to the Reporter if he is present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] She's not present. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Pendeš answers her word. Here's Marina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2712	I thank the chairman. Since we discussed these reports at the Defence and Security Committee, and then I made more of our views that the report is not how it should be in our opinion, that it should be next to the end-user, which is the state, the number of licenses, for example. One, Mil EU category ML3. and the value in euro exported or imported goods should include clearly who is the importer, who is the exporter, for which military equipment or dual-use products are concerned, who is the end-user. So we believe that this current report does not give the right information about what is being imported into Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is being exported from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who imports, who exports, which opens up the possibility that there is a possibility, conditionally speaking, of non-control from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, I propose one conclusion that we as the House of Peoples should be in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations that future annual reports on issued, denied, realised external trade permits must contain the name, name of importers, exporters, end-users, as well as type of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods. Other features remain as they are in this table. It's very important, so that we have control as, so I think that's the conclusion, I've prepared it, well, here's what we're going to figure out.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2713	Is that supposed to be divided into benches or can we vote this way on the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2714	16 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2715	I can read it one more time, can I? I suggest we pick up the matter, I'll read the proposal of my colleague Pendeš one more time, and then I'll vote on her proposal first, and then the report. Therefore, once again – MVTEO is obliged to include future annual reports on issued, rejected and implemented licences for external trade in arms, military equipment and goods of special purpose in the future must contain the name, name of the importer, exporter, end-user, as well as the type of arms, military equipment and dual-use goods. Other features remain as they have so far. Who's to this conclusion? So there are 13 – 11 votes against... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Repeat the vote. There were 13 in attendance -- 9 in favour, 3 in favour of the vote, 1 in abstention. It has a general majority and has an entity majority. The conclusion, therefore, is adopted. We're going to vote on the report itself. At present 13 - vote for 6, against was no one, abstentioned 7. We have the general majority, and we have the entity majority. Therefore, the report has passed. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Report on the realisation of issued documents for external trade in arms, military equipment and goods for 2018, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-926/21, of 28.04.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2718	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2719	There's no need. I offer a word to the Reporter if he is present. He's gone. 17 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We vote on a report on the implementation of the external trade in arms, military equipment and special purpose goods issued for 2018. There were 13 in attendance - voting for 6 with 7 abstentions. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. Therefore, the report passed and was adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2018 and 2019, applicant: BiH Ministry of Security, number: 01,02-50-18-534/21 – link: act No: 03-50-13-25-15/21, since 01.03.2021. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission has not received knowledge of the Information. At the 21st session, held on 15.06 this year, the House of Representatives received information. I offer the word to Asim Sarajlić, chairman of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2721	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2722	There's no need. I offer the applicant information if there is a need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2724	So this agenda item in normal parliaments is on the agenda every year, and it mainly brings a lot of debates on the security situation in which we live. So, at the 14th session of the House of Peoples, in January of the month, I asked the Minister of Security why the Ministry of Security did not fulfil its obligation to report, inform 18 Parliament of the annual safety reports and when the Ministry of Security would provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the state of security for 2018 and 2019. We have seen that the latest information on the security situation was adopted in this House in 2016. That means we spent the whole last term without an analysis of this document. I also received information that, in 2019, in the cabinet of then Minister Mektić, information on the state of security for 2018 was delivered, but that the Council of Ministers had not considered it for unexplained reasons. So, something was going on. This was followed by the Ministry of Security Information for 2018 and 2019, and the Council of Ministers adopted such information. It's absurd now in half of '21. the years to talk about the security situation in 2018 and 2019, and that is not the intention. If one material can't be used to get out of it... some message, especially a lesson, then it's absurd to even have such materials on the agenda of Parliament's session. Why is it important for Parliament to discuss such issues? Because such information should mainly contain measures implemented by institutions and law enforcement agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They also have an important thing to do to serve the legislative authorities as the basis to advance existing legal frameworks in their future work through legislative activities carried out by Parliament. It's an important segment to be referred to by such reports. The second is to influence policies, strategies and action plans, and we know that almost every area is missing some, and eventually to meet the citizens of this country in what a safe environment they live in. Today, they have not, since 2016, had a unique display of the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in its entire space. This is why the Joint Defence and Security Commission has neither accepted nor received this information. I hope that new information will soon be in front of MPs and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly and that the ministry will try to make sure that the new data, which it can present at this time, explains the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2725	Denis Bećirović called, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2726	Thank you. It is the Security status information for 2018 and 2019, as part of this information, a special segment is a migrant crisis, which has undoubtedly affected the overall security situation in BiH. I think that this very important issue is also to be discussed here in the BiH state parliament today, and the fact that BiH has survived the difficult migrant crisis in this 2018 and especially in 2019, among other things, is also said in this submitted Information. What concerns not only 2018 and 2019 is the fact that even in 2020, we will only consider it, we see that we have more than 16,000 new illegal migrations and entry into the state territory of BiH, that is the data that is both worrying and need to think about. I hope it's worrying about a happy college at this point, when we talk about it. In 2018 and 2019, especially in 2019, I proposed concrete measures here, the first concrete measure rejected here by most votes was to strengthen the State Border Service, the consequences of such refusal were borne by BiH citizens, especially in the UN-San canton, Sarajevo and Tuzlan. The second measure, which I also specifically suggested, and the majority here refused, was a proposal to engage the Armed Forces of BiH, unfortunately and it was rejected. I think that the migration crisis in BiH is not over, that we still have 19 serious problems on the ground, and that no one rules out that there can be a new escalation of the migrant crisis, and so again I suggest that it is primarily the implementation of these two measures that I was talking about, because I don't think we're going to have control over this issue without it. To be honest, reading this document has certain statistics for 2020, which, when combined with 2018 and 2019, are better than those two years, but is still far from good. In this information on the state of security, it is also a political issue. Unfortunately, it's an accurate finding, but it's also a sad finding, it shouldn't be a political issue, it's a matter of a couple of excellency security issues that we should have a full consensus on. So once again, I want to repeat some of the views that I have already publicly presented here, but also to point out that we must and how seriously we are going through all the authorities. I also see in this information that there is finally one among the Council of Ministers' actions relating to strengthening the State Border Service, I do not see exactly what this information means, but in any case, if it is one serious activity that is going to seriously address this situation, I want to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2727	Zlatko Miletić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2728	I really, thank the chairman, will indeed try to be brief given that this report or report alone contains a lot of data, I cannot agree with the estimates that regardless of the old information from 2018 and 2019, we do not need to seriously consider it if there is some data here that are quite worrying. I thank Mr. Minister, and I think that your officials have made this report very correctly in view of your legal powers and that you do not actually have any executive function in matters of state or entity police agencies, but regardless of the fact, it is my duty and obligation, given that I have been doing this job for a long time, to draw your attention, not to all of us, or to the citizens of BiH, to here several indicators or several trends that are very serious. When it comes to the most serious crimes, I'm talking about the crimes of murder, in 2018 there were 38 and we had an increase of 5%, a pardon in 2019, and in 2018 there was even a increase of 12%. In the crimes of robbery, robbery theft, say, robbery theft by, over 40% has increased the number of crimes. The theft of motor vehicles so I don't talk, so in the Federation when you take these indicators, as far as I can remember, at least one and a half motor vehicles are stolen daily, which is a disaster. What I really want to suggest to you, when you have the opportunity, when you are in accordance with the law to coordinate these measures, I've already talked about this once, about 200 million marks of the country's citizens single for agencies at the state level, so I'm talking about all the security agencies, it's huge money. I think that these indicators, especially in terms of investigating crimes, regardless of the total number of crimes in decline, I think that they are not working hard enough and that they can do much more in various respects. Also, what worries me is that the entity ministries here did not show events that had a very large echo in the public, and these crimes are not enlightened, and these are crimes related to the murder of Dragičević and Memić, meaning one in Banja Luka, the other in Sarajevo, about the killings of police officers that I do not speak and that no one has found it appropriate to handle these crimes in a special way, I must say, quite alarmingly. 20 What I see is a huge increase in criminal acts is also in the area of crimes related to the dispersion of religious and national hatred, which is very worrying, very worrying. What do you do especially in a preventive sense? So, police agencies, given that they have strategic governance, need to take this data much more seriously and in this sense take measures and steps really to reduce the assessment of these particular areas means the number of crimes in such a way that we can say, indeed, for the security situation in the whole of BiH, that it is at a satisfactory level. In view of this, here, that my colleague Denis was talking about migration, and that today we have special information on the agenda, I'm not going to speak any further, in any case I think this information, no matter who it was making and when it was making, is worth the attention and that it really deserves to be considered in a serious way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2729	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. That's how we exhausted the discussion. I am closing the debate and we are voting on the Security Information in BiH for 2018 and 2019. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Can I help you? Do it again? Repeat the vote. Did you ask for a re-election? _________(?) That's right, that's right. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2734	Answers immediately and to questions that... asked... [[no microphone turned on]] 22
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2735	Well, I'm sticking to the regular procedure, so here's the minister, uh, he'll explain, and then we'll open the debate later, so he can explain to your...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2736	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you, the Information on Migration in BiH for 2020, I don't think I should particularly update the content of this information, I would like to highlight the fact that, in the previous year, the Ministry of Security and several agencies in charge of law enforcement, I think, above all, of the Border Police and Service for Foreign Affairs, part of the SIPA and OSA, as well as of entities and some cantonal MUPs, in line with the Action Plan and measures for effective migration management in BiH, which was adopted at the end of last year, took one whole series of activities and measures that introduced a significantly higher level and quality and organisation in the management of this serious security risk, which in our case, as well as in most other countries, contains political, humanitarian, but also many other aspects. What I think is relevant today, to say, is that the burden of these migrations is essentially borne by the agencies I mentioned, two cantons, both Unsko-Sanski and Sarajevo and partly certain cantons or municipalities on whose territory is transit of illegal migrants. The BiH state institutionally in terms of budgets and powers ignores the existence of migration, which is, from my perspective, an unsustainable approach, because migration is one of the world's trends and one of the key security issues for both Europe and the EU, but also for most of the world's organisations or countries that deal with security issues in a serious and complex way. We do not have any specific organisational structure that would have the capacity to deal with migration and organisationally, and legal, human, financial, and other necessary resources and assumptions, these are all improvisations and we rely heavily on the support and assistance of international organisations and the EU, or the EU Delegation to BiH. For migration, BiH has singled out zero fenings so far, we tried to build into the budget at least some symbolic amount that would give us some sort of opportunity for intervention, and eventually managed to maintain those 3 million converting marks, so that we are essentially dependent on the will and willingness of the European Commission, certain international organisations to help us and allocate funds. We had here, therefore, in addition to the problems that I highlighted and significant problems in implementing certain phases that received significantly more complex and broader connotations, fortunately none of this produced any escalation, we managed to sort it out in one way without any serious consequences and political, security, and humanitarian. From all of this, I would also like to draw some kind of conclusion that, in fact, during this year, we have one trend of a constant drop in the number of migrants, which is the consequence of a whole spectrum of measures taken by the Ministry of Security and Security agencies and I think it is very relevant to say that in BiH today we have a total of 3,049 migrants, on the impromptu camp Lipa, we have a total of 667 that enter these 3,049, these are figures that were unique in the end of 2017, or the period when they practically started mass migration in BiH. We have those who understand that these trends are the consequence of one whole, again I say, spectrum of measures taken to improve the quality of migration control. We have very intense negotiations with several governments of the countries, which are countries of origin of migrants, on the conclusion of a readmission agreement, I am optimistic that we may be able to sign these agreements with several more of these countries this year, and I would remind you that the talks on the signing of these agreements have started somewhere between 2008 and 2011 and that they have practically fully calmed these negotiations, that 23 we have updated. We have intensified many operational activities, especially in the east of the state on border control, to the extent that it could have been done in a practical sense and measures to increase the number of border police officers, but it is a process that is slower and below the level of any real needs. So, with what I've said, with the material that's been delivered, I'm prepared to possibly comment on some practical questions. I had a conversation with Mrs. Majkić before the beginning of this session and on reporting, and I think this reporting should be simplified and make this procedure more concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2737	Thank you, Minister. A colleague called Majkić, then Marina Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2738	First, let's remind ourselves of the conclusions we make ourselves, and then let's forget about them, which we are considering today at all. So, I remind you that at the 7th session of the House of Peoples, from 11th06.2020 a year ago, the conclusion of fellow Špirić, which reads: The House of Peoples is launching an initiative to hold a plenary session of both homes of the Parliamentary substance dedicated to the migrant crisis and its consequences, the material for this session should be prepared by the Council of Ministers. And as soon as we brought it in, we forgot. Now how are the materials moving? A bunch of material on similar topics is in the Parliamentary Assembly, both at one home and another, and no one knows where we are anymore. First came the information on the state of migration for 2020, which the Ministry of Security sent to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, which covered the situation on 15.05.2018 until 31.12.2020 means 2018, 2019, 2020, three years. The following material that has come Information on the security situation for 2020 sent to the House of Peoples, this is today's point. The third material that should have, that they have done together, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees does not exist, but there are two separatists separate and not shared. So we can't think of it as material that could serve the House for a purpose that led him to adopt the conclusion. Now that's just, that's what I'm saying about the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Now on the Joint Commission on Human Rights there is material for November 2020, please be careful monthly to report on the state of migration at the monthly level, so the Ministry cannot process the.... terrain for that time, let alone write a report. So it's in 2020 for this Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and for January 2021 and none has been accepted except for this for, received for, except this for November 2020. And where are we now, where are we now? If we didn't know where to go from, we didn't complete the assignment that Dom set us up, our reports are large, the number of pages, they're just adding up, you can never at one point what happened from the moment we last had to the next. In this sense, in order to make order some of this and that we could finally come to the conclusion of the House, I propose that the following conclusion be adopted: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly requires that the Council of Ministers, within two months of the adoption of this conclusion, draw up and deliver 24 information to the Parliamentary Assembly on the situation in the area of migration for the period 01.01 to 30.06.2021. So, six months, let's see what's been going on in the last six months. - That information should contain a brief and easy display of information on the situation in the area of migration only for the period 01.01.–30.06. Do not burden us with 2018 and third - Information should contain integrated data on the state of migration from the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees' jurisdiction for that period. I think it would just introduce the possibility that there is no rational discussion about the piles of material standing here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2739	Marina Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2740	So, honourable ministers, I disagree with you that we do not have an institution in BiH that could manage and deal with a crisis such as the migrant crisis, or illegal migration. We have at national level the Ministry of Security which, in our organization or under the Ministry of Security, we have certain units and we have the State Border Service and several other agencies. We have the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these are all state-level institutions, along with everyone else in the Council of Ministers, including the Ministry of Finance, who should work and respond to the Action Plan, which is still in the previous session on 143, I think, a session adopted in response to the migrant crisis. Morma Morma you, because you said on this report, which is the subject, on page 26, pardon – managing illegal migration is a political issue around which there are divisions in BiH, authorities in Republika Srpska and cantons with the Croatian majority do not want to accept the burden of the migrant crisis and participate in the equal distribution of migrants throughout BiH, while cantons with the Bosniak majority suffer the greatest burden and face the inflow of more migrants, and overcrowded temporary reception centres, as well as increasing security challenges that leave the consequences on the entire territory of BiH. I think there are, of course, non-acceptable centers in Herzegova-Neretva County, but asylum centres where families who have accepted, reported, received asylum, are living neatly. So, in Herzegovic-Neretva, there are. Secondly, the migrant crisis and illegal migration have those who do not have an answer, which is us BiH, and I think that in that Action Plan, with the 143rd session, it is clearly said that this must be strengthened, what Mr Bećirović was talking about, I was against his initiative for a simple reason because there are already decisions on the Council of Ministers, which is to strengthen the Border Police and prevent illegal entry at the eastern border of BiH, as it will say from Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. On the other hand, in this previous report on the state of security at station 15, I'm sorry, he says -- that many migrants are illegal, illegal, illegal crossings of the state border. Turns out we have a bigger attempt on illegal migrants from the Republic of Croatia. And in one sentence, it says - preventing illegal crossing from BiH to Croatia. To me, these are the thesis that 25 are unacceptable to me, because if it is an illegal migrant, it cannot cross illegally from BiH to Croatia, it must not enter BiH and, in that case, it is an illegal migrant. Next, the key challenges, I was talking about. So, the activities of the Coordination Body. The coordination body, in my opinion, and this is the reason why I believe that, for me, the Report and the unacceptable, did not do what was defined by this Action Plan, nor did the foreign minister do his job, nor did the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees do his job, and with due respect, you, too, as a security minister with your competent agencies and the Border Police, did nothing to increase financial resources, not for the illegal and management of the crisis of illegal migration, but to strengthen BiH institutions in order to prevent illegal migration. And in that sense, I support your proposal, Mrs. Majkić, that we need a full report for these six months with clearly defined points. On the other hand, we have about 86 million, talking about millions, which through the UNDP, the European Commission is giving to manage the migrant crisis. Who runs that money, how do you spend that money, who's responsible for that money, why do we have, uh, illegal human trafficking? Through that migrant crisis we have, not just people, when I say people think about children, I mean women. Who determined if these children were actually children of these illegal migrants in the Unsaan Canton? We can determine based on DNA. So these are all the information that should be contained in the report and the response to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2741	The next is Asim Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I didn't mean to report, uh, but since my two colleagues, who are in the Defence and Security Commission, Mrs. Majkić and Mrs. Pendeš, have said a few words, it is my turn to look back too. So, you have that folk saying about the unemployed priest, so I wouldn't keep going on, what he does when he's unemployed, uh, that's how we act, especially, let's say, here's to a little amnesty of the House of Peoples, uh, House of Representatives. The House of Representatives concludes that it is asking the minister and all agencies, according to Ms. Majkić, information for November last year only for November, this one, on the state of migration. So we had all kinds of information and reports, then we don't adopt them here, etc. And now we're looking for information for these six months. And yet again from some political positions, of course, we may not accept it, depending on the position of individual clubs and delegates in this House. But what I'm saying is, on specific things, we haven't assigned ourselves as Parliament, as the House of Peoples, we haven't found the resources, we haven't allowed the Ministry, nor the agencies to do their job in quality, but they are doing it on the basis of their report and this information are really doing it. How do they do it? As the Defence and Security Committee, we have had several meetings and I thank Mr. Cikotić and for his correctness, and for the specificity, and for the expeditionivity of all his co-workers from the Ministry, as well as from agencies such as the Office of Relations with Foreigners and Border Police. So, we have this overall crisis and this data that the minister wrote here in the Information and the improvement of the situation not only happened in itself, so preventing the eastern borders towards the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, this, a reduced inflow of migrants, etc. It didn't happen on its own. The ministry headed by Dr. Cikotić, the agency, the State Border Service is working with help, unfortunately I say again, donors and donors, so we and the border guards are getting out of the funds donated to us, 26 we don't have the hearing to provide it in the budget, so we're not even going to raise our salaries, so we're not going to fill those pockets, so Brussels is kind of seeing us as an outpost today, so we're getting those funds and the Office of Foreign Affairs and the State Border Service, the Border Police, the minister who's coordinating it well. So, we were a complete committee visiting the Ministry and we had everyone responsible on site and we talked to everyone, we scheduled some visits, unfortunately here we have not yet implemented them, although not even to the director of the agencies, it's a little bit up to us. And I want to tell you that in Parliament, we act a little more populistly, when there's an incident here in Hadzic, or worse in the Un-San canton, and the fact is that all the crisis and the burden of the migrant crisis are carried by two cantons, the Sarajevo Canton and the Un-San canton. Sarajevo because of the central gravity of Sarajevo, where certain things can be achieved, and UNO-unsko-sanski because it is at the end of BiH and at the beginning of their wishes, because behind the UN-San canton they want the EU to perform. And there's a lot of problems facing both the Border Police and the Ministry, but these indicators and this information didn't come in itself, and at least our merits are these positive results, at least our merit, us as Parliament, so if you want us as a defense and security commission. We haven't broken up much to make it possible for these people to do quality work and to provide them with material and financial resources. Brussels is here, partner countries are here and these services are here, and this is the Ministry's response to the mission. I hope, Minister, that even without this information in six months, which is being sought today for 2021, you will continue to coordinate quality with all directors and all agencies, and that you will warn, as Mrs. Pendeš says, on the eastern border, and that we will have fewer and fewer of these security challenges that are constantly happening, dead migrants, migrants in each other's conflict, migrants in conflict with our population, etc. And thank Bog there are fewer and fewer such phenomena, therefore full support for this Information and your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2743	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2744	Dude, we didn't finish our job. But not only did we not finish our work, we got the Council of Ministers' conclusions. In these conclusions, it says, among them, that the Ministry of Security is in charge of correcting information on the situation in the area of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020. In order to correct it in the sense of disposing of that agency, the Council of Ministers did not accept the formation of any new agency, and to correct it and to deliver it to the House of People in accordance with the conclusion of the 7th session of the House of Peoples. ......... And we were just supposed to look at that material, nothing else. [[You don't understand.]] And in the meantime, we went into a break-in. And something else was said by the Council of Ministers, which may have been... recklessly passed at the Ministry of Security, he said -- the Ministry of Security is in charge of monthly information on the state of migration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with the BiH presidency, also delivering to the Parliamentary Assembly. Say it's not real, so just explain that monthly, every month, so you can't fill it in to... let alone deliver the information. I'm asking you that in that... we can't, we don't know what to do with that information. In the end, they don't really reflect the situation. So it's a communication problem for us. Now we have six, seven of some reports, and every month a new report that comes in a large amount, and to find out what's different, or... you don't know what. I mean, it's a disaster. So, we need to make the material that we need, we can... this is pulling this out of the situation in six months, we're pulling this out... and we're getting some material that can be optimal for discussion. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2745	Munib Jusufović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2746	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I think this information needs to be fully monitored, it needs to be extremely realistic. I think he has uncritical access to this one, and by the minister and by Mr Sarajlić. Why? Because we lined everything up and we figured it out like, which I won't deny, that this Ministry, too, is probably, with some moves and somehow made it smaller... but nobody mentions and the real strongest factor is Croatia. Why? I'm not going to say whether they've always applied measures in accordance with humanitarian rules, because there's been a lot of things going on, but the truth and the fact that it's getting harder and harder there and that, in a certain way, it's turned migrants in some other directions. You're not going to tell me that the border that is so heavily protected from Serbia right now and none of them have a new border guard can pass whoever they want at different locations. But the route has been changed, I don't know how you don't remember to follow, the route has been changed because they've started coming back from Krajina, so they're going across Romania, and it's particularly enhanced via Spain, etc., this country. I won't accept that Croatia has done everything, uh, what should have been done, right, but believe me, I'm convinced,...we're following now, let's observe, regardless of the information..., monthly,... You're going to have a smaller and smaller number, so make sure you get a smaller number. [[You don't understand.]] But not thanks to our services, but to this someone else, how can I say, circumstances, because, first of all, if you cross Croatia, you remember past it, goes, to Slovenia comes, brings it back and... all over again...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2747	Please hurry...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2748	Here, it's, it's supposed to be real, and it doesn't turn out to be praise here... Minister Cikotić has done some measures and we have, now I'm following, here I'm challenging the following information, so let's see what the situation is going to be. Everyone, here, off the border will be a better condition than it is now and in the next period. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2749	Zlatko Miletić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2750	Well, I have to say, since I answered the discussion, I'm going to try to be brief, just to remind you of two, three things. To correct, above all, Mr Sarajlić, in the sense that we, as I recall, do not know how long ago, and it does not set us free as the House of Peoples, especially you members of the College, that we have come to the conclusion that a joint session of the Parliamentary Assembly is held on this issue, means both at home, and that we are talking about this issue in a public, fair, transparent way. I'm not Mr. Cikotić's lawyer, I have a lot of grudges against him, but in this situation I first defend him as an institution in a way that we do not allow ourselves to be hypocritical, regardless of your commission's special jurisdiction. I'm not going in, I'm not attending these meetings, what's going on there, what you're discussing, but I want to say one important thing, that obviously this is one of the most serious problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina and obviously this is about the obvious political obstruction of solving this problem. I can present to you dozens of arguments why I think so, but, here, when it comes to discussion I will touch some of them, but really please, really please let us try to solve this issue in a whole and serious way, respecting the fact that Mrs. Majkić is saying, and I only agree with that, to make that information for six months, but really to sit down, means point by point to consider, if it takes two days to sit here until we solve that issue. But you can't... responsibility to a man. If a man wrote to you that they needed 215 million to implement these measures, where he would find that money. And you're in the past, so in the last budget, you refused the request of MP Emrić when he asked a man of 40 million to commit to the issue, to get the money in that direction. And you're not that... Is this the problem of this man who is doing this job now, is this man's problem that in two agencies since 2005 and 2009 has not changed the rulebook. In this way police directors or directors cannot manage their agencies because they do not follow the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2751	You'll have a discussion, you've already made time.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2752	So this is what I'm saying in the context, so a lot of things are out here that aren't just true, but here, when there's a discussion. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2753	Denis Bećirović, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2754	I think when it comes to the migrant crisis, we don't have time to argue anymore, to stall, and to some empty conclusions. We need concrete measures and systemic activity, so we have exactly what measures we are taking and measurable analyses to see how we do it. According to assessments by the authorities to establish even more control at the Bosnia and Herzegovina state border, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs about 1,200, minimum 1,200, police officers of the DGS. In this information, I do not know if everyone has been paying attention, among other things, to strengthening the human resources of the State Border Service, and one of the concrete measures is that of training, employment, whether, education 160 cadets and means of employment of about 400 police officers of the State Border Service. Given this measure, I was interested in the amount of financial resources needed, so we got this data, 3,650,000 once and 7,350,000 KM annually. What is the source of funding, according to donors and the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since this month, July 2021, we should also have a budget here for the debate at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I have a specific question for the minister if he can answer – of these required funds as already in the proposed budget, which, according to my information, has been provided in the Parliamentary Assembly? These are concrete things to see if it's done, if it's not why it's not and who's blocking it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2755	Zlatko Miletić, the debate. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2756	Here, I'll really try to be shorter now. Here are the previous reports that we had, if I remember well, in nine months, this report or this report done in a much more quality way, it's much more precise and it has a lot more data. Even we suggested that they put in here and some information that wasn't in that past information. But what I'm going to ask you, when you answer your word, to try to answer a few questions that, in my opinion, are very important. I'm not going to count all the reception centers here and what number of people are currently in place, since this data is old, is it, for six months now, but I see, here this morning, to build some construction facility at a bar when it comes to Lipa and to try conditions or conditions for the accommodation of people who are going to be up there to make things more humane. A little joke about your observation that by coordinating the measures you managed to reduce the inflow of migrants, I think our happiness is the greatest in all of this, and this has to do with the aspect of human rights violations of those people who come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that information is circulating around the world, and when they see these migrants being spent in Bosnia and Herzegovina and what happens to them here, then apparently people are avoiding them, they have now found another route that goes about from Bulgaria and Serbia, across Romania, Hungary and some other countries. And I think that's the basic reason when they saw how they're being spent here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, simply for those reasons that people pass us by. My question or my segistry is next – I think that the number of criminal charges for persons engaged in illegal migration is very modest and that police agencies have done almost nothing on this issue. Please, all the police agencies here, I mean cantons and counties, so since they're all being treated together, at least those areas where migrants come in, only 106 total applications for about 200 people. I think your results are more than modest. Page 23, please, this is what we asked for to be inserted into this data, donated to us 31m euros over the past year from these four international organisations that are here, is it, mentioned? According to public statements by Prime Minister Unsko-Stan Canton, the minister of Unsko-San canton, people claim they never received a mark from these funds. Sounds amazing to me. For this money these international organizations had at their disposal, we could have built 10 buildings in the area of UN-San canton to put everything in place to be like a pharmacy. What people have spent their money on, how they do it, whether they're doing it with or without the knowledge of our locals, so if you want state institutions, too. I think if they do it that way that it's inadmissible, they don't do it in any other country, and I think that donations of this kind, no matter who they come from, we need to make some kind of coordination, first of all, that they help local communities with this money. And that's where you'd be praying to give us any further clarification. Please, I am your plan of action and the key challenges that you have mentioned here, I have not seen you mention anywhere, which is so very interesting to me, the BiH Presidency in whose jurisdiction is the engagement of the defence ministry. Why am I saying that? In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we still have, this colleague Jusufović said a few words earlier, 432 places for illegal border crossing. I ask you one more time, and I am grateful to the Bureau members, I see they gave you about five million, or they ended up, conditionally speaking, giving you these additional five million to coordinate these measures, let us hire Armed Forces to prevent these illegal border crossings. With this, we will allow the BiH Border Police to handle their work more easily by 30% or 40%. So I'm asking you to measure in this proposal... in this six-month period if we agree, and you're probably going to make it, that one of those activities that you're predicting is really to predict that, too. And finally, let me ask you, because there is no word about it here, given the particular or enhanced efforts that individual agencies have, this time I would also like to thank the Republika Srpska MUP and the Co-ordination Directorate that 30 have come to the aid of the BiH Border Police, and please let us finally resolve the status of police officers. So, especially when it comes to these lowest acts, he's miserable and we really try to reward these people for the work they do in view of their unfulfilledness, not to exaggerate now, but surely they're doing that job on a double scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2757	Thank you. I am concluding the discussion and I am offering the Minister's word to answer any questions asked by the delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2758	Thank you. I will strive towards the order of exhibitors, distinguished delegates, to comment on what I consider to be important. Mrs. Pendeš says we don't, that it's not true that we don't have an institution at the level of the state that's in charge. I say we don't. I have very specific experiences, when we had a serious crisis in Bihac and in Lipa, I had two key assistants who told me you had no authority or authority to take any responsibility and that you co-ordinate any activity. And then when you ask who's going to do it, ask the European Union. Well, that was about my assistant's answer. So, the border police practically don't, they didn't have a role to play. The Foreign Office has very limited capacity, the Ministry of Security does not have any operational competences and the existing and political and security system offers a lot of room for excuses. I'm warning you about that. I know that then, practically on a personal basis with the directors of the agencies, with the liability holders, we made an arrangement, so we kind of improvised one solution, but I think it happened that a certain number of migrants there died of hunger or freezing cold, so we'd have to re-examine that system and come to the conclusion that we don't have a body that's competent to round up that job. You claim we have one resource in the Herzegovina-Neretva canton. It is true, there is a refugee centre there, it is the capacity of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, but what is called a temporary reception centre for migrants does not exist either in the space of the Herzegovic-Neretva canton or in the space of any other canton with the Croatian majority. Therefore, all the elements of this information contained there have been repeatedly verified. The coordination body, for reasons I wouldn't explain now, isn't even formed, it doesn't exist, and that's how much of its ingenuity and possibilities are at this point. What you mean by saying you didn't do anything to boost institutional capacity. So, from regular meetings of individuals with agency directors, work on colleges at the ministry headquarters, at the headquarters of these agencies, thematic meetings with a group of agency directors, a lot has been done. After all, the decision was made, in October of last year, on the reception of new border police officers and it is the only decision we make for each of these agencies where, compared to the current situation and legal restrictions, we can make the reception of new state or police officers. So in terms of possibilities, we do what's realistically or as much as possible, and with a zero-fening budget, I don't think there's anything that we can do. As for the security of the identity and status of children in the space of the UN-Sancanton, I will tell you that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only one who performs biometric processing of migrants on its territory. There are 31 engagements of competent and international organisations and local social services and child care without parents are conducted in accordance with international standards. We have representatives of both UNICEF and other international organisations who speak of this being done in an acceptable, correct, satisfactory way. As for the monthly reports, so we do this information practically on a daily basis and for people who deal with migration this is a topic that requires daily answers, we do it. I agree you don't need them on a monthly basis either. And everything that the Ministry has done so far has worked in line with the decisions of the relevant institutions – the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Therefore, you make the decision and we will respect it. Mr. Jusufović says the number of migrants is decreasing due to the activities of the Republic of Croatia. We are grateful to the Republic of Croatia for what it does. If you don't notice a whole set of measures that Bosnia and Herzegovina's security structures are taking and the only ones in the region are taking, then it's your perception, not your objective state. As for Mr Bećirović and his questions, I repeat, there has been no fening for migration. When we tried to install 3.4 million for some minimum needs and possibilities of intervention, so so for now, it's not accepted in the re-enactment of the budget or the Council of Ministers, so we're not at that level... Mr Miletić questions the number of criminal charges against migrant smugglers. I agree that this number is small, but I can tell you that only at the end of last summer did we start with more organized activities and more complete, some more complete coordination of a larger number of police agencies that should be involved in all this. You understand the technology of this job, and you can expect that number to grow progressively in the weeks ahead. We have repeatedly submitted a report on how much total money has been donated and how this money is being spent by the international community. I don't mean to improvise, but I'll remind you that satisfying accommodation, nutrition, hygiene and many other needs of migrants is something that takes the lion's part of the job. On the other hand, the salaries of a large number and local staff employed in those international organisations consume a significant percentage of the budget. We reported that police forces from the UN-San canton, the Sarajevo Canton, the Republika Srpska MUP, some agencies, equipped with different types of equipment, vehicles, procurement and weapons, and if you are interested in any of these, the town of Bihac received funds. Therefore, a certain percentage of these funds has been spent on local communities as well. The Bureau was not incorporated into the Plan of Measures and activities of the Ministry of Security for very practical reasons, but I am grateful for the fact that, in its 15th session, in August of last year, the Bureau accepted practically all the proposed measures by the Ministry of Security and, past the requirements, assigned to the Council of Ministers to allocate five million KM from the budget reserve for the purpose of financing the migration management process. That money didn't become operational, and it wasn't realised. I also have an answer from the chairman and finance minister that he can eventually become operational after we adopt the budget for next year. So there was no money available in the budget reserve because he all went to get the vaccine, and we can possibly expect some interventions in the following year. 32 As for the presidency's decisions on the engagement of the Armed Forces at the eastern border, I am not optimistic that the current assembly of the BiH Presidency will make such a decision, but the Ministry of Security uses other available security capacities and strengthens control of the eastern border, strengthening and obtaining technical equipment and coordinating existing agencies and borders is being monitored increasingly. And as far as rewarding police officers are concerned, I am fully agreed and I think it will be a matter of deciding this House on decisions that will confirm better conditions and better personal income for members of different security agencies at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2759	Thank you. The discussion is over so I won't give the word, uh, to the ones who answered, to the colleagues for correcting the wrong quote. In addition to correcting the wrong allegations, they can refer exclusively to the delegation's discussion, not to the minister's report. You have the right to vote against the minister's report. Let's go first with the conclusion offered by Dušanka Majkić, which is... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Therefore, only the replicas and corrections of the wrong quote refer to the discussions of fellow delegates. That's how it's defined by our documents. I'm offering three conclusions, Mrs. Majkić, so I'm going to read one again. It asks the Council of Ministers to draw up and provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on the situation in the area of migration for the period 01.01.-30.06.21 within two months of the adoption of this conclusion. A year. 2. That information should contain a brief simple display of information on the situation in the area of migration only for the period 01.01.'21.-30.06.'21. A year. 3. The information should contain integrated data on the situation of migration from the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for that period. Who's in favor of these conclusions? Attending 14 – 9. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. The conclusion has passed. We are going to vote on the information on the situation in the area of migration itself. Make it possible to vote. Present 14 – vote 7. versus 5, abstention 2. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. So, Information adopted. 33 We move to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of three Ombudsmans for human rights Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-6-1179-1/21, of 24.06.2021.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2763	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2764	There's no need. I offer the word to the applicant, Mr Bećirović. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2765	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2766	There's a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2767	So my proposal implies that the joint forces of the BiH Council of Ministers and the two entity governments no later than three months of delivery here to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a concrete programme to protect domestic production with concrete measures. I am convinced that the issue of protection, above all, of agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, cannot be resolved individually and separately by the Council of Ministers or by any of the two entity governments. The issue can only be successfully addressed through joint action by both the BiH Council of Ministers and the two entity governments. Personally, I think it is much better to accept this proposal today and discuss it in a competent place, in the BiH Parliament, than to have a situation in the coming months that representatives of the executive authority will then discuss it at border crossings or blocked traffic, because farmers are too much of everything. Corona virus and pandemic have caused terrible consequences for agriculture, both in Europe and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And Europe rarely sends the surplus of its products to the neighborhood, here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and too many low prices kill domestic agricultural producers. Farmers were brought to the beggar stick. Here's just one example, of 17,600 milk producers only in Bh entity Republika Srpska now has 2,600. A similar situation is in another entity. People give up agriculture, villages are empty and no one goes back there anymore. We often here because of some illusory jurisdiction, misdeeds, etc., do not bring the necessary measures that people need. Some hide behind different stories of jurisdiction that have nothing to do with life. It is known exactly what the competencies and the restoring ministry are at the state level and entity level. Let them do what they need to do in accordance with the laws and let them do it together, because individually they can't resolve it. This year, therefore, half a year passed, only in one entity, so 1,300 milk producers were lost in Republika Srpska. Trend, so it can't get any worse. When you add to this the fact that our agricultural producers can't produce 45% of what only Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, and you have the information that they can't sell in Bosnia and Herzegovina either, or that they have problems with it, then you understand what it is. In the opinion of agricultural producers from both entities competent, and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have not introduced any serious measures to protect domestic farmers. We have manifestly uncontrollable and excessive imports of agricultural products. Domestic agricultural products should have priority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it doesn't happen the way it's supposed to. With this excessive imports, I don't think domestic farmers have any survival stops. That's how it shows, not theory, but practice, concrete data from the field. That is why I propose that we open this serious topic here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to discuss this. It doesn't cost us anything to call the rest ministers, call the agricultural producers, cross the numbers, the facts, the arguments, and see what's the best solution. Here, for the first five months of 2021, we imported water worth 66.7 million KM and exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina 15.8 million. Well, my people, is it possible that we have such a ratio when it comes to both water and water? See for milk and 35 dairy products, imported goods worth 65.4 million KM, and exports twice lower, 38.5 million KM. And like this all day we could now specify data that is mildly worrying. I therefore repeat and propose that we accept this proposal to task the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and get a proposal to help farmers, not in one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in both parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, throughout the country, because they are all at risk. And don't hide behind any imaginary stories of jurisdiction today. That's not what this is about. Let the Council of Ministers adopt measures for which it is competent, the government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska also, but let them start working on it. People don't have time anymore. When they leave one they tell them, they are in charge of the Council of Ministers, when they go to the Council of Ministers, they are the entity governments. During this transfer of responsibility, the disastrous consequences on the ground are catastrophic. So I invite you today to adopt this.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2768	Thank you. Marina Pendeš, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2769	I want to correct my colleague because he called constitutional authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the BiH Constitution is a Dayton Peace Agreement, an illusory one. So, is that some kind of attack on the BiH Constitution? I really think that's wrong first. Secondly, since I was a member of this Committee, so yesterday we had a ministry of foreign trade and economic relations that clearly told us all, informing us about all the activities that are being done in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in terms of coordination with constitutionally competent lower levels of government, thinking about entities, and in the entity of the Federation of BiH thinking about cantons and, of course, the Brcko District and its attempt to protect the domestic product. Of course, it has to work in coordination with entities. And as for protection when we talk about imports, they find solutions to define certain criteria. So, everything the gentleman said yesterday, the minister informed us that it was both in the ministry and other constitutionally competent, not illusory, ministries in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2770	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2771	Well, I was just in my opening statement talking about this approach. Look, we're talking more than 15,000 people stopped dealing with the dairy industry. We're talking about the catastrophic data on water imports, we're talking about the biggest possible problems people face and there's no replica of it. The debate on competencies, about, simply serving farmers and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I have made it very clear that everyone within my jurisdiction, but together all three governments, the Council of Ministers and two entities, are doing their part of the job. And here, today is July 1st, 2021, you're going to reject this proposal, we're going to open it again on September 1st, but they were alive to see what would happen by then.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2772	Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong quote. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2773	If someone else had submitted a similar initiative, it might have been different to discuss it, but when a master, when a master of failed initiatives and a man who makes everything seem that the Dayton Agreement is out of force, then it has an echo as it was on the commission. No, counterpart Bećirović, trusts no one in Republika Srpska that your intention could be in the direction that would cause good for the people who live there. People don't believe you, they know what your intentions are. So, there will never be any of your initiatives adopted. And in the end, the right to create a policy will get you the moment you win the election. For now, that's not going to work for you, so I hope this initiative goes as far as it's done.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2774	Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2775	Well, once again, Mrs. Majkić confirmed that she doesn't like the truth, likes to invent, likes to replace the thesis, doesn't like to deal with serious issues. And they're all facts. And if that's the case, I'll only give you one example. Here, and to reject all the proposals I propose, but why reject all the proposals proposed by counterpart Miletić, which other delegates have proposed. You rejected all the proposals that came from the House of Representatives, you rejected all the proposals from the Council of Ministers. Here, I've now asked the Minister for concrete measures for the migrant crisis. And? You and your policy don't have one, not a single conversion mark to solve the migrant crisis. You expose yourself, your own anti-state and anti-national politics. Neither Dejton was imagined nor signed to block and obstruct you, but that this country would move forward, but unfortunately you don't understand. As you do not understand by the Rules of Procedure that when another delegate says you should remain silent at that moment. So, you know neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Procedure, you invent, you change the thesis, and the arguments completely deny you. I will be delighted to have you reject all my proposals, and please support at least one proposal from the Council of Ministers from anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2776	Zlatko Miletić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2777	I ask you first to chair your members of the College so as not to allow such steps by Mrs. Majkić. This isn't even the first time, it probably won't be the last one, because this is really about breaking integrity. I'm not answering you because you're telling me inappropriately that you know that we're the same school. What school are you from? And it is really not the right thing to treat anyone in this way and to bring down human integrity and say, regardless of the quality of the initiative, because you will not vote for it. It's just talking about height...
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2778	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2779	I'm asking you to be polite, otherwise very often you interrupt us, not just the two of us, you think you're in charge here and you have the right to interrupt anyone. So, we know to be rude, too, so don't put us in that situation, I beg you. And please, so there's 37 codes of conduct, there's a Rules of Procedure, so a woman presents such facts that she won't vote because someone is this or that, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2780	I agree. Lidija Bradara, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2781	I don't know what you've agreed with right now, but here's what I'm going to accept that we all agree. Six months ago, I was thinking between five and six months ago, and I was thinking that when I said I didn't get an answer and I didn't even want to discuss this issue today, but not that there were only some envoys in this House who were concerned about the people, as you say, the people of BiH, for farmers, artists, poets, actors and others. So, at that time, since BiH has accepted a lot of things and has been committed to the EU, so we have accepted the liquids, so we have accepted various agreements and what we would observe today, we are really in a pinch between the different agreements, the association that we belong to and it is very difficult to talk in general about the protection of domestic production so that you will like any producer, any branch in BiH. I don't know if we colleagues in this House are familiar with the current European crisis in the iron and steel market. So here's something that we're not discussing today, our economy sector, which is, the branch of the economy that survived the crisis and the curve of the crisis, the building industry, and how it affects it. Now we could discuss who is for the protection of builders, to protect the construction of highways, apartments and everything else and our entrepreneurs who and how they live from, who manufactures in BiH steel, whether they leave it on the domestic market or export it somewhere else, etc. etc. What is very important to us and what I asked the minister at the time and I am sorry that he is not here today and I am sorry that he did not answer those questions is very important, and that is that we must implement the reforms to which we have committed, which is above all and we planned to pass the law amending and supplementing the Law on Food, the law amending the Veterinary Law, the law amending the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, the Law on Wine and improving the legal framework for organic production. What in this case is that, in this case, only by regulating the legal and regulatory framework, regardless of what it looks like to someone and whose jurisdiction, what BiH's jurisdiction should be regulated, what is the entity's jurisdiction at least as far as agriculture is concerned, and since these are the strongest ministries we have in entities, it is clear to us that, as everyone recognizes it is very important. When we do so, we can contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of domestic production, and that is the only way we can achieve the protection of domestic production when it is competitive under these circumstances. We also lack serious campaigns related to the protection of domestic production, and I don't mean acting experiments or promoting a shopping centre or anything in BiH, protecting domestic production is exactly what we get these days by protecting Lithuanian, say, cheese, high-end ovens, is it non-vesin potatoes, potatoes. So these are questions that we can protect domestic production, and this is what we're going to say we're protecting you. The question is also when we had a recent report, so here we don't look at every time, the Central Bank on the state of imports, exports, and we're very much here to read a lot, how much we actually have, import something, how much we export and, in fact, that we don't need to distract people by protecting domestic production, because obviously these productions have or aren't, this one needs to be accessed reformably, clearly, and so I believe that, if it's already said yesterday, that the Council of Ministers is working on it, I hope it works and that we will soon get these solutions right here on the benches of the law. Only by passing the law can we solve these issues. Analysis, strategy, otherwise the issue of all the strategic frameworks that we bring, we have a strategy for anything, and here are some strategies that concern agriculture, 38 and some expire at the end of the year, some half next year. So I think that in this way we can all contribute to the development and protection of domestic production, but not in a way that gives people false hope, but to bring them solutions that will ensure their competitiveness, and then when you have competitiveness, you can expect to be recognized on both the world and your market. And otherwise, as far as all the issues you've raised through your discussions are concerned, it's a matter of identity, economic, here, in some way patriotism, the issue of brand development, so it's something that we don't develop in BiH, and then it's very difficult to achieve that you have the protection of domestic production if you're not protecting a local brand, but the question is how can we get to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2782	Mladen Bosić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2783	Thank you, Chairman. So, looking at the agenda of this session today, anyone can conclude that this House is not dealing with the most important issues affecting the lives of the citizens of this country. We had a second and third point of the motions to change some laws that certainly are not even close to the proit that needs to be solved and that we all know. This is an important question, this question concerns the lives of many people in this country, and this question needs to be considered. Yesterday we had the foreign trade minister's presence on the committee and I'm sorry I don't see him, I expected him to be here to repeat what he said yesterday on the committee, and he said a lot of things that could be discussed. First, he said that the poor conditions in agriculture are at fault for the entity ministries and lower levels, that's what he said on the commission. And to remind you that practically the same authority is at the entity level and at the level of the Council of Ministers and it is true that agriculture is in the jurisdiction of entities or canton, I don't know how exactly it is defined in the Federation, but protection and customs policy and imports, export at the level of BiH, means in the jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers, and it's a intertwined thing used to manipulate agricultural producers, because these in entities say here they won't be the ones in the Council of Ministers to solve your problem, and those in the Council of Ministers say no, it's not an entity thing, it's an entity thing and you don't have anything to look for here. So, we're obviously not going to help anything here, we're not going to solve anything, this is a complicated issue, but it points to a blockade of the functioning of the BiH government, at all levels, in terms of resolving what is, which would be a priority in every normal society and from that point of view, I think we should open that debate both at the level and in the entity parliaments and at the level both in this Parliament and in the House of Peoples with a debate on the jurisdiction at that level. And let me remind you, there are measures directly within the authority of the Council of Ministers and the level of BiH, which are primarily measures when imports, exports that do not relate directly to customs duties, extra-tariff measures for the control of goods entering BiH. I watched other countries use it when they come into crisis based on unfair, unfair competition on the outside, introduce additional measures of sanitary inspection and I don't know what, so we had problems here with how, let's say, in relations with Slovenia to solve this problem. Another security measure at BiH level concerns negotiations with the EU where there is a mechanism in the case of a crisis in domestic agriculture to allow changes to the rules in the agreement for a certain period of time until the crisis is resolved. So, I repeat, I don't think we're going to solve anything here in this House, as very rarely and we can solve anything, obviously decisions are being made at other levels and elsewhere, and not in this room, and so I would support the importance of this topic that will obviously not be solved here, but should also send a message to the agricultural producers. It is true that in Republika Srpska they are more interested, above all in meat products and red meat, because 39 is much more production there than in the Federation, I think that is the case with milk and milk products. It is important to clarify who is responsible for this situation and who can solve their problems, and one such debate would probably help people understand where to put pressure and stop being manipulated that the solution to their problems is elsewhere. And let me remind you, when there was a different composition of the government at the level of Republika Srpska and at the level of the Council of Ministers here, ministers from Republika Srpska were saying there was a solution there, the Council of Ministers is doing nothing to solve your export problem, I can't say it wasn't done by ministers from the Council of Ministers, so they directed responsibility to the level of Republika Srpska, but I think it would be responsible to stop manipulating these people, because it's obvious that their lives depend on such decisions, their existence and their future are related to what we should do, and it's obvious that we don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2784	Mr Miletić came forward for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2785	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Bosić, and I think he just said the right thing, but here's before I comment on these previous discussions, let me say a few facts about this issue. I want to say that, above all, in the past term Minister Šarović, and here is Minister Košarac, who is not presently missing, I think they are doing their job in quality and that indeed people have been agile and particularly current minister and are trying to move some things off the dead end. Another thing I want to point out, I think that this initiative, submitted by my colleague Denis, I think it's very good and that we need to discuss such things in BiH and I think that these issues are of the importance of BiH citizens, in this case, since we have about 130,000 farmers in BiH most of them, I don't know if you know it, is from Republika Srpska, the ratio is almost 2/3 versus 1/3, but regardless of the fact, means, above all, the population in Republika Srpska, who is involved in agriculture, who expect the help from the state authorities, I think we owe them. Why am I saying this? No international agreement between BiH, in this case the SAA, and other documents that treat this area cannot be more important than the existence of 130,000 people in BiH and means no one from the EU or any other organisation can be more important than the existence of people living in BiH. Since neighbouring countries, if I did not speak and take examples here where there are all such examples in the EU, introduce such measures, I do not see why BiH, here, we have heard about some products here, not to repeat myself, would not introduce such measures when it comes to agricultural producers in BiH. I think some of them are on their knees, we only mentioned some areas here, here, dairy, I don't know, it's a similar situation when it comes to Herzegovina, especially when it comes to plant production. I can't understand the fact that our state authorities in any way can't help agricultural producers, let's say, so that we cut off one part of the budget, cut our salaries, and let's say, let's say, for free of charge, or that at the beginning of the year, they can buy seed, that it's seed for them a bunch of states or some other privilege to come up with all of them in a way or in order to help them try to solve this problem and get out of the current problems they're in. What is important to point out on this occasion, I am convinced that in a beautiful country like BiH, in every part of it, means, from Herzegovina, from Kupres, I don't know about Bijeljina or the other side if you get to Bihac, we have so much agricultural unused land that it's a disgrace in itself and instead, and how scientists claim especially because of 40 pandemics, that agriculture will be one of the main sources of funds in the next 10 years of overall looking at economic activity in the world and Europe, not to take advantage of such potential as we have, it is a disgrace in itself. And instead of borrowing credit, here we had today on the agenda, not even much in charge, of borrowing a billion, and of dividing these people, of improving agricultural production, and not of firing people, but of receiving other people to hire in that area, obviously we're not able to do something or we're not on the right track. I will end my discussion in the following way, I ask the members of the commission or the commission to correct me if I am wrong, since yesterday we spoke with the Minister in charge, he only at one point and offered himself that he had prepared already one information that is currently in the Council of Ministers, and perhaps in that sense, if possible, I do not know that you are assessing it, either the secretary and you members of the College, if it is possible for the Minister, and I have offered to deliver information from this area with a proposal for measures. If Mr Bećirović agrees with this, that we may rename this initiative or formally at least change it in that sense, and I really don't think that this issue should be one of the issues that everyone in BiH needs to agree on, and that's the point of it, give my people around anything to have a unique position and to agree on something, to help someone in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2786	We've exhausted the discussion with this. So, the vote remains. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then he must be formulated as the conclusion written. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2790	It's a little horny, it's not my style, so it's hard for me, but I'll try. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2791	Maura, we're going to have to vote Mr. Miletić, so understand that.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2792	Okay, here, let me just, uh, change one or two words. It means that this first part, which is due to the BiH Council of Ministers, remains that in cooperation with entity governments, this is very important since primarily their jurisdiction, no later than 3 months, I would not leave this kind of time, given that the information has already been prepared at the Council of Ministers, but we can leave, from the day of adoption of this initiative in the House of Peoples of the Assembly, to deliver information in the parliamentary procedure, information on the measures of effective protection of domestic agricultural production in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2021-07-01-0.u2793	Here, you heard, let's go to the vote. [[Common discussion]] That can't be it, so let's go to the conclusion, so if we don't get through the conclusion we're going to the vote. At present 14 – voting for 6, versus 7, abstention 1. There's no general majority, so the conclusion didn't go through. We're voting on Mr Bećirović's initiative. Give me a vote. Present 14 – for 6, versus 7, abstention 1. There's no general majority, so the initiative didn't go through. So let's go to point 12. So it's about ratifications, so I suggest we bring together a debate on the 12th point statement on the 18th agenda, including item 18. Who's up for a proposal like this? At present 14 – voting 12 for, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
