ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2626	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you very much and open the 118. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 115. ==References== April 116. Meeting of 16 and 17. ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In April, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Members are apologised for today's session. Holger Bauer, Mag. Main and Ing. Reichhold. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Mr Klubobmann, Mr Khol, spoke on business. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2661	Mr President. You have read the names of three Members who are apologised. Member of Parliament Peter Rosenstingl, elected on the list of the Austrian Freedom Party, is not apologised. The place that he would have to take after the new seating plan, namely place 184, is not occupied. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is at the ÖVP!]] Peter Rosenstingl of the FPÖ is not present. He is not apologised, and we have reason to believe, Mr President, that Parliament will not come in the course of today. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A smartie!]] It is known that he has escaped by escape, as there is suspicion of fraud to private companies, but also in the area of the Free Trade Association. Since Rosenstingl was Landesobmann of the Free Trade Association of Lower Austria and Vice-President of the Federal Organisation of the Ring of Free Trade, whose Bundesobmann is Member Haigermoser of the FPÖ, who also holds the Presidency of the Inconsistency Committee, there is a political connection, as the Immunity Committee noted yesterday, very well. Mr President. I propose a debate on the following: In view of the suspicions and the report of the Immunities Committee, we must initiate the process of decommissioning as soon as possible. From today a 30-day frist begins to run. If the Member of Parliament, who was elected to the National Council on the list of FPÖs, does not appear during these 30 days without good reason, the plenary session should be discussed again in accordance with Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The National Council will then have to decide that it will have to exercise its mandate. Mr President. I suggest that this should also be discussed in the Bureau. ==References====External links== June, when the 30 days have expired, cannot come together - that is a holiday - the National Council should hold a special meeting specifically scheduled for this purpose at the earliest possible time, in order to give the above-mentioned invitation on that day so that the second 30-day frist begins to run. I would like you, Mr President, to note today's absence of Rosenstingls, so that this is enshrined in the Minutes, and at the beginning of each meeting in which Mr Rosenstingl does not take part, to point out his absence in order to initiate the procedure for the withdrawal of the mandate. I request that a debate be held immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2712	Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard the request to hold a business debate on the handling of § 2 of the Rules of Procedure. In this context, I would like to say that I have a letter from the Liberal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the basis of which Member Peter Rosenstingl was excluded from the Liberal and Democratic Group at yesterday's club with immediate effect. Mr Khol's request is to be put to the vote. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request for a debate to give a sign in this regard. - Thank you. This request was adopted unanimously. I use the opportunity to limit speaking time per speaker to 5 minutes. Please call for word messages. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Khol. I would ask you to make the other statements here at the Bureau. Please, Mr Khol. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2747	Mr President. High house! The suspicion is that, under the protection of immunity, Peter Rosenstingl, elected on the list of FPÖ, has woven a large, widespread, fraudulent bond of companies and companies and has misused the high reputation that a national councillor in the population and in economic life still enjoys, as has the high party offices he has exercised in the Freedom Party. After all, he was the club-cassier of the liberal parliamentary group, that is, he has the public funds that the clubs receive from tax resources, and is now with a alleged damage sum of 200 million schilling, as is popularly said, "paste" - that is, he has deprived himself of a prosecution. This suspicion is justified in such a way that today the Committee on Immunities will request that the immunity of Mr Rosenstingl be lifted. I believe that we in the House have a real legitimate interest in the fact that, in the view of this Parliament, the Constitutional Court of Justice will, as soon as possible, accept the mandate to Parliament Rosenstingl. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Member of Parliament shall receive the amount of 100 000 S, which has been laid down in the relevant law, on a monthly basis, up to the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court of Justice. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Paid!]] It is interesting, Mr Stadler, that you now know this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have read paper!]] I think you should have known this a little earlier and responded to it a little earlier. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Our club also has a club-cassier, in the person of Mr Georg Schwarzenberger, and I must tell you that as a clubman I am really glad that he is not being tried. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You've decided to have the execution order novelle!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not a reason for being cheerful. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Your speech is happy!]] Mr Rosenstingl was proposed and elected by you in this Parliament, he was a prominent liberal official. And it is not for the citizens of this country to say that they are making available to a volatile defiance agent a tax sum of 100 000 s per month. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We must hold a special meeting - or a normal meeting, at least at the earliest possible date - after the end of the first 30-day period, in order to open the second 30-days-frist immediately, even if this meeting must take place on one day when it does not come to us all. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Or a normal session!]] Before the end of the session period in July, we must initiate proceedings at the Constitutional Court so that the Constitutional Court can decide as far as possible already in July - i.e. without correctness and speed. And if Mr Rosenstingl is watching us somewhere about some satellite program now, I would like to tell him: All defiances have still been arrested! It is nothing so finely spun that it does not come to the light of the sun. He too will be arrested, and he too will be held responsible for his actions! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a Parliament, as the National Council of our Republic, we must be open to public debate. We have to ask ourselves: How could all of this happen? Was not warning signs ignored? What did a FPÖ official from Amstetten tell the party chairman of the Freedom Party in 1994? What led the party chairman of the Freedom Party in 1994? What has Mr Haigermoser, Federal Minister of the Free Trade Association, done in order to prevent this ring from being deceived by up to two million schillings? And we have to ask ourselves what the compagnon of Mr Rosenstingl, Mr Schreiner, is still in... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2877	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2893	Ladies and gentlemen! There's no need. The mandate must be recognized as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2920	Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e2938	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This brief debate is intended to point out that today's day begins with this hour the first of the 30-day cracks for the redundancies procedure. We will be able, in the President-in-Office, to resolve the issues of dates in this context - I am convinced - at least between four political groups without difficulty. And at the end of this procedure, Mr Rosenstingl will no longer belong to the circle of this House. He will change into the circle - I am personally convinced - of the accused and ultimately of the convicted. Ladies and gentlemen! In my first speech to this causa, however, I would like to say: The question of responsibility is not dealt with by this! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] They will still have to speak and answer in full in this context by the Freedom Party. For the Freedom Party was that biotope, in which - and today will still be discussed several times - the mixing of politics and private business could not be one but several representatives of the Freedom Party at all flourish. Rosestingl's volatile. He will not belong to this house in a few months. But those who have done business with him, they still sit here as before - when they rest to come to the plenary room! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] His friends are still here. And today we will observe very, very closely how they deal with this situation. We will listen very carefully to you, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European Free Alliance, what we have heard from you so far, was only whining self-pity and the harsh policy of the call: "Stop the thief! The others are guilty and not we!" [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Oils.]] You have the responsibility to take over! You need action! So far, you have failed to support the judicial system, transmit facts and return advertisements. What else you're doing in hours, you haven't done this time in weeks. I would therefore urge you, at the beginning of this debate today, to make every effort: Start by supporting the efforts of the judiciary now! Put everything open here and today! Explain what is a complicity of the Freedom Party! Don't let this prove, but you have the propriety and confess to your share in this context! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Start in your immediate area. You have needed more than a week to rule out Mr Rosenstingl from your group, probably calling him as your club cashier. To date, there is still no clarity in the public as to whether the club was actually the only one to which Mr Rosenstingl has not taken up. It's at least striking because he's gotten involved everywhere else. Only with you, shouldn't he have done that? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about your 30 million, you brother-in-law?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Haider! Be calm: With us independent auditors examine the devoted use of the funds. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Covered are your 30 million! No test!]] Let an accountant in your club! Finally, open the club finances! You owe it to the house, and you owe it to the Austrians! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] If you can't do anything else in this context, I would like to ask you: Think not only of your own officials, Mr. Haider, of whom you spoke so much yesterday, but also of those who have been brought by Rosenstingl and his colleagues for good savings! You have our sympathy, and you have to make it clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3026	I must announce the following: The Croquis, which I read at the beginning of the meeting, was next to the Dkfm Members. Holger Bauer and Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Reichhold reported as an apologies. This must have been a mistake or misunderstanding. Mr Ing. Reichhold is present, of which everyone can convince himself, and therefore not apologise. I call Mr Stadler. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3045	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is touching how Mr Khol strives to give the Freeman a further mandate. You've been doing this for 12 years, Mr. Khol. They'll give us one mandate after another. We thank you for helping us get back the Rosenstingl mandate as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The "wild" Member, Mr Rosenstingl, who is no longer our case - we have nothing to do with Gauners, unlike you, Mr Khol - will have to release this mandate at the earliest possible time. [[fierce contradiction]] We thank you for requesting a special meeting on this subject. [[Continued ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol said earlier that this was such a serious issue that it would not be possible to laugh at it. He has now gathered the whole Marizzi-Chor to jolly. You and yours don't have the right to play here as a moral judge, believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You and you should not play here in this way, you who have in your ranks people like your colleague Marizzi or the other Peter, the "red" Peter. Ladies and gentlemen! He has mistrusted 33 million, says his own federal office. [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] 33 million have misguided this man, and then he sits in here and plays the moral judge of the nation. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl was also a particular problem for our President. Since October, it has been known that an amount of 25 million schillings are being collected here in the house, a claim, handed down as an executive title to the Parliamentary Directorate, at whose head our President is sitting. The President of the Council did not once have the cut to understand my club or to bring Mr Rosenstingl to his attention. He said yesterday he couldn't take care of maintenance demands from some divorced wife. Mr President. 25 million are not maintenance demands of a divorced wife, believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a third-party debtor, you are responsible for the fact that Mr Rosenstingl has been able to drive his beings since October of last year! [[Newly lively contradiction at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The whole choir of the "Marizzis" is now excited. At the time, Mr Kostelka said that Marizzi had to resign. But he did not have the opportunity to move him to resign because he himself has problems with his club finances. That's the reason! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: This is typical Stadler! That's typical freedom!]] You lack the moral competence to align us because you are not even able to carry out the moral competence in your own club. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] You should rather go into your own today and take note of the fact that when we complete a case, the case of Rosenstingl, Parliament No. 184, give new moral requirements. They won't skip you, because you've been a party for years, unisono red and black, a one-party party of twilighters and sluggers - and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise it would not be possible for the most serious criminal cases of the Republic in which the taxpayer was damaged at billions, such as the building scandal that Mr Pilz and our party officer Haider have discovered, to fall into their era, and that this building scandal will continue to be covered by you. You have been using yourself for decades at the expense of taxpayers, where you could only do it. You should not worry about how we deal with a case of Rosenstingl, because we will do it exemplaryly today - you will experience it. They will be able to take this as a scale. As long as Mr Marizzi and Mr Kostelka sit in here, ladies and gentlemen, you should only take the example of freedom as a model, and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They tried three years ago to push the bomb causa into our shoes and stop us from doing so. You're wrong, but it was one of the worst. Today, you are trying to stop us with an ordinary gullible like Mr Rosenstingl. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] You won't succeed. Nor will the liberal reform project bring to a halt an ordinary Gauner like Mr Rosenstingl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3171	Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, actual corrections have been required. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have never approved actual corrections in the Rules of Procedure of my knowledge. At the next presidential meeting, I will examine whether the desire of the liberals and the desire of the SPÖ for actual corrections will be allowed in the future or not. I do not want to make a prejudice, and I do not want to go away from the practice so far. Secondly, I believe that even to a person - I also said this in the presidential session - who is suspected of having committed a criminal act, the expression "gauner" in this House should be avoided as well as the words "loyalers", "swein" et cetera. I'm asking everyone to stick to it. If we chose such a terminology, this would be the case. Parliament's reputation certainly does not have a positive impact. I'm not protecting anyone who's probably been guilty of criminal offences, but I'm talking about the language in this house. Thirdly, I would like to call on Mr Stadler to order if he simply makes the accusation of a criminal offence to a member of the House present here. This is not the case, and I would rather start a conflict in the effort to get the meeting over the stage properly than to get something like this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Like the Rosenstingl it is also displayed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's a difference!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Persecutor remains a culprit! 33 million are indicated!]] The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3241	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the level of characterlessness and unscrupulousness that we have just experienced here is an insurmountable one, and I must say quite frankly to you that it is deeply contrary to me to let me into a discussion with this Lord. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens]] I think it is an immense thing to do here and how easily someone is subject to criminal offences. I would not even do this in this form to Mr Rosenstingl, because I believe that this is a presumption of innocence. However, a comparison between Mr Rosenstingl and any other Member in this House and for himself is an immeasurable one, and those who say so know that too. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] However, I do not intend to go into this matter now, for another reason. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You already did it!]] I think that the debate on the Rules of Procedure is a misuse when it becomes contentious debates. I would therefore like to go into this debate, not from the current occasion, but from the form that has been referred to by the honourable Member, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have already responded!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Graf) Now keep your mouth shut!]] - No, I responded. I have responded to someone who insults this house, for such a procedure and such a way of speaking is an insult to this House, and I did not want to take that without contradiction. However, when it comes to Mr Khol's speech on the Rules of Procedure, it can only be agreed that it must, of course, be the interest of this House to initiate the procedure referred to as soon as possible. Clearly, this is not the interest of the Freedom Party, whose representative is Mr Rosenstingl, for otherwise the Freedom Party would have taken the opportunity to speak. For a party - which is probably right - which is really about clarifying things, should have spoken today by its Members in order to set the deadline run in motion - as has been said, if this party is actually interested in clarification. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Mrs Schmidt is no longer our Members.]] But not representatives of the Freedom Party have done so, but the clubman of the ÖVP. He's got our support. We, too, are interested to see a procedure initiated as soon as possible, which, as a result of which Mr Rosenstingl is aware of the mandate, is under way. This has nothing to do with the presumption of innocence, but with the innocent distance. Everything else is the case of the courts. In the course of the debate on the report by the Committee on Immunities and not in a debate on the Rules of Procedure, as the Members also have to judge or judge this matter. In fact, I do not want to create a different scale in matters which I consider to be correct from the content, but in which the form is not correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3337	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Same time of speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3355	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Khol referred to the Rules of Procedure, I first had doubts as to whether it was necessary at all to mount the beginning of the 30-day period here. Unfortunately, the course of this short debate shows that it was necessary. In fact, I would have expected such a request to come from the Liberal Party, that at least now, in this situation, it should do all it can to ensure that the necessary procedures can be dealt with quickly and that the links with the Freedom Party, which the media have made very clear, are clarified without delay. But it is somehow the tumble on the "i" that even now, in this situation, it does not observe the law of action itself. And it's really significant: Mr Stadler himself was forced yesterday in the Committee on Immunities, not entirely voluntarily, but because everything else would produce a bad look, after all, to the Committee's unanimous opinion that there is a political context. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Greens voted against it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You voted against! You didn't want to deliver him!]] Mr Ofner! There is a political connection. What does that mean, however, that there is a political connection? - It means: This is not an affair of Rosenstingl, it is an affair of freedom in Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] It is already the question of the pace and instruments at which you go to the investigation of scandals or the resolution of conflicts. Is it not the case, Mr Haider, that: You then act quickly and decisively and decisively when it comes to making internal critics mouth dead when it comes to shutting down whole country parties and then acting as a humiliating excuse? - That's where you show that you are obviously able to intervene in this party. Why not now? Why not here, then, to explain an affair that is really harmful to this house? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] And, Mr Stadler, where is the example, as you mentioned it, of your course? - Deputy Stadler! The opportunities have already been missed, this morning. And what was it like when you got to know about these circumstances? - And we are not talking about 1994 or October or December 1997 at all, but we are talking about the present, about here and today. Where, then, was the party observer after he had come to know about the circumstances? Would it not have been necessary, at least, to speak and answer this House and the Austrian people immediately? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Excuse me for being in Taipei!]] Mr Stadler! If you use here the division - which nobody else has joined here - of the "ordinary Gauners" and then you yourself agree to a political connection, then I ask: Then who are the other "ordinary Gauners" with them? And, Mr Stadler, one thing is still remarkable, and so things come back as they themselves have infiltrated and started: You have chosen here once again the division of the "deeds of the nation". Mr Stadler! You're in very good company. It was the first time in the history of the European Union. In May 1995 he argued with the same words in the direction of the Greens and the Socialists. He said: "We also want to clarify this, Mr Cap, in contrast to you. They are the sanctifiers of the nation!" - Like the words! And, Mr Stadler, Rosenstingl said something on 20 June. ==References== He said that the question of freedom was needed...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3426	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3442	... to stop the "socialist mismanagement in our beautiful Austria". [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - Deputies Rosenstingl left this beautiful Austria. Those who have acted with him in a political context are still here and obviously not interested in an investigation. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3481	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The case of Rosenstingl is certainly unique in its dimension in the history of the Austrian Parliament, but in the case of the liberals obviously not a single case, although they would like to make us believe it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's your husband doing?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How does the arms business work?]] The Liberals spokesperson announced to the banks a credit which he did not own. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is the arms business doing?]] - I hope you log these calls, they're all complaining! [[towards Parliament stenographs]] [[Call to the liberals:There is nothing to complain of at all!]] The Liberals spokesperson announced to the banks a credit which he did not own, signed dubious changes, which were broken in series, and yielded millions of amounts on accounts abroad. The traffic spokesman of the liberals is politically sought because of the suspicion that 200 million schillings have been in the past. - A truly honorable society, Mr. Haider, in which you are in! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Haider! You can't just clean yourself up at your predecessor or at your country party owner! [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's your husband doing?]] Peter Rosenstingl has been a Member since 1990 - you have been Federal Party Minister for four years, Mr. Haider! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has important party functions: He is the Landespartierobmann representative of the Lower Austrian Rings of Free Economics, he is an accountant of the Freedom Club and he is Transport Spokesman of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Countess, what is the arms trade doing?]] Dear Mr. Stadler! A speaker of a party is also a member of the so-called shadow cabinet. An honorable transport minister in the shade cabinet of Haider! And Mr. Haider didn't know anything. The self-proclaimed inspector of the nation is obviously unable to control his own party - or he wants to know nothing, according to the motto of the Chinese monkeys: to hear nothing, to see nothing, to know nothing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did you know about the arms trade of your husband?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should have your blood pressure measured more often!]] Very clean, Mr. Haider! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did you know about your husband's arms trade?]] But Rosenstingl is not an individual case with the liberals. There is the freedom of parliamentarian Meischberger - perhaps sports minister in the Haider cabinet - who is involved in dubious financial transactions, first of all condemned for tax evasion of 3 million schilling. - A truly honorable society, Mr. Haider, which you gather around! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your husband is not at the FPÖ!]] But that's not an individual case either. There is the Free State Council Fast - perhaps the Minister of Free Health in the shadow cabinet of Haider - whose employees have stolen data that the Salzburger "F" has thrown into chaos, on behalf of Haiders has been personally taken up by the "Ritters with the silky cord" of all the offices and after a particularly embarrassing submission spirit has been personally taken up by the leader. No wonder! In the meantime, he too has become a liberal social case by the renowned Salzburg doctor. He no longer has a bourgeois existence, he depends on politics and thus depends on his leader. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does your husband live on today?]] He's got debt at the state party, a broken man. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true! That's wrong!]] A truly honorable society, Mr. Haider, which you gather around! [[Lively calls in the liberals and counter-calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But that's not an individual case. There is Haider's man for the Grobe, Gernot Rumpold - probably designed interior minister in Haider's shade cabinet. Rumpold is in court in Upper Austria tomorrow, accused of a criminal attack and, as men are not squeaky for the gross, probably more than a sexual harassment. A truly honorable society, Mr. Haider, which you gather around! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This list can be extended by any means: Schimanek, Candussi, Rauter, liberal councillors who lead brothels, or the liberal councillor Böhm-Ermoli, on the right, who tried the uprising and then tragically ended by suicide. And who knows what Members Schreiner and Haigermoser still know about what is not yet known to this House?- Oh, my God! - A truly honorable society, Mr. Haider, which you gather around! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Countess! But he didn't do bankruptcy! You got it! Your husband has failed!]] One may: Not only do you call it the "Zie Mumbaier of Right-wing Extreme Terrorism", but you can still call it the "Zie Mumbaier dubioser politische Figuren" (Zie Mumbaier dubioser politische Figuren). - And with this you want to take power in Austria, Mr. Haider?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In view of the events of the last days and weeks, Mr. Haider, I ask you,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3743	The speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3759	... whether you don't finally want to realize what They have been announcing for weeks the political responsibility to take over and withdraw. That would be an act of political opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3786	Mrs Rauch-Kallat! I call you to order because of the expression "dubious political figures" towards a representative of this House. The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e3822	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! What we intend to do with this debate is to bring this 30-day deadline to an end, and to say that Parliamentary Rosenstingl is unpunished, so that we do not miss a deadline to say goodbye to it in the House - and not solemnly - in the House. But what is happening in this debate is partly unique and embarrassing. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's right!]] Mr Stadler - and I am indeed right, Mr colleague - mentioned the case that a Member of this House, a FPÖ manater who was the club-casher of the liberals - at the time of the act when he committed it, he was - it is assumed - and this suspicion exists - to have committed gross offences. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Marizzi?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] In the Committee on Immunities, it is not even possible for Members of the Liberal Group to confirm some political contexts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You voted against! Mr. Schieder! You voted against!]] Here in plenary, the executive or deputy clubman of the Freeman, Stadler, comes out here and says: That was an ordinary criminal - he used a different word that I do not want to use - that was an ordinary suspect, that has nothing to do with the Freedom Party. He even goes so far as to accuse others - unjustly accused - and he may say that all in this House, the President, the Parliamentary Directorate, only one group is innocent, namely the Freedom Party from which he was a member, and the liberal club in which he held the role of the club. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Like the Rudas! I quote Rudas!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Mr Stadler! Your attacks, your failures, even your calls, betray you, for every sentence, every word, every letter speak a clear language and show that you have a bad conscience. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We still have a conscience, not you!]] It is not the point of this debate to clarify everything. I just hope you won't continue saying: This has nothing to do with us!, but are willing to also help as a party, even as a club in the reconnaissance of this great, immense and terrible case. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Tell me! Explain it!]] Don't pretend you don't have anything to do with it! Klubobmann and Partyobmann Haider spoke about it yesterday... - No, I won't allow you anything in this regard! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you allow a praise?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The clubman and parliamentarian and party chairman Haider said in this context that he would create a glass party. - It fits, because he's already sitting in the glass house.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4007	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will speak next. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4025	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the discussion so far, it is very difficult for me to remain objective - especially when I think of the statements made by Mrs Rauch-Kallat. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP]] I do not want to, but you are asking me to present you with a list of the honourable society you are in. For example, they completely distance themselves from your husband's arms business. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to point out that for many years, for decades, Mr Höchtl has collected 30,000 S each month, an unemployed income, which made up millions of schilling. Mr Kohlmaier has received a double income of 200 000 s. And I could continue this list. But you're talking about the honorable society! - I really think that is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I want to be very honest, you can believe me! I am not afraid to admit here that I was very deeply concerned that a colleague we had in our group probably committed a criminal act. All of us have met this, ladies and gentlemen. I say, however, that it concerns a colleague whom we had in our group. Because we have done what we do in such a situation: We've done it right away! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where? When? Who? Where? When? Who?]] We have made it clear that we have checked, we have refunded the fine, and we have excluded the former member from the party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was justice, and it was a little bit too late. Only now has the prosecutor's office applied for extradition. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Justice is still coming today, and you can ask him why it took a week until the extradition documents have finally arrived. Another one, Mr Khol: You're going to run open doors with us if you think the detection procedure should start today. But you are such a good lawyer, you must know that not your Rules of Procedure or your Rules of Procedure will lead the 30-days-frist to start running, but ipso iure will start to run the 30-days-frist today. What you're doing here is a hard task that you've only done from political business, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's just as easy to see why you need a special meeting after the end of the 30 days. It is not necessary, because after the Rules of Procedure these 30 days begin to run, and this period ends after 30 days, but not only when you request a special meeting. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Reading! Read more in the Rules of Procedure! § 2!]] But I know you want to "buble" the dirt to us because you see it as the only way. [[Violent calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is quite clear that you want to strike political capital out of this Causa Rosenstingl, which is really an isolated causa. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! You do not need to worry that Mr Rosenstingl's income comes to someone in his dark circle, because, as you have already heard today, his salary has been collected. Mr President, Fischer, unfortunately we did not know, because it is not the duty of a clubman to intervene in the private finances of a Member. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] I can already imagine that it does not fit in with your concept that we have made a very quick order in this regard. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] That's nothing to laugh at, but I'll tell you something: We do not let ourselves be affected by you in our cleanliness line! We're not getting dirty of you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] They won't succeed! Your claims, your attacks are too plausible and too superficial, as if they could really harm us. We are not a party "sitting" and wallowing, but we are a party that reveals when something happens in its ranks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With what right Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka speaks of a "biotope" that is located in the Freedom Party and is supposed to thrive in abuse, I really wonder! For in fact, such a "biotope" is to be found in you, at the SPÖ - but that is not a biotope anymore, but that is actually a swamp, my dear Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4159	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4174	In the past, half the SPÖ group has sometimes found itself in front of the judge. - That's how it looks with you! That's the deepest swamp there is at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4201	Mr Andreas Wabl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4220	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler said a very interesting sentence, namely that an "ordinary Gauner" would not stop the FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure he's right with that. Because in FPÖ, it is a problem how to deal with "ordinary guilds" or with "ordinary offenders". I do not want to use the terminology "Gauner" because the assumption of innocence is also valid for Rosenstingl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why did you vote against the extradition yesterday? Why did you vote against extradition yesterday?]] Mr Stadler! What you have said today, Mr President Fischer, is that if you are a member of the Committee on Budgets, you are going to fail, Mr Stadler, to show exactly what the FPÖ is going to fail to do. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Readable in the law! Execute order! § 301! Read the execution order!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP has failed for years!]] You have a problem, and this problem could appear in any party, so you're right. It may be that a Member of this House is suspected of a deed. The question is how individual parties react to such problems. If they react with hatred, with accusation, they react with the wood hammer, do they react with unsavory settings like you, Mr. Stadler, encouraging the President of this House to violate the data protection? Is that your method? They always call by simple methods. If there is a problem, then the wood hammer is immediately to be taken in hand. They had a problem in Salzburg, for example. Follow: The whole party was released. Or: You now have a problem in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should ask Herbert Fux what's going on!]] - Mr Haigermoser believes he can at last argue differently, saying: You don't see it in the face that he's a gauner. So far, you've talked differently. So far, you have otherwise simplified, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. Mr. Haigermoser! You will not be stopped by little Gauner, for there will be more in your party. They will be stopped by the historical lies and by the historical untruths that you have every day in this house and in the public. That's going to be Your fate! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that I also have a terrible dissatisfaction when people are standing at this speaker's desk and with a certain joy of damage from the FPÖ - rightly - there is a mirror. But the question is a structural one: How does an authoritarian party react? Does she have a topic, or how does she react? - I'm telling you, the FPÖ is not sitting out. One flees with the suitcase, and the other goes to Taiwan in order not to have to start a topic because he can no longer control it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are so ridiculous in your argument! You're so ridiculous in your argument!]] The FPÖ has a structural problem and not a single problem. Mr Stadler and Mr Ofner, and the other members of the Immunities Committee, made this clear and clear yesterday. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why did you vote against extradition? Why did you vote against extradition?]] There is a political connection with your subject, Mr Stadler. - Mr. Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You voted against it, we found that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's what you're telling me! What was yesterday? How did you vote?]] It is so necessary when a person makes the untruth a political stylist when a political party makes the untruth a political stylist. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What was yesterday?]] I know that all parties and all people sometimes "smart" the truth. But they are in the middle of the lie.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4382	I do not have any further comments to make on this. The debate is therefore closed. [[Abg. Aumayr: What about the lie?]] - Look. Please accept the Minutes exactly, then you will find that Mr Wabl - I have mentioned this - did not refer to a person as a "lying person" but to a "historical lie". [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are free to make use of the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of the minutes, to ask the President for a call for an order which will undoubtedly be given if I have been questioned. At the end of this debate, it should be noted that, if the honourable Member, Mr Rosenstingl, who has remained away from the sitting today and so far, is not present in the course of the sitting, the time limit laid down in paragraph 2(2) of the Rules of Procedure will start to run. That concludes this complex, this debate on the Rules of Procedure. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4417	We'll get to the current hour. As a subject, it was proposed that: "measures in the area of the execution of the Federal Government to prevent agreements between construction companies to the detriment of the public sector" Mr Van der Bellen was the first speaker to state the reasons for this. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4445	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The constructions are compared with the affair of Rosenstingl almost a dry topic, but we can then discuss the previous topic further. The construction workers are relatively dry, although, of course - only to remember this - hundreds of economic politicians are now in operation, house searches, seizures at - if I am not wrong - 80 companies were made and dozens of prosecutors and investigators are employed. At the same time, there is at least a special audit by the Court of Auditors at Vienna Airport. This is already a new dimension in the field of numerous stories and "history" around the construction industry in Austria. Compared with this, the many or most of the existing construction monkeys were basically almost lappalia, small corruptions, small bribery monkeys, small inconsistencies. Illegal travel invitations to the Caribbean were, as it were, already the top. All of this is small-scale compared to the suspicion that price agreements are now being made in a large style. This is new, Minister of State! Peter Pilz has launched an avalanche of which he is probably surprised himself. I would mention this because Mr Stadler tried earlier to give Mr Haider a certain amount of "copyright" to the discovery of these constructions. This is certainly not correct, Mr Mag. Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes!]] Mr Haider has "put himself down" but in the near future he will have to do other things, that is to say, the discovery in his own ranks. Federal Minister! I am a little surprised because - my knowledge - there are no official statements from you on this subject so far. I should like to remind you that this is not a cavalier crime. Infringements against the antitrust law are criminal penalties if they are serious enough, and this also applies to submission cartels. Fraud - and as a rule there are suspected of fraud - is, of course, criminal penalties for commercial fraud, namely procurement fraud. And last, but not least, damages arise because all the offences that have been shown so far, when they are proved, are not delayed because the limitation period begins to run only when the injured person gets knowledge of them. Minister Farnleitner! You are, at least as far as the Federation is concerned, the prime minister responsible, and we expect you to answer the following questions: First: What do you think about the current antitrust law? What to Remember Do you have to do with regard to antitrust and antitrust? - You know, as I do, that Austrian antitrust law is inadequate, especially in the sense that, in extreme cases, criminal law can be applied, but that there are no pre-class sanctions. There is no antitrust office that deserves this name, there is no antitrust office like that in Germany with its own investigation rights and investigation powers. Secondly, I do not know how many Members have received this letter, but I have received from the President of the Association of Industrial Construction Companies of Austria, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pöchhacker, recently received a letter that is very interesting in several ways. Among other things, the President of the VIBÖ says: "Rein morally" would justify this unilateral pressure - he means the state's demand monopoly - "cartel-like behaviour in the sense of an emergency." I would be interested in what Mr Hazelsteiner said about it, but above all what you, Mr Minister, say about the fact that the public hand behaves in such a way that "purely moral" this reaction of the construction industry is justified. Thirdly, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pöchhacker believes that the "one-sidedest bidder philosophy" of the public hand - that is probably also the federal government - is "the real cause of the misbehavior of many companies". - All these are literal quotations from the letter. - It's not a new situation, it's just as it was 15 years ago. Mr Pöchhacker presented an article from 1985 on which he said: "From almost 40 years of professional experience, I doubt that the conditions will change. They find" - I, the addressee - "in the supplement a publication by me from 1985, which describes exactly the same circumstances and conditions as we have found them recently." I arbitrarily take out something to show what conditions these are, for example - I quote literally - "the attempt to neutralize the competitive advantages of industrial construction companies that benefit the customer through the division of large projects into many Shareable Lots." - The customer is the state in this case. I quote: "This process in motorway or power plant construction can only lead to costs and loss of quality." - What do you say, Minister? You are responsible for the award practice in Austria! Fifth point: "This pressure," writes Mr. Pöchhacker - he means the low-cost bitter philosophy and the lack of prequalification procedure for tenders - "is now trying to reduce almost all companies, and that certainly from emergency, by imagination in calculation, so by speculation. Each company hopes to achieve a better billing result after the award of orders by mass increase in positions with better prices and loss of too low-calculated services." This is not what the Greens say, not what Dr Pilz says, but what the President of the Association of Industrial Construction Enterprises says. You probably can't become even clearer. What do you say, Minister of State? You are responsible for the award practice! Sixteenths: If the concentration process continues this way in the industry, we will have two groups in Austria: one group is the construction group of Bank Austria, the other group is the construction group of colleague Haselsteiner. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: A discreet man!]] How are you prepared, Minister? Do you believe that the antitrust law and the current awarding practice are the right answers to this new situation? And finally, seven: Claims for damages. What have you done so far to claim compensation from the companies concerned? - It is basically indifferent whether this is millions or billions, a damage has occurred. Ladies and gentlemen! The impression that arises is that over years, if not decades, illegal practices have been tolerated in the darkest circle of a construction industry, which in the past on the one hand referred to the red sphere of influence - Landesbank, Bank Austria - on the other hand to the black sphere of influence - credit institution. The only thing that is new in my eyes is two things: that in addition to the red and black construction companies a third is established, in the future probably the second large construction group, namely the Hazelsteiner Group, where it is still to be clarified whether its companies have behaved differently in the past than the ones already mentioned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Has he reported everything to the Inconsistency Committee, the Haselsteiner? That's what I need to know, according to Khol! After Khol I have to know!]] What is new is - this is perhaps a "merit" of the liberals; "Religious" of course between quotation marks - that the stories around Mr. Rosenstingl suggest the question whether the same practices as in civil engineering have not been torn down in the same way as in civil engineering. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Has Hazelsteiner reported everything – question mark -?]] The development of representatives of the liberals in housing cooperatives, Mr Haigermoser, remains to be clarified. It remains to be clear whether the head of state of the Lower Austrian Freemans can be built a house by liberal housing cooperatives. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Has Bartenstein reported everything? – Is the question too!]] Mr Haigermoser prefers not to listen to what I understand well. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm just asking!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: (in the direction of Abg. Haigermoser) The questions are so stupid! You need to ask more intelligently!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner) Everyone's stupid except you! Do you know what you are? – You are torn, Mr. Hazelsteiner!]] Minister Farnleitner! I think that's enough questions for a first round. They must act as the Federal Minister responsible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4582	On the subject of the current hour, Mr Federal Minister, the opinion provided for in the Rules of Procedure is to be delivered. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4600	Mr President. High house! I am of course pleased to be able to comment on the questions raised here, but I would like to point out, with regard to the Federal Ministry Act and the powers known to all Members, that the Federal Chancellor's Office, the antitrust office and its implementation of the Federal Minister for Justice and most of the matters raised in the incriminated case are again responsible for awarding them to another minister. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't look like that!]] However, I would like to speak on this subject because it is a very important area of policy for us for several reasons. First: In my house the German high-rise construction and the federal road construction are running. In my home, the activities which I do not have to influence are the Federal Procurement Commission and the Federal Commissioner; both are responsible for complaints relating to procurement policy. High house! We have looked at the orders of the past few years in the state building. In this area we have to deal mainly with small orders, there are only a few cases with a total order of more than 20 million, and it is quite clear that we can only put up with the problem of price agreements there - whatever we do - by having as large a bidder as possible and not publishing best bidders. We have intense competition there. Generally speaking, the construction industry itself: It is important to distinguish clearly between those companies which carry out mainly personal but not investment contracts. In this area there is more intense competition, and I am aware of more complaints about robust competition than of the possibility of price agreements. This is the case through the open circle of suppliers, which is perfectly clear. There are difficulties in another area. But I'm staying in federal building. We have also made it possible for us not only to invite the most open candidate groups, but also to ensure strict secrecy among the best bidders, but also to provide for a building control department which works in this area in all respects and which also carries out a commission for collisions. In the area of federal building - I could take out individual cases too - there have been mainly "Peanuts" contracts for farms that are accused of agreements. I say only to my area, so that it is clear - you can prove it all - that: In the last three years there have been 610 orders, 524 million total, the company SBG has a contract with 15 000 S, the Terrag-Adaag about 120 small orders with a total of about 18 million Schilling. I said what we intend to do in this area. The practice clearly states that we must not be afraid that these practices are taking place. Second area: Road construction. It must be clarified: Everything that happens in the Federal Roads area on the ground is within the responsibility of the Heads of State and I am not directly affected by it. Next point: Road companies: ASFINAG, ÖSAG, ASG have their internal controlling, and the accompanying control commissions by independent third-party experts are also subject to the condition law. I can only say: There have also been repeated repetitions of calls for tenders in recent times, as the authorities involved had the impression, because of the similarity of the offers, that there could have been agreements. High house! In this area, therefore, a responsible policy of the executive bodies can be sufficiently opposed to all the signs that point to agreements. If agreements are reached, if they become known to officials, if they take place in outsourced companies, there are mostly long lists of flaws, ex-post checks, and then large parts are recovered. Last point: The whole of the areas I have attracted are subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. Now on the specific questions you have raised to me, Mr deputies. Your question regarding the antitrust law gives me the opportunity to address wishes to the Christkind of the legislator. In the light of European competition policy, it is inevitable to make some changes to Austrian antitrust law. I have repeated recently, but without a positive response, that there must be changes in the area of appeal law. What does it make sense if I have a competition department in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is not allowed to complain itself, but has to go to the financial procuratorship? - First point. Second point: The question of an independent, controlling competition authority à la Kartellamt will prove necessary in Austria at the next innovation. We need this kind of independent report. It has so far been shown that otherwise we differ only on the issue of crime and do not create a corresponding mood by accompanying investigations. Next point: the description of the market in the quoted letter. I believe that what I have said about the construction of the Federal Government and what is increasingly happening in road construction, namely the quarries, is the answer to the concentration of demand. We wanted to see more people apply because it does not exceed a certain capacity. In addition: If we open the market just where we have more and more small businesses, the possibility of agreements is extremely small; but with huge projects, this danger always exists. State of award practice and structure in the industry itself: I believe that the wave of concentration has now broken out across Europe. In the United States, however, we already see counter-currents again, and many of the conglomerate companies resolve again. In Austria, on the one hand, we will necessarily have structural adjustments through overcapacity in the construction sector, and above all the medium-term dimensions - in the case of concrete construction events in the areas I am responsible for - I cannot see this in particular for a growing economic situation. We will have to consider new projects in the street sector, for example. I do not think that price agreements are an emergency action against the public. There has been the following theory - I may recall the seventies and eighties -: If only the construction sector was used as an instrument of economic policy, there was almost an over-requirement, and the control took place via an answer from the market. Today I cannot recognize the emergency defence argument because of the strategy I have chosen. Last point: I therefore have nothing to say about the obligation to compensate for the area for which I am responsible. This will be answered in the case before the Court. Therefore, total: It is a daily effort - at least in the areas for which I am responsible - to resist the temptation to judge and judge things. But I do not think that we can draw general conclusions. My impression from the two-year work in the house is that by more caution we have created a mood for the awarded officials and the accompanying checks I have mentioned, in which one cannot talk about - see the price index of the construction industry, see the results of the construction industry - that the public building has become a "bonanza" in which one can serve, but it has just weakened the private demand component in which extremely low margins are worked. - As far as my answer is concerned, Mr President, Mr Hohes Haus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4638	Thank you, Minister of State. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time according to § 97 GOG is known: 5 minutes. Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4662	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, your statements and your replies showed a strong defensive position, both in terms of tone and content. You should have just - and you have illustrated this to us by your behaviour - been quite kneeling in front of what is happening every day in the construction industry, where, although "Bonanza" is not at work alone, it is common to use it daily: for economic reasons, for job reasons, for employment reasons. You want to share the profit. But at whose cost do you share the profit? - They then pay as a public hand, we pay as taxpayers a total of billions of building cartels, while on the other hand we provide much lower amounts, namely only one to two billion, for the National Employment Programme. This is, for me, the essential core. Here we have more or less to look at every day, draw the money out of the public tax register every day, but on the other hand, we get the money from those who need it most, we save on those who already suffer from the savings packages anyway. Very concrete: It is not the first time that a building scandal in this House is the subject of discussion and is being discussed and answered here. It is not the first time that headlines are storming in the newspapers. No, no, no, That's already part of the use, that's everyday business. That's why it's particularly depressing for me that you're so defensive, so reticent, and think about it: After my goodness, we're going to do something! Desire for the Christian Child, change of the Cartel Act. They react very defensively with Christkind wishes. For me, this is the abjection of politics towards what is known as boomafia. Why did it even come to light? - Not we in Austria have revealed and disclosed the current building scandals. No, no, no, Where was this possible, where did this happen? - In Munich, in Bavaria. Why? - It has structural backgrounds. In Bavaria there are prosecutors with twelve persons who conduct investigations specifically on this subject. In Bavaria, in Munich, twelve prosecutors work with a special order "Examining the building business". According to a report in the "Report" 14 days ago, a prosecutor and an investigative judge are at work throughout Austria. Now there is a mass razia, 80 companies are being searched through, now 48 officials are on guard, but the structural problem is that we are under-occupied, both by the prosecutor and by the economic police. This is a structural problem which, in addition to the antitrust law, must in any case also be given a solution. My colleague and predecessor, Mr Anschober, has also been talking to the Minister of Justice in this direction. Minister Michalek said: My goodness, that's personnel savings. We can't afford that! I wonder, Can we afford to see billions of this kind disappear annually through price agreements, discount payments, price agreements, over-off offers, through the so-called coffee house carousel in the building industry's cash registers? I think we need to invest in better control, not just in a better antitrust law. We must equip the economic police with the mechanisms it needs, and above all we must relieve the prosecutors of time, because it is not responsible that they are partly under such pressure that personal ties are broken. I only refer to the negotiations in connection with the Pyrn scandal. It doesn't matter whether it's the universal - for example, the power plant building in Ybbs, a federal building site where caught bills are created by 4 million - when a witness's life is threatened, then, please, it's no longer economic crime, that's white, brutal murder and death crime! The companies Porr, Stugag and others are being examined. There are currently 300 cartons being reforested. We must not reject it so defensively, as we must finally take political initiatives. We shall therefore request a committee of inquiry. It is not only necessary to provide complete information, it is not only necessary for this committee of inquiry, but it is necessary to detect existing cartels and, above all, to correct the damage. We need a new rules on public procurement and public control.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4709	Please pay attention to the speaking time, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4724	The fact that this goes on proves to you entities such as the city of Linz, where, since such machinations have flown up, the bidders are kept secret, the offer is not open to the public, but only under the presence of three magistrates. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4748	Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry, but the speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4764	It's all right, you just have to have the will to do it. And this will is missing, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4797	The next speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last week on Thursday, 7th. In May, the Green Group did not leave the Vienna Council, but instead held the political debate on this subject, Mr Moser, your colleagues and colleagues would have been able to say all that you wanted to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But the behaviour of the opposition parties also in the city hall in Vienna shows very clearly that it seems to them that it is not only about real intelligence and the matter, but also, above all, I understand, Mr. Colleague, about a certain political theatre that must be staged around it. Let me say a very clear word to my group, ladies and gentlemen: We take the accusations of cartel languages very seriously in the Austrian construction industry. [[Abg. Oils: You can see that!]] If the judicial proceedings - I say so very consciously - are to be confirmed, the following must be noted: In this situation, the municipality of Vienna and the Federation would not be perpetrators, but victims of such antitrust languages. It is therefore logically entirely in the interest of the client - in the case you think it is the city of Vienna, or perhaps some other company in which the federal government is involved - that the accusations concerning agreements between individual construction companies are fully and without mercy. And to that we really confess ourselves clearly. But let me also make a very clear point on a second point. Both Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Farnleitner spoke very emotionally and objectively on a very difficult subject. I conclude, however, that Mr Van der Bellen spoke very calmly and objectively, not that the content would have been bad, and I also conclude from the fact that Mr Farnleitner spoke very calmly and objectively, not that the content of his speech would not have been good and he is already kneeling. With the same argument, I could say that Mr Van der Bellen, too, is already kneeling. This is not an argument, Mrs Moser. You should try to maintain a good conversation culture. A speech may well be quiet and objective, but it does not always have to end in a scream or in a whirlwind. I can also say: We, ladies and gentlemen, have absolute confidence in the control activity of the Control Office of the City of Vienna and the Court of Auditors, which we have used here in Parliament as an instrument of Parliament, but also in the independent courts. You, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition that has been united today, have already been repeatedly asked to hand over to the public prosecutor all the documents that indicate criminally relevant facts. I think this should be a matter of course. I suppose it has already happened to a considerable part, otherwise there would not have been as many procedures as you mentioned them before. But this does not always fit completely into the concept of your colleague Pilz at the Vienna City Hall, for example. He probably has to profile himself there or there again, because the friends at the federal level no longer love him as much as they used to. And then there's a certain tactic. You don't go to the public prosecutor's office right away and you're going to get all the things you know, you know, but there's some sort of thing left out to have a media appearance back there or there, to be able to say something again in a TV show, so that things go there for as long as possible. In this way you can then profile yourself as a detector - at least your colleague, Pilz -. Whether this is the case or the taxpayer is so special is another question. So if you want to help really find out here, I would ask you to take an active part in the investigation work. I ask you once again, including you from the Green Group: When it comes to the investigation of painting in the construction industry, you hand over the documents you have to the prosecutor's office, because they belong there. Ladies and gentlemen! The city of Vienna has already reacted very quickly in this causa, when it has been based on justified suspicions, and you can be sure that this will continue to be the case in the future. We know that the control mechanisms in the city of Vienna have been and will be continuously improved and that there is already another concrete, comprehensive catalogue of measures by the city's construction management. Ladies and gentlemen! If I may address the subject of political cleanliness very briefly, I would like to refer to what Mr Rosenstingl said about this earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4848	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4863	In this context, I only remember one election poster I saw many months ago, so nice blue: "Just honest, just Jörg."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4891	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Swimper. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4909	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One who has otherwise also been one of the self-proclaimed reconnaissances, who has stood on the front line against alleged corruption and presumptuous cleanliness, is missing on the speaker list today. He has now given the company name from the blue dusk circle in which he worked, "Holiday Home", "Free Living", "Free Future", a completely different meaning. But the companies still exist. I therefore mention this because, of course, for the FPÖ members who have now replaced him, for example, for Members of Firlinger, who are still going to speak today, the Supervisory Boards and the Boards of Commissioners who may have become victims of machinations are immediately to blame, but in the FPÖ, of course, no one is to blame who is located in the dark circle of their companies. If Mr. Rosenstingl together with another FPÖ member commander is the "Holiday Home" if a builder from the dark circle of FPÖ is involved in this "Holiday Home", if this "Holiday Home" is 25 percent in spite of inconsistency according to housing law for construction companies in a housing cooperative [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] "Free living" is involved, Mr. Jung, and there 75 percent are held by a foundation "Free living" where other FPÖ members are sitting in the board of foundations again, then no one is guilty, then only Rosenstingl is to blame for being a little girl in this braid. I'd like to mention that. But also the argument of the Greens in this matter is not very clear to me, Professor Van der Bellen. I have the impression, after your speech and even after carefully studying your various press releases, that you are not so happy at the action of Mr Pilz - perhaps from inner-party jealousy; such a thing should happen to you more often - because what you have presented here is actually the argument of the President of the Association of Industrial Construction Enterprises. They blame the possible victim, the client, the public hand. They argued as much as Pöchhacker. They say, of course, - and this is what the contracting authority has to say - that the price pressure exerted by tendering procedures is so great that emergency action is supposed to be taken. I agree with the Minister: I think it absolutely unacceptable to call for it. But you argue the same way. You are complaining here, Mr Van der Bellen, of the concentration in the construction industry, but then you take the argument that it is wrong to grant small constructions, although first small constructions also give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to participate, and second, small constructions due to the capacity that can offer more. And a larger number of potential providers, of course, make price agreements difficult, which is again for the benefit of the contracting authority. But you, Mr Van der Bellen - I quote you now from the press release, which I hope you will not disagree with - mean: "The practiced division of the large buildingless into smaller units has made it difficult to coordinate the commissioners." So you're criticizing that. "As a result of the award of large buildings, smaller companies could be threatened in their existence. But" - Originalton Van der Bellen - "I suppose that structural adjustment is still necessary." So what are they for? You're right now? On the one hand, you complain of concentration, and on the other hand, you say that structural adjustment is necessary. They are obviously in favour of the emergence of monopoly, where agreements are not necessary at all. I consider price agreements to be clear infringements of antitrust law, I consider price agreements to be infringing the German Federal Procurement Act, and I therefore consider price agreements to be criminal. The Federal Procurement Act contains a very clear rule: bidders of bidders who, with other beekeepers, are harmful to the client, against the good practices...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4949	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4965	... or have reached the principle of infringement of competition agreements, are to be terminated. We have taken the relevant legal measures. Everything else is criminal and must be examined by the courts and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e4992	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5010	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable for Members of the Swimmer to call the fact that freeman can be represented in a housing company a criminal act, because this allows him to conclude that he sees a criminal activity in these areas from the outset due to the poor experience of ÖVP housing cooperatives such as WBO and WEB. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only ask you, Mr. Schwimmer: Finally, with your mandates, withdraw from the shops you claim to be corrupt from the beginning, then you are credible when you talk here! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] However, it is not true, Mr Van der Bellen, that in the case of building scandals or agreements in the construction industry we would have ascended to your train. That's an old theme. Only: You have not yet submitted any documents that are valid. We are the only ones who have so far submitted to the public documents with the designated construction companies, with the signatures of construction leaders, indicating that tunnel constructions, road construction agreements between the companies in the course of the supply process, which is about hundreds of millions of schilling. This gives us the right to speak here and not to suspect that we are entitled here to appeal to you, Mr Federal Minister, not to come here and say: My name is rabbit, I know of nothing!, but to think about whether or not You have not even received an information in your ministry - I have already said this here - which includes these documents on agreements, on possible falsifications in concrete constructions, which have also been made accessible to me, and whether you are sure that your officials - I have formulated it carefully - have informed you about this writing entry. You will be fined if you have been informed of any errors and corruptions that we have brought to the prosecutor's office. Federal Minister! It is a fact that many things are of course not in order in the construction industry. It is not about why Mr Hazelsteiner is not allowed to speak here. That's not about it. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You don't have the last speaker list!]] Did they report to you so you don't bluff? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No, no, we wanted to surprise you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that there has been a lot of progress in the construction of subways. In this respect, there are good documents, Mr Federal Minister, for example a document that proves that there has always been a working group in the production of offers. There were always the working communities of the Vienna construction companies, which were located on site - of course the politically oriented companies; the Porr, the Universals, the Stuag were everywhere - and these working communities have formed up to ten sub-communities which, without doing a job, have collected 10 to 20 percent of the total. And that's the real money that was made. I wonder, Why does this not investigate a prosecutor's office when the documents are available? For example, it is known that a company in Upper Austria, Hero and Franke, which is owned by Philipp Holzmann AG in Germany, has entered a construction site in the underground construction and with low prices to disrupt the company, and was then bought out. 30 million schillings are in there! It's a nice business! But no one seems interested in this, there is no special meeting, there is no interest in following it. Or at Vienna Airport: In 1996, we made a fine on the basis of the reports submitted on construction executions at Vienna Airport, because there were huge construction costs, no building controls, no painting in respect of or non-compliance with the Önorm. I'll save you that in detail. Again, Porr, Universale and a few good companies have been there. Again in political darkness! Nothing happens again! I have the information here: In November 1996, we return ad to the prosecutor's office over hundreds of millions of Schilling dubioser Baulose at the airport building in Vienna Schwechat. Three weeks later, 9th. ==References====External links== In three weeks everything has been tested! And now it turns out that even the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the tax expert from the Ministry of Finance Nolz, with that chief taxed Baumafiosi,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5068	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5084	... which is now under discussion, in order to have made the major slides, has met privately, contrary to the information of his board of directors in his villa. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Unheard of! That's a swamp!]] No consequences, no prosecutor, no intervention by the economic police, no withdrawal of the board of directors, no replacement of supervisory councils, because there is a red and black harmony in the Vienna airport construction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is about hundreds of millions of schilling, which one thus invests in false channels, rather than saving the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5127	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Helmut Peter. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5152	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You see, our "reconnaissance" rides again. He has obviously overcome his shock and is going on again in the cross-field impact on all construction companies in Austria. The question is whether this is happening and whether this is factually justified. We should see the matter more differentiated. In the end, business success can be measured by profit, and competition in the construction sector limits this profit. Therefore, there is a constant temptation to increase earnings or profits by eliminating competition. There is obviously a game between the client and the contractor. If the client is a private person, the problem is not very big, because then a personal damage occurs. But if the contracting authority is the state, the matter is quite different. This led to a regular discussion of construction scandals in this Republic over the last 40 years. Members of the government parties - formerly called different, today they are called Eder or Swimmer - are always here to speak and say: It all has to be clarified! Of course! But why don't you tell us, Mr. Swimper and Mr. Eder, what prevention do you propose? I miss out on both of you proposals for prevention, so that in your sphere of power, where your parties' mandates are sitting, construction corruption is not possible again. Where are your proposals? That's the question I always ask. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] If, in spite of the ban, criminal acts are obviously happening, Mr Eder, then you have to say what preventions you will make. I'll propose a few. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] We're not gonna get rid of the police, Mr. Swimper. - It can't even make a gentleman swimmer that easy, even if he sees it very small-cared, I understand! The contractors are of course very easily involved in fraudulent infringements, in price agreements, distance payments, cartels and the like more. Uniosities of wrong accounts are often a dispute between private and private individuals. But the market pressure and the yield situation in the construction industry will already be an opener to the fact that, as the ultima ratio to which one should not grasp, one nevertheless decides on price agreements. But what is the negligence of the contracting authority? - The lack of control, the lack of tender, the friendly economy: We're going to judge it! - These are the things we need to discuss! If a construction company cheats on me as a private entrepreneur, she cheats on me personally, and I have to pay the "deppen tax" in this way. However, if a construction firm makes excessive bills to the State due to the business of friends with contracting authorities, it is the responsibility of the company to follow this up. Unfortunately, the Eder and Swimmers have not made any proposals on how to change the direction of construction, how to improve control. I'm not suggesting that you don't want it, just, you didn't say it. I believe that the wrong policy guidelines in procurement law are one of the main errors on this whole subject. We have limited tenders in Austria, much too many regional calls for tenders. The cantonist, the regional community spirit is concerned: Only the construction company in the municipality can get to the train. There are too many restrictions on competition in Austria. In the end, this can only be right for the construction industry. There is no better thing, Mrs Fekter, than being a monopolist at home, because then there is no competition, then the price is not under pressure. So there is too little building and too much political influence. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ, which are very many mayors, how much influence do you take on building awards directly, every day, weekly, again and again! I am particularly concerned that the public sector is obviously benefiting from corruption. It really becomes criminal, that is enough in the area of crime, because you really have to deal with the courts. Only: The prevention to prevent the courts from having to work at all is missing. Where are the solutions? Checking You are the awarding system in all the bodies in which you sit and in which you bear responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Do you clearly separate the best from the cheapest bidder? Stop political and regional policy interventions that this or that company must do! The employment situation and unemployment in Austria are uniform and difficult to define by community. Public contractor statistics could very well indicate whether the same contractors receive the contracts in the municipalities or regions. This could create a lot of transparency in this area. Of course, I agree with Van der Bellen that there is a need for priority education in the public prosecutor's office in order to get a real grip on the fight against corruption. The antitrust law we introduced in Austria only five or six years ago is a antitrust law of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers. You've got an association charge, they've got a lot of it in their hands. Such a antitrust law has wanted ÖVP and SPÖ, and unfortunately it is too bad. Let us therefore speedily change it! On the agenda, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5229	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5244	We cannot go over to the agenda because corruption undermines the security and stability of a country, at the end of the country itself.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5272	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor. - It's been re-registered. - Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5287	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is an old and sad fact that wherever public contracts are awarded, where taxpayers are to be spent in millions or billions, there is always a certain tendency to abuse and corruption, and also because of the circumstances of the Member of Parliament Peter, such as the fact that no real claimant is there that the individual citizen, who cannot defend individual citizens, is suffering financial difficulties and makes no provision for civil damage to taxpayers. In addition, the typical Austrian system: There are - and you know that, Minister of State, as well as I do - political ties. It is understandable that, as a general rule, the large construction companies are very clearly assigned to the political parties - not just the government parties. There are, of course, possible conflicts of interest. Since it seems almost impossible to reduce political influence, it would be time to show quite different principles at least in the matter of disclosure. As we all know, the award of the contract itself is almost an invitation to make excessive offers. There is the rat tail of very unpleasant and harmful accompanying appearances, such as the ads in party newspapers and the like. Federal Minister! I think you should express yourself on this already, and here and today, as the main priority is the affair of Rosenstingl/FPÖ, because there is a serious suspicion that you had documents before. I think it would be necessary, given today's debate, for you to comment on it. Mr Eder! I am asking you whether it is really the most important question of inconsistency when a mayor of Vienna advises the construction companies that they are supposed to sue the deck. I would imagine the reverse: to order the construction companies, and urgently, that they should put all the documents on the table and provide "glass cash registers". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it is so far in this Austrian system that one can no longer deny that, in a specific case, it has really been misused, then the next typical Austrian step happens: You take out a culprit and stage a "beautiful process". Then it is often even the prosecutor who, as in connection with the Pyrn-Autobahn-Affaire and in connection with Mr. Talirz, says from the outset: It's probably an abuse of first rank, but that's not punishable! I ask you, Minister of State: Do you then claim the civil claims, the right to financial compensation of taxpayers? Did you deal with the Financial Procuratorship? I think it would be necessary. It is bad what is happening in this country, especially through the construction companies that are close to the government parties. But, Mr Stadler, what is happening now certainly still sets the crown on the whole: If, in a party such as the FPÖ, there is still a lot of trouble in a party such as the FPÖ, if a party observer is alerted in the spring of 1994 to maladministration in the construction sector at the FPÖ-near construction company "Holiday Home" and then nothing is still being done, then I really have to ask in the interest of this country: Why can party-related construction companies such as the FPÖ-near "Holiday Home", which even builds the party headquarters and the house of the party keeper, still pay taxes? Ladies and gentlemen! It is bad what is happening with the government parties, and it would be bad if the Federal Minister did not comment on it again. But it really becomes unbearable and it is state-politically dangerous when a party that has authoritarian structures, otherwise with cleansing actions...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5333	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5349	... acting very quickly, performing the same kind of corruption and mismanagement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5376	The next speaker is Mr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5391	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer referred to the address of Mr Haider: "The deck rides again." - We had one like that in Salzburg, too. He announced the fight against the Mafia. In the meantime, we've chosen him. I would like to insist on everything: Mr. Haider, Member of Parliament, has been subject to criminal proceedings by a recognized staff member of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Dr. Nolz. I reject this assumption with all determination and with all repressiveness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Chamber of Labour recently published a price survey on the pricing of Austrian driving schools. One thing was soon clear: There were identical prices for identical services. - There was also a suspicion of price agreements. Why am I saying this with all the clarity? - Because the problem of price agreements is not limited to the public sector, but takes place daily at the expense of Austrian consumers also in the private sector. On the one hand, the public hand, the taxpayer, is damaged, and on the other hand, it is in the private sector of consumers. We must therefore ask ourselves in general whether the legal instruments we have in this area are at all appropriate to prevent such abuses. I fully agree with Mrs Petrovic when she says that it is bad if that is true, what is claimed, but now it has to be proved. The theme of the current hour is "measures in the area of the execution of the federal government to prevent agreements between construction companies to the detriment of the public hands". - The accusation: Restriction of price competition in order to obtain public or public contracts. It's about reaching out for public contracts. One speaks of the biggest and longest case of fraud - in relation to the capital city of Vienna. The Social Democrats will, on the one hand, use all the means to ensure unconditional information, on the other hand, we are of course also required to check whether the relevant legal instruments are suitable for this purpose. The Austrian antitrust law - and this is primarily the case - regulates cartel types, cartel contracts, but it is not a right against restrictions on competition. It appears out of date. Therefore, it is asked how submission cartels can be assessed in the future. This requires a civil, antitrust and criminal assessment. Civil law is clear: The Supreme Court has found that such cartels are illegal and unlawful. But is a submission agreement criminally a fraud? - Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is already a problem, because for the complete fraud, the element of action of the "supply damage" is required. Can this damage be determined or not? Even if there is evidence, who measures the property damage? - In any case, the Austrian criminal law doctrine assumes that submission cartels should not be discussed under fraud considerations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Instead, we should make fundamental considerations about the introduction of our own criminal record for submission agreements in the antitrust law and at the same time discuss fundamental issues. For example: Is there a need for criminal protection in order to enforce competition law? Is our judicial organisation capable of pursuing illegal cartels? Should this criminalisation not be discussed in Europe, because there is otherwise a disadvantage for Austrian companies? We Socialists urge a reform of the antitrust law with the aim of creating such a crime. At the same time, this debate must also be held at European level. The aim should be: Ensuring competition, preventing price agreements,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5448	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5463	... Protection of the serious competitor, protection of taxpayers and Austrian consumers. That's what we're going to do!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5490	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5506	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are actually in a very strange political constellation: On the one hand, there are the so-called top decks of the nation, the "love" Jörg, who in turn has lost one of his agents, the "love" Rosenstingl, like so many others. He is now fully involved in cleaning up the many pieces - be they of financial or organizational nature. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's on Rosenstingl love?]] But imagine, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: On the other hand, even a greener of the Wiener Landtagsfraction, the "love" fungus - under quotation marks - makes him disputed his reputation, while the "love" Jörg in Taiwan treats self-conscious and state-bearing questions of the European Union. I understand that the Greens are behind a new topic - probably at the federal level as well as in Salzburg - because the environmental issues seem to have gone out to them. When I consider that the green club secretary, Sams, goes to the officials in Salzburg and asks what environmental problems there are, because one has to deal with the problems in the party that arise in the future, then I have to say: The Green Group needs a subject, and so it is 'heeded up' on this issue, and that is why we have to deal with this issue today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should actually have the ear at your base and get some suggestions there, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I'll come to you, Mr Peter. To avoid misunderstandings: I am absolutely of the opinion that irregularities, no matter where they exist - and this also applies to the award of contracts - belong to them, with all the consequence, without regard to any person. But I also believe that the affront of violations of law, of crime and crimes should be the task of the judicial bodies. You, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and of the Liberals, have even suspected the Minister of Foreign Affairs of not having acted correctly. But this cannot be the meaning of today's debate, that cannot be the meaning of your present-day exhibition, which you are producing here again. They are once again using Parliament as a political stage. They seem to want to use the transfer in the ORF again to make the mood. That cannot be Parliament's task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not condemn and accuse before we know if anything has happened at all! This corresponds to my view of law, to my sense of law and, as I mean, also to the sense of right of the Austrians. Prejudices have already been enough in Austria. It is written to the Greens and the Freemans behind the ears, including you, Mr Wabl, even if you don't get there so quickly. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] High house! In Austria - and this is what all experts confirm - we have one of the strictest award schemes in Europe. We have a contract law, a cartel law, releases, such as the bill of error of account, the general entrepreneurship decree, and many others. So we have an exemplary instrument, we only need to apply it accordingly, and to that we are, the relevant bodies are called! After more stringent controls to call for stricter laws, Mr Peter, I think that is not necessarily the situation we are in. Because I can't get rid of school because a student's dizzy, I can't cancel the phone just because it's a crime. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We don't want to do anything!]] It can't be that simple, Mr Peter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We don't want to abolish the construction industry, just corruption!]] [[Abg. Wabl: We do not want to abolish them!]] On what you have said to the oligopolises and to the monopolies, I must tell you that I am thinking of your colleague, Haselsteiner, who, in his dominant position in the market, has certainly never made a price agreement in his life and will never make this dominant position. Of course, Mr Peter! I'd let that happen to the reflections. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I'm warning you a little bit. [[Abg. Wabl: You may go to school too, but you must not be in control!]] With the blues, only a Doberman is left today by the Saubermen. Because of today's debate in which you are talking about administrative bloating, changes in the control system, I believe that your ranks, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens, are calling for more and more Dobermen to be left of the new self-proclaimed Saubermen at the end of the day. [[Abg. Wabl: What does "new" mean?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5657	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5712	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there should be two more ministers here today and give us the honour, namely the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance. And this for good reason. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: How about the Minister of Transport?]] I do not want to address your unqualified calls now, because I do not have so much time to speak, Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Wabl. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: My calls are an honor for you!]] Federal Minister! You have said that in your area there are some unbeautifulities as far as federal building is concerned, but essentially everything is palletti. I would like to draw your attention to this: Read the last Court of Auditors report on the construction of the Federal Government, on the ownership of the property! [[Abg. Wabl: We did it!]] If you need to read through the correct They actually come to a completely different view. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Do you also have a house in Lower Austria?]] Please, make the effort and read it! Please also read between the lines what the Court of Auditors has to say about this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to have the Minister of Justice here because he needs explanation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Koppler: Where is the Rosenstingl?]] He has an increased need for explanation - Mr Haider has already made it quite clear - why an advertisement which a small shareholder has reimbursed at Vienna airport in connection with irregularities in the case of building invitations to tender has been sent to the Republic of Austria. Yes, it is! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's where Minister of Justice Michalek needs information. There have already been a number of questions on this subject. Overall, the answers were not particularly satisfactory. Federal Minister! Please tell your colleague, he will receive further questions on this subject, until the answer reflects the actual circumstances as to why this procedure has been defeated and reaches the right light of the public. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now to the airport, ladies and gentlemen. Here, too, Minister Edlinger would be required to provide information, for one thing is clear: Mr Haider has not said that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has committed a criminal act, but he has very probably addressed a very serious issue. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Rosenstingl!]] That's what's in the "Press" of 7th. It's clear on May. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who's flown?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Who's flown?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where?]] Hard questions, poor answers to the building scandal, which I believe is not a purely building scandal, but a tender scandal and a bidder scandal. The role of Mr Nolz's head of section is already being questioned, which - which is absolutely unusual for a senior official - met Mr G., Mr Graf, owner of the company SBG in his private house, and one cannot understand what was actually being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! This is in need of information, and we demand that it be clarified. It is not just this lip confession of several parties: Yes, we have to check exactly, we have to make it clear, if nothing happens, if then advertisements at the prosecutor's office do not bother me, nothing is happening to you in the sand, and within six weeks the thing is done. - It can be, please, not! I would therefore also have expected the Minister of Finance to inform myself of the role of Mr Nolz in the Supervisory Board. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I come to the conclusion: In my opinion, many people at Vienna Airport have failed: First of all, these were the political parties of the majority of the government already last year in the Court of Auditors Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where did you fly?]] At that time, together with other opposition parties, we wanted to invite Mr Lechner to the committee as an expert. That was rejected, because it was walled, because Mr Brix found clear reasons why Mr Lechner should not be invited. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Which party were you with at the time?]] Now you need a second opinion - ladies and gentlemen, that's terrible! - so you can relieve the board of directors. What else do we need? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One should finally confess in this Republic that what one represents here on this pult is actually being implemented in fact: to control until the conditions are on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5904	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now come to speak. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e5932	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're very knowledgeable today!]] On behalf of the Austrian construction industry, I would first of all like to say that the Austrian construction industry is, of course, committed to competition, but above all, I would like to stress that we do not want to tolerate it and to tolerate that institutions of our societies, employees of our societies, violate laws. I see in this, Mr Van der Bellen, no moral margin. We have always decided to criticize existing legal regulations, to propose improvements, to point out what we believe could be better regulated. But we confess that we have to live with that rule that is in force, and that we cannot anticipate what we want. We don't want to. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe this, is the concern to clarify the suspicions, to seek and find to a very, very substantial extent with the companies concerned. And we will also make our contribution to this. I have made this a start in order not to be suspected of using my mandate for a desirable defence of my professional group. But on this occasion I already allow myself to correct at least a little bit, Mr Van der Bellen, and I address myself with the request to forward this to Mr Pilz primarily to you. I do not believe that it is up to the Greens or the Liberals to continue to reproach Mr Haider, Mr Stadler and so on and to accuse them of unfair methods of politically unreasonable methods if we use the same methods ourselves if we believe that this is a result of political success. And I just want to hold on: Mr. Peter Pilz has done this to an unprecedented extent. It may still be that the whole thing is being built up like a continuation series on television to increase the tension. That may still be legitimate. But the generalizations, the lump-sum convictions, the pre-condemnations, this all-in-one-pot throw after the foreign exchange, something is already going to be suspended, that is what Mr. Peter Pilz has learned from Mr. Haider. But he will never be as good as Mr. Haider. Mr. Peter Pilz should know that, and that is unpleasant. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're right!]] I think you, Professor Van der Bellen, should read and track the statements and accusations made by Mr Peter Pilz, but know that the billions that Mr Pilz places in the room as a damage to the state must be somewhere. It must have occurred to you in some form - even though most of the people in this House are acting economically - but I do not think you have noticed that the construction industry has experienced a unique, unprecedented pleite wave. Maculan was just the highlight of that. Where are the billions? - Did they go somewhere, they disappeared? - Tell me where, and then, of course, I'm willing to make every contribution to follow these tracks. But you, Professor Van der Bellen, and your colleagues know that there are no such billions of Mr Peter Pilz. They know that the construction industry, with its best enterprises, generates returns of up to 2% per year. They know that most of them are negative and therefore billions of profits at the expense of the state cannot be said. And one last one. What could we improve? - I think it would be a way of starting to take up and discuss what we have long wanted from the construction industry, either a prequalification procedure or compliance with the best bidder principle. One of them! It is not about not pre-qualifying and automatically giving the order to the cheapest. This is Austrian award practice, ladies and gentlemen, and it is bad. It will in the long run harm the Republic and the public hands and will not serve. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we demand and can also carry out that the public hands, before they are forgiven, make a correct picture of the costs for themselves - not in a cost estimate thumb times pi, but in the form of a precalculation by the well-paid professionals who are able to do so - then they would be able to recognize a sub-price, but also a forbidden agreement much easier, and they could also assess the credit quality of the price. It cannot be in the interest of the public authorities that the construction industry is permanently underprivileged and thus seeking its own ruin. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we should all make our contribution to a step further, Mr President, in the field of new models, private public partnerships. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Because if we decompose the state from such tasks, then we also defuse him of the possibility of provoking abuse or having to tolerate it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6010	The Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner has now made his speech. - Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6025	Mr President. High house! I do not seem to have explained in my remarks the emotion required here, how we are trying in my field of action to overcome the ever-existing temptations. That's why I can only repeat: This policy will continue. A second point: In view of the many thousands of construction projects currently under way, one should stop bringing an entire industry into discredit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One should look at the individual cases, but not as if the entire construction industry in Austria is simply agreeing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But at the Rosenstingl you see it quite differently!]] Most of the cases that are happening in my house, we see - and I agree with Mr Haselsteiner - that today we have a competition, which we ourselves know is that there is a yield that would be better to raise the money than to invest as a business. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Casiner!]] Next point: It must be clear that we not only have different competences within the government, but that what is even more difficult in Austria, we also have competences in the procurement and procurement system, which are federally different. I'm responsible for Vienna, although I don't have anything to talk about here. The Federal Award Office has nothing to do with Vienna at all. And it is striking that we are still far more limited in the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of the public sector of construction at various levels. Therefore: Here too, more community in Austria would probably be a good path. One point for all those responsible: If the risk of getting caught is higher, abuse attempts will be reduced. Therefore, I can only pass on what was given to me as a letter carrier to others: A sufficient occupation of the authorities for the pursuit of abuses in this area is to be ensured, and the consequences of criminal and civil law are clear. I believe that if everyone in his area makes sure that the opportunity to sin is a relatively risky company, it will be easier to get hold of the outsiders. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6079	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. This concludes the current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6107	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The text of the Communication is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6330	I ask you to take the seats. In order to be able to negotiate the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters for the consent of the Deputies to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl, on these house searches and on its official persecution (1183 of the Supplements), it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required the two-thirds majority to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their approval to the withdrawal from the time-limit for this committee report. - That's unanimously accepted. The decision has been taken unanimously and is therefore far beyond the required two-thirds majority. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6360	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that Mr Magistrate is here. Stadler has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on application 119/A (E) on the abolition of non-vocational immunity for national councillors be limited to a period of 15 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on this request will take place after the end of the debate. Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters of 8 December 1990. In May 1998, 22c Vr 1208/97, for the consent of the deputies to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl, to these house searches and to his official persecution (1183 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6388	We now come to the hearing of the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters for consent to the arrest of the Member of the National Council Peter Rosenstingl, on these house searches and on his official persecution (1183 of the supplements). There was no oral reporting. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6412	Before I give the floor to the first speaker on speaking time, I declare that I have a request from Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol to decide in this debate a speaking time of 50 minutes per group. The consultation with the members of the President-in-Office's Conference provided for in the Rules of Procedure has taken place. I shall now vote on Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol's motion mentioned by me to decide in the debate a time of 50 minutes per group. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted and the speaking time decided in the form provided for. At the beginning of the debate, Mr. Federal Minister for Justice, Dr. Michalek, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question of the accusations against a member of this House and the great relevance that these proceedings have found in the public, I follow the request made several times and make the accusations as to how they present themselves to the criminal justice as follows: First: For the first time, the criminal court was with Peter Rosenstingl by an advertisement of the Volksbank Alpenvorland of the 20th century. On February 23, 1998, received at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. In February 1998, the Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Community, of the other part, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of This request for criminal investigation in connection with the suspicion of incorrect presentation of the asset situation of two companies by their tax consultancy company Omikron Wirtschaftstreuhand GmbH in connection with the issue of two changes and in connection with the pretence of a bank guarantee. ==References====External links== For further surveys, it is available to forward the advertisement to WIPO. ==References====External links==* Official website On 13 March 1998, WIPO had already received the Volksbank's advertising documents. ==References== ==References====External links== The use of WIPO was necessary to bring about the concreteisation of the accusations necessary for further persecution. ==References====External links== On 4 April 1998, the German Federal Ministry of Justice received applications for legal protection from the representative of the advertisement for the examination of the actions of the judicial authorities. A final outcome of the WIPO investigations, i.e. the economic police, is not yet available to the public prosecutor. Secondly, The advertisements from the First Austrian Saving Casse and an anonymous indicator of money laundering and fraud from the media were not passed on to the Court of Justice, but to the EDOK, according to the recent WIPO notice to the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, are now also the subject of further investigations by the Economic Police. Thirdly, ==References== On 1 May 1998, the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, Economic Police, at the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, returned an advertisement against Peter Rosenstingl and others. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== On the basis of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. For the first time, this announcement contained sufficiently concrete allegations of infidelity and fraud that the public prosecutor's office in Vienna was still on the same day, i.e. on the 8th. May 1998, at the National Criminal Court Vienna initiated the preliminary investigation, inter alia, against Peter Rosenstingl for §§ 146, 147 para. 3, 148, 153 para. 1 and 2nd StGB case and the issuing of a warrant against him in accordance with § 175 para. 1 Z 2 to 4 StPO, i.e. for the reasons of the danger of escape, eclipse and repetition, as well as the adoption of house search orders. - The number of businesses is therefore from the previous year, because the case has been included in a financial criminal case which has been pending since 1997 against a suspect and another person. The judge of the National Criminal Court ==References== In May 1998, the request under consideration of today's vote in accordance with Art. 57 para. 2 and 3 B-VG addressed to the National Council Bureau. The main subject of the arrest warrant to the debate is the advertisements of the Omikron of 7th century, presented by the Economic Police of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. ==References====External links== In May 1998, allegations were made. The application for detention relates to the following facts: (a) Peter Rosenstingl in his capacity as a lawyer in 1997 and 1998 of Omikron Wirtschaftstreuhand GmbH is said to have done a property damage of approximately 16.7 million schilling by having entered into obligations which are not related to the business of the company under his power to possess foreign assets. (b) He is said to have been knowingly misused in his capacity as a former chairman of the Freedom-Economics Association, by taking up loans from the Burgenland Investment and Credit Bank of almost 9 million Schilling and from the Sparkasse Baden of over 2.5 million Schilling and using them in a delicate manner. (c) He is said to have caused his indebtedness as a debtor of several creditors. After appropriate vote in the House, the Court of Interpol will issue a arrest warrant for international arrest. Fourth: After the information given by the head of the StA Vienna away from today, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna is now in addition to the ads I have already mentioned, a further advertisement of a damaged bank from the last days, but I will receive a report shortly. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry of Justice will be able to report on the progress of the procedure on a regular basis. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6526	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e6547	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the immediate debate on Mr Rosenstingl's extradition to take the action that makes the Causa Rosenstingl a causa of justice and leads to a judgment. For a long time - I have to add - it has taken us until we have been able to take this action, because, as we have just heard, those decisions within the Liberal Group, which take hours in other contexts, have now taken several days, yes weeks, to pass on a proper presentation of the case to the public prosecutor's office. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What took a year for the judicial system and what a three-quarters year with Mr Fischer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! After years of suspicion, after months of neglected investigation and after weeks of cover-up, there will finally be an international arrest warrant; an international arrest warrant that is necessary because a national who could have been issued could not be issued under the aid of the affected liberal group because there was no support from the judicial system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context: Not only Rosenstingl has been on the run, even in the area of the Freedom Party escape trends have been unmistakable. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Tense of coverage!]] Rosenstingl will get an absence curator. You, Mr Haider, have demonstrated your physical performance at Mont Blanc and, among other things, have discussed the question of EU enlargement with the Deputy President of Taiwan in order to address an international political need. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your curator Rudas has mistrusted 33 million!]] But in reality, Dr. Haider, you have also needed an absence curator in the last two weeks. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let the arbitrator talk! He can do better! He doesn't have 33 million to answer!]] You would have needed an absence curator who would have helped to clarify these questions, to bring out the Freedom Party from the financial point of view, to safeguard the interests of small, decent investors, and above all to ensure that the financial agents in your own group, who are still active there, also take appropriate information steps. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We demand information from you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones!]] After all, there is no less than the roaring, fraud of decent investors and cooperation with criminal organizations! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: As 33 million!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All that the chairman of the Liberal Group explains in this context is that a man has become "observable" in the field of crime. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are already very weak for the second time!]] - Just this screwed expression, ladies and gentlemen! What Haider explains here is: My financial reference in the parliamentary club has become criminal. And there is a need for action to be taken. [[Numerous calls.]] The second "Declaration" was: You don't see Gaunern looking like they're Gauners. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what someone says who has mistrusted 33 million!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And lastly, you said the FPÖ was not involved in this matter in any way. - 1994 and 1995 you, Mr Haider, were expressly pointed out, with specific reference to what has happened. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He did not mistrust 33 million!]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how this is justified today? - The one who made these statements was a traitor. That's someone who's only on his career. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Haider, I would really give you the advice to consider, at least today, what would have happened if you had opted for Haltmeyer at the time. - For many decent Austrians, for many investors, immediate damage would have been avoided. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go inside! What about your 33 million?]] What you have to wear in this context, Dr. Haider, is the Culpa in eligendo. You did not find Rosenstingl as "old load", you have explicitly chosen Rosenstingl. He was your financial representative, your colleague, and you have the responsibility to do so! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You have struck into the wind all the warnings you have reached in connection with the person Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You think your great hour has come!]] ==References== In December 1997, a bank official provided information so that you could simply see that there is a need for action. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I thought you were coming with new facts!]] At that time I wondered; I really wondered when you used very strong words at your New Year's Meeting at the turn of the year 1997/98. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We've been wondering about you for a long time!]] - Today I know that it was not knowledge, but certainty when you said that, if there were still money-loving, profit-loving party officials in the FPÖ, and those lax officials would not end their sluggish drive, they would go out of politics. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You will only be surpassed by the smoke-callat!]] Mr Haider, you knew exactly what you were talking about at the time. This accusation of the money-loving, profit-loving party officials has a name: Rosenstingl! - And you knew him! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But the public was not allowed to talk about it, because the country elections in Lower Austria were at the door. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You came to the world in the Grey House!]] In the balance between votes and investor interests, between the interests of the "small", decent Austrians, you have opted for some votes: against the interests of those who claim to represent you! That, ladies and gentlemen, is the way you practice that "orphan" thing! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] And how do you deal with the problems today? - Mr Haider raises the question of confidence. The question, however, is to whom he asks the question of confidence. He presents them to those officials who are directly dependent on him with whom he deals as well as with those 600 officials in Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Haider! The fidelity of economic and political dependence will not wash you in this matter. The community of fate of those who depend on you will not be able to take the accusation of complicity in the Causa Rosenstingl. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why don't you ask the question of trust?]] It is not a question of whether there is a private petition here - yes, certainly too - but rather of a group such as the one that wants to withdraw from co-responsibility, to take far too late in clarifying and ultimately to remain guilty of any response to what it says about its own club finances. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are talking about your club finances!]] In this context, Mr Haider, there are no crocodiles. No crocodiles! For what you have to answer in this regard is that all actions of the cavalry are in subjection. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is illegal what you do with your money! Let's get the Court of Auditors to check your club finances!]] If you're on 25 now. Let me start by trying to get the club finances of the Socialist Group into discussion, and I can only ask you to do the same as we do. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] We have commissioned an independent auditor to carry out the examination of club finances. [[Abg. Dr. Haider and Abg. May. Stadler:Courtyard! Court of Auditors!]] What I have here - and this is a confirmation - is the following: In accordance with order, my group's accounting system was examined. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Have the Court of Auditors checked! You can't come to us with such a report!]] In addition, the correctness of the balance sheet is confirmed and it is confirmed that the accounts of success issued for the sake of chamberalism in the form of a revenue-expenditure account are correct and that the dedicated funds for public work are used accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Subject You're the control of an independent auditor! You won't get such an attest - and you know that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're stuck in the swamp to the neck!]] For Mr Haider already knows that the Federal Republic of Germany is involved in a "nearly way". [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you sweat like this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Congratulations!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider may not have just returned Mr Rosenstingl's pocket money, but in 1998 he sent him an amount of 40 267 167, 20 S. Ladies and gentlemen! These are FPÖ's club finances, and Rosenstingl is responsible for them. Even today, the question of why he should not have been out of touch with these public funds, which are intended, while he has already done it elsewhere. There is absolute silence here! It's a cover-up cartel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Because he has nothing to say! 33 million I would never have given him!]] Mr Haider, you already know what you are talking about when you repeatedly declare that there is a rotten functional box. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Maybe in your party!]] These are real ones, because in no other area, in no other political party, political and economics come together continuously in such a mixed situation as with you. And this blending of politics and personal income has, above all, an address: St. Pölten, Unterwagramer Strasse Nr. 1. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: I have the suspicion that you have not written the speech yourself!]] There is a private foundation "Free living", board members: Councillor Schimanek and Deputy Dr. Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It's wrong again!]] At the address of the FPÖ LandesParteihrung Niederösterreich there is also the Free Housing and Housing Association, Supervisory Boards: Mr Schreiner and Councillor Schimanek. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah so!]] Furthermore, there is at the same address the "Holiday Home" participating society, in which in turn the "Free Future", the "Free Living", the "Holiday Home" builders and in addition another liberal society are involved, in which "at random" Rosenstingl is commanditist. And finally, there are the "Holiday Home" real estates in which - with the same address - the freedom colleague Mentil is involved. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah so!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's all in the paper!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a free Sippen strategy in this context! The party's private, public and economic money is permanently interfering here. There is a mobile perpetuum, whereby private transactions are continuously mixed with political transactions whose task is to create money for political and private purposes. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, once again say something about the exact separation between politics and business! The opposite is the case with you: the common handling of private and political problems. In your view, it is the principle that politics and the economy should be mixed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you send a small society of the whole huge empire in which Rosenstingl was involved into bankruptcy, this will directly damage the interests of investors in this area, but the real problem will not be solved. The bankruptcy is another injustice. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I think you can't finish us! You can't do that!]] In this context, we simply need to ask you: Put things on the table and finally explain what happened to that suitcase that a member of the Freedom-Economics Ring in the Omikron has given! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, explain what it is about the liabilities of the Freedom-Economics Association in this context! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] The party has always been a means of a wonderful increase in money for you. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Let the speech come to video afterwards so you can see how bad you are!]] Rosenstingl was only particularly virtuoso, but the role of functionaries such as shrines, ovens, mentils, Schimanek and and and is still open. If you only have a spark of grace, if it's just a bit about making a contribution to transparency and propriety in your own party, then you can clarify these things! There is a cartel of twilighters, there is a complicity of the backmen. And there is, as Haider himself said, a lost functional caste in the Freedom Party, which is profitable and looks only at its own pocket. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We claim that you can reveal this and dry the entire swamp. Finally take care of the injured, because they really have a claim to it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7147	Mr Haigermoser referred to an actual correction. Deputies! I give the floor to you, but at the same time draw attention to the fact that I am in favour of all actual corrections within the meaning of § 58 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be called upon after the end of the debate. You're still being called. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7171	Mr President. Mr Kostelka claimed that a staff member of the RFW, the Freedom-Economics Association, had transferred the incriminated two suitcases to the company Omikron. [[Abg. Koppler: Were there three suitcases?]] - This claim is false. I quote today's "Kurier", in which it is literally recorded that the messenger emphasizes that he is not a staff member of the Freedom-Economics Ring, nor has he known the content of the suitcases. I quote the other as a guide: Our immediate research into this lie in the newspapers has revealed the following: According to the consultation with Mr D., the only employee of the RFW Lower Austria, he indicates that he has not delivered the two suitcases to the office of Omikron. The company Omikron says: The suitcases should be picked up after a telephone call from a Mr. Deducer in the company Omikron by a designated secretary in a local by address of Erzherzog-Karl-Straße, Ecke Hausfeldstraße. Since this secretary refused, Mr. Delegater subsequently handed over the two suitcases in the office of the company Omikron. The employees of Omikron were of the opinion that Mr Delegater was from the RFW. But this is wrong. The right thing is that Mr. Delegater is an employee of the ÖGB-Company Printex. So he's indirectly ÖGB staff. Therefore, you should come at your own door and not accuse others!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7204	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7244	Mr President. High house! Minister! In the last two years, the Immunities Committee has distinguished itself by the fact that, as a result of the changed decision-making practice, in the case of certain offences, Members of the Criminal Code have been handed over to the Court of First Instance, few meetings have taken place. I would remind you that, unlike the previous 30 sessions, there were up to now a total of six meetings of the Immunities Committee. Yesterday, however, we discussed a case in committee, which puts all the other cases in the shadow and has reached a dimension that goes far beyond an AKH scandal or a building scandal. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are uninformed as always!]] This is the case of Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The AKH was about billions!]] In this case, I would like to go into Rosenstingl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] He is guaranteed to employ the public and politics very often, because he shows the state of a party, namely that of the Freedom Party, which has always presented itself as a clean-up and cleaner party in the public. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Cleans up!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You have to be in pain, and the stalk is probably very deep, because it is otherwise impossible to explain what kind of egg dance you put on the committee yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You are the chairman, you were there!]] First, Mr Stadler wanted to quote the Minister of Justice to give the impression that it was actually a general problem and not a problem for the liberals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Make a regulatory course!]] Mr Stadler then tried to remind us that there was no political link between the deed and the policy of Mr Rosenstingl, then in the discussion he turned around 180 degrees again, and in the vote he again took a different attitude. [[The speaker shows a graphic about the company empire and the functions of the Abg. Rosenstingl and introduce them to the speaker's desk.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Please note: This case, the criminal and fraud case of Mr Rosenstingl, is a case of your own - and you will certainly not be released from this responsibility! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're right!]] It is striking what strange view the former Members and FPÖ transport spokesmen had of his role: He's been submerged and he's gotten out of traffic like that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We prefer not to talk about traffic!]] Even if you want to do public child-moving now: It is your system, your party system and your swamp in your party. A number of Members will be guaranteed to be drawn into this swamp, and Mr Haider will not be able to dry this swamp. Regardless of the fact that the courts will now deal with this case, there are a number of questions to be dealt with. Point 1: What about the self-proclaimed Cleanmann Party FPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: bad!]] How should internal controls have looked out if it was possible to receive a loan of 16.5 million schilling, of which no one knows anything? Dr. Haider! How could this happen in your party organization? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because he doesn't control as much as you always say!]] The Freedom-Economics Ring with an annual budget of 2 million Schilling takes up a lazy loan of 16.5 million schilling by its owner - and no one in its own ranks knows anything about it. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong again!]] Mr. Rosenstingl was also your club cashier. That is why the question arises: What flows of money have there been within the Freedom Party to or from the FPÖ Club? You only need to look at the headlines of the last weeks and months. It is scandalous that only one party is involved, namely the FPÖ: Salzburg, Tyrol, now Lower Austria. Mr Haider, It is addressed: The accusation you always make to the others has caught you yourself: You are mutated with your party from today to the old party of Austria tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second question: What about the so-called catch-up party FPÖ? Why were they? You on the dive station for so long? Have you been informed about this since December 1997 by LandesPartei Obmann Gratzer? - If I go to the media after the reports, the suspicion is that you, Dr. Haider, already knew in 1994 what the state of the Lower Austrian FPÖ is like. I just need to quote the statements of Mr. Haltmeyer, a former Bureau member of your own party, in the "profile": "That was in spring 1994, before the state party meeting in Schrems. At the time, I drew attention to the strange financial event by Schreiner, who was a financial referent, and Rosenstingl in connection with the Holiday Home. And I also told him that I don’t think it’s okay if the Holiday Home builds the private house of the party president Gratzer.” - And so on. What about a party in which the principle is that anyone who knows and passes on will ultimately be removed from the party's functions? It's wondering who's going to be next in your ranks, Dr. Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There are some of you coming first!]] This is a very serious question when you look at the facts. By Wednesday, Landes Partyobmann Gratzer saw no reason for consequences. Only four days later, ad was refunded. In the FPÖ it took ten days for Mr. Rosenstingl to be excluded. Next question: What about the anti-privilegation party FPÖ? Does the party's office of unbundling look like this, with these company structures? [[The speaker points to the graphics that were spread before him.]] This is the Office Unbundling of the FPÖ under a federal partyobmann Haider? - So there are many interesting questions raised by this case. A question to the chairman of the Incompatibilities Committee Did you know that he earned 130 000 S net? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes! That's a good question!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are also a member! Why don't you know?]] Haven't you set up a 60,000 S limit in your party? Or was that company braid known to you? [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about Bartenstein?]] Have these functions been reported as well? - These are, of course, questions that also concern the public. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't know what Bartenstein deserves!]] Now it's coming. What does Mr Haider say about this? - Listen, Mr. Haigermoser! - He says Rosenstingl is a "old man" he took over. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bartenstein is old!]] Apart from the fact that it is not at all true, I ask Mr Ofner, Mr Bauer, Mr Partik-Pablé or Mr Haigermoser and many others from your ranks: How do you actually feel if you know that you too belong to the old stock according to the definition of Dr. Haider? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is an ancient party!]] Perhaps you'll be gone tomorrow, Mr Haigermoser. Perhaps you will be gone tomorrow when Mr Haider or Mr Stadler understands that one has to go again. This is the "democracy" in your party. [[Abg. May. Schreiner: So you're talking a smile!]] Or another question: What about the so-called party of the "little" people? [[Abg. Haigermoser: You didn't write that yourself!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes!]] What about the FPÖ among the "small" people, the savers, when they are cheated by a Member, a chief official of the FPÖ? [[Abg. Haigermoser: That was the khol!]] Or: What about the so-called Entrepreneurship Party? The name "Entrepreneurship Party" is interesting. Mr Rosenstingl had no professional right at all, as we are now told. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you deserve as mayor?]] He has always quoted himself as a tax specialist - I have always heard this from the committees - and then one comes on it: He wasn't a tax advisor at all! He didn't have a test at all. - So, what's the matter? Mr Rosenstingl gave the crediting banks a credit which he did not own, signed dubious changes, which were broken in series, and he gave millions of sums of money to accounts abroad. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That didn't happen to the Haigermoser either!]] Another question is about East business. How is the FPÖ involved? This question is addressed to Mr Mentil and Mr Schreiner. It is also significant that, about this hour, the two Members are not being defended by any fellow Members, but that Haider has issued the command that Mr Mentil and Mr Schreiner should defend themselves. That is also significant for this party. The question arises - you will certainly answer it, Mr Schreiner: What did you know? They even had a company with Rosenstingl, which was then dissolved sometime. - All of this is very questionable and has to be questioned accordingly. What about this hole-to-hole policy? Hole up, hole up, mill up. Again, a stone is taken away. At some point, a mat situation has been brought about. It seems to be the tip of the iceberg. I'm - like all of us - excited about what's going to come out. But one thing is clear: If that is the economic party of Haider, you can only send a push prayer to heaven that you are not in government power. I wonder, What would this state of Austria look like if there were a German chancellor named Haider? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Excellent!]] Mr. Haider! How do you want to rule Austria if you don't even have your own party under control? One last question: What about a party that demands less state in every debate and demands that the State withdraw, but even with this holding and in part with other companies, builds up a kind of party nationalization? [[The speaker points again to the graphics set up before him]] For example, the Lower Austrian residential empire. Why does a party actually run such a union of companies? Simple: This allows you to make people dependent! Thus, the Freedom Party makes persons dependent on its policy, on the politics of Dr. Jörg Haider. Old Party Freedom Party of Austria! [[Abg. Böhacker: Old Party ÖVP!]] In this context, the purchase of a property in St. Pölten, on which the house of the Lower Austrian FPÖ was built, is also in need of interesting and information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The property is burdened with the double of its actual value. Mr. Haigermoser! I know it hurts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't hurt anything! The only thing that hurts me is your speech!]] Mr Stadler is already quite pale, and Dr. Haider has been looking very old for a few days. It is very interesting about Mr Gratzer and Mr Rosenstingl, Mr Schreiner, Mr Mentil and other Members. It seems to be only a matter of time until Mr Stadler has to take over the party in Lower Austria. In Vorarlberg they no longer need it, there he can no longer return, so it is only a question of time until he has to take over Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You really don't care!]] [[Abg. Koppler: God protect Lower Austria!]] If we accept the extradition today, this is for good reason. First, we want to know the true dimension of the damage revealed. It is known to be 200 million schilling. We want to bring out further links, as they are partly presented here. [[The speaker holds the graphics that were spread out before him to the heights again.]] We also want to disclose the alliances within the Freedom Party. The public has a right to know what is really being played in this saubermann party. That is why we will accept the extradition request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7701	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e7727	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I am very grateful that you have said very clearly that the judicial system has taken months, almost half a year, to question and to find out about Mrs Rosenstingl's alleged painting. [[Abg. Edler: Mr Schreiner! Did you know that before?]] This happened with the help of a judicial apparatus, investigation agencies, the economic police and the prosecutor's office. The FPÖ should have done information work, even though you needed half a year to do so, and you didn't have anything to do with your information, Minister of Justice. Neither the Federal FPÖ nor the Landes-FPÖ Lower Austria has a police apparatus available. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Yesterday, it was also evident that the service provider knew that a wage-powder was on hand. - I myself have an economic fidelity firm with eight employees. [[Abg. Smoking callat: And you don't know that?]] Mrs. Colleague! With me, an employee would be quoted in my office immediately if I noticed that she suddenly has third party debt declarations and her wages are collected. Because what does that mean? - That means there are no orderly economic conditions. Mr President, Mr Fischer! Without orderly economic conditions to exercise a mandate, it is certainly impossible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What kind of democratic understanding is that?]] [[Abg. Smoke-callat: Not very loud said!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Steindl, I will come back later on to your specific question to me. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'm telling you a few things I'm openly admitting: I was a clubmate of Peter Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Silhavy: Painful!]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat:... and Kompagnon!]] In the Economic Office I have been in a joint office with eight other Members, and I have found that ladies and gentlemen: [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Freeman]] You don't see a burglar being a burglar, you don't see a cheater that he's a cheater. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Haider) But that hurt you!]] Society must act immediately if it is possible to gain visual knowledge of what a person is. There would be no more fraud and no more child abuse if the social environment were to discover this immediately. We didn't find out. The entire Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not discovered this. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: But you were involved!]] I'm not. For us, this was a situation that broke in over us. We said ourselves: That can't be true! Peter Rosenstingl was and is an introverted, professionally competent person, quiet and committed - and he has lived a double life. From my point of view, he has lived a perfect double life, otherwise I can't imagine that! [[Abg. Edler: Did the shrine know that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why should he know?]] I've been sitting at the desk with him, but if someone lives a double life, you can't know that. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take a look - as accusations against the FPÖ group always come - at this in concrete terms! There are, Mr Federal Minister for Justice, banks with best information channels and best ways to research networked. These banks have been cheered by millions of schilling. There is an economic fidelity firm, which did not know anything about it - the company Omikron - which always has to bear two points: total independence - a professional independence - and economic trustworthiness. This will be checked annually. Nor has the Chamber of Economic Trustees come upon it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With what professional qualification?]] There are friends who seem to have given him money to charge. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Party friends!]] There is the circle of freedom-wing economic operators, who are now a victim, and there is the FPÖ and the parliamentary club of freedom, who should all have known of it, although even institutions such as the First Bank, the Upper Bank and many other banks have never known of it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The advertisement has refunded! At least have responded!]] They have entrusted him with money in the best way, after a credit check, in which the KSV was awarded eight weeks ago: best credit quality, best credit possibilities, High House. But we should have known all this quite simply! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Because you are his friends!]] Mr Steindl! Now I'll come back to your statements. It's true, I've been connected to Peter Rosenstingl over two companies. I say this quite openly and have never kept it silent from the outset. The one company is called Office rent KEG, which is an office rental company with sales of exactly 273,000 S per year. The other is a company of which I own a share of the apartment and which Peter Rosenstingl owns a share of the apartment. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] We have checked at both companies whether Peter Rosenstingl has done financial painting, whether he has damaged creditors, whether he has taken money and whether he has deceived investors about this company. I've been able to deny this for a week. But I decided to set the strictest standards. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's why you're setting back your mandate now!]] Today, I have asked the President of the Chamber of Commerce and the President of the Lower Austrian Bar Association to carry out a review by an auditor or to have a lawyer inform the two companies in order to see whether Peter Rosenstingl, in connection with these two companies, in which I, as I openly admit, was even associated with him, someone - be it banks, private, the FPÖ or preparatory organizations, whatever persons - has been harmed. [[Abg. Müller: Which lawyer?]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: And what about a benefit?]] I have made this request to the two Presidents today, and they have assured me that this will probably be done in three to four weeks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Very late!]] High house! I have also decided to lay down my mandate, but to remain on the list of countries in the Lower Austria of the FPÖ. I have used for myself - I have been employed by an economic fidelity for 15 years, I am committed to this profession and I like to practice it - and I have always said: In my firm a strict test has to be carried out with caution and in whole hardness if something is blamed to me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP) This is the difference to you who are still sitting around!]] I have established the same standard in a company that is not an economic fidelity firm but a classic rental company. There we bought an apartment that we rent. Out, out! But I say that it should also be in a company in which Peter Rosenstingl was involved - he is still formally, and I need an absence curator so that Peter Rosenstingl can leave; I can't quote him for a signature, that's not possible - to apply the same strictness that I am obsessing in my firm. This also applies to a company in which I am in a business relationship with Peter Rosenstingl. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I wish you all not to know what has happened to me, namely, in confidence in a person I have known for many years and whose integrity I have always been convinced of being abandoned by this person in such a deep and loathsome way. May all of you be spared, which unfortunately has not been saved from me!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8079	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8106	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that my previous speaker's contribution to the debate offers a particularly good opportunity to get the matter to the point politically. In the debate so far, in particular, some aspects have already been presented by the speakers of the coalition parties, and I am trying to focus on the political point, because I believe that, as far as we know it today, on the one hand, from the report of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the other hand, from the debate that has been partially held with a dissatisfaction, is on the table and is quite appropriate for everyone to express their views. We stand by the fact that further surveys will have to be carried out, but already what we know so far is appropriate to be assessed politically. The fact that Mr Schreiner has announced his resignation from this speaker's desk - I suppose it was an announcement - does not change the fact that we have to assess the political question of the desire for extradition and the behaviour of the former - and still today - Member Peter Rosenstingl. First of all, I would like to return to the discussion in committee. This is particularly important to me, and I ask for concentration and attention. In the Committee's debate, it was not a question of whether or not Mr Rosenstingl is being extradited, but rather of whether we can make a decision for a long time or whether there is a request for a link between the accusations made to Mr Rosenstingl and his political activity. - It was a subject of debate. Mr Stadler has also decided to put his own motion and to take part personally in the request for an inseparable relationship between the actions which Mr Rosenstingl has accused and his political activity. This request, which was ultimately a five-party request, was adopted unanimously. I therefore ask you to focus on the following question: Why, for what reasons and on what basis, has Mr Stadler made this request? - He must know more than the members of his group have so far suggested. For all that the members of his group have said here was pushed into the personal defiance of the reputative Rosenstingl, in the private sector, in the area outside politics. And that, in itself, is not a political connection, because the personal defiance somewhere at the periphery in any KEG alone would not be enough. The question is therefore open: Where does Mr Stadler see the political context? Where do his colleagues in the group, who have been sitting in committee and who have voted in favour, see the political context? - Do you see the connection between the fact that Mr Rosenstingl has exploited the credit quality of the RFW for what he is being accused of today? Or what else? Do you see the connection in mulit functionality? Or do they see him doing so in the political interest and not in the economic interest of someone working with other colleagues in the National Council? I think it is precisely these questions that make up the political content. But you can't find out now, except you know more than we know. Finally, the criminal procedure will also have to provide information. Because only when the facts are on the table will you know more about it. Remarkable, however, is the time period that we can observe. There, Mr Schreiner, I can only partially follow you on one point. You have said here that justice took half a year. The court is not sitting door to door with colleague Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Tegischer: desk at desk, he said!]] I'm talking about RFW now, not the companies. If Rosenstingl in the RFW was actually able to borrow loans alone, without the participation of other officials, then this is certainly also a problem of the bank that has granted it. However, I would like to ask: In what circumstances did the bank feel that it was enough to do so alone? - There can be a political connection. It is possible that this political context, which has moved Mr Stadler to put forward his own motion. I think that if a political group, through its deputy clubman at a committee meeting, makes the request that there be a political link between the accusations against Rosenstingl and his political mandate and his political functions, it is unreasonable to act out of this debate as if there were no political context. That's unfair! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In my view, therefore, Mr Schreiner's statement of mandate does not have the motive he has presented to us here, but this is the attempt to cut off the political link by putting the mandate back in time. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You'd like that!]] I don't understand otherwise! Otherwise, it wouldn't make sense. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You'd like that!]] I didn't understand you right now. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are you talking about everyone?]] Mr Stadler! If you yourself - I say it again - have tabled the request, then from my point of view, the question that only you can answer is the question: Why did you make this request? - In the end, the political assessment has been made. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How would you like it?]] [[Further lively calls at the FPÖ.]] The second aspect... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell me how you would like it!]] I'm not asking to interrupt, I can't talk properly otherwise. I'm sorry if I couldn't finish my speech properly. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell me how you would like it!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The second aspect is: The public will judge, Mr Stadler, what it is to be said is that you thought yesterday that there is a political link and today act as if you had never known anything about it. That's unbelievable! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8278	The next speaker is Mr Mentil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8294	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the APA issue by Mr Kostelka - he is not here now - the tenth question is: What role does MEP Mentil play in connection with the business of Rosenstingls? - I can answer that to you immediately, dry and verifiable: None! He doesn't play a role like always! Mr Heindl! With regard to your thoughts on what Mentil is doing in this society, I say to you: Mentil does nothing in this society at all. Mentil bought correct and decent office rooms there. Contracts over it are on, the square meter price is known, all that lies comprehensiblely on the table. You'll be surprised how fast this campaign is going toward my person in nothing, in the air. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have been a financial reference to the Freedom of the Lower Austria since 1994 and will prove to you as such that there has been no flow of money between the Freedom of Lower Austria and the Refugee Rostingl. I repeat: no flow of money as always! I will ensure that independent experts and auditors, to whom we will provide all the documents, will prove and document that nothing is right about your additions, but also nothing at all. Rosenstingl has had nothing to do with these things! Humanly, it is tragic and difficult to realize what Rosenstingl did to us. But with the events of the Freedoms of Lower Austria, with the finances of the Freedoms of Lower Austria in my responsibilities as a national financial officer, Rosenstingl had nothing to do with it. I say it again: Independent experts will examine this and prove it to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll keep going. I think and I feel I am guilty of my family, my children, my family, my electorate, the citizens - this is my understanding of mandate -: I will be relinquishing my mandate for the period of examination. I bet with you, you'll see me again faster than you believe, but unpolluted and pure, as a politician who knows what it means to take responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I wish Mr Kostelka that he might respond in a similar way and light up or light up the things that are happening in his area. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in a very short time there will be clarity in this House, clarity that you will not be able to establish, as always, any connection of financial flows between the FPÖ Lower Austria and Peter Rosenstingl. It will be my most beautiful day when I will be standing in front of you again and you - documented by independent experts, by experts from outside the FPÖ who will examine these things - will have to take note that you have been tumultuous and otherwise nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8358	There are two statements on business treatment. The first comes from Mrs. Dr. Schmidt and the second from Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8373	I spoke on the basis of the list of speakers on the Rules of Procedure. Mr President. They themselves were present in the presidency and therefore know that the form of this meeting was chosen, among other things, because Klubobmann Stadler gave the impression that his group would agree to the extradition request and, for this reason, of course, the speakers of all political groups as pro-redners... [[Abg. Wabl: vote in committee!]] Yes, they also voted in committee. But he has already given the impression in the presidency that all Members agree to this extradition request and that all the words would therefore be recorded as pro-word messages, which resulted in only a change in the order of the political groups. Since Mr Mentil has now spoken as a counter-voicer, I assume - he can also decide differently - that he will vote against extradition. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talking and voting are two different things!]] But I would ask you, Mr President, to ensure that future statements of speech are handled in the same way as the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with voting behaviour. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's right!]] Otherwise, I would see this as another abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as it would not be the first time in the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8437	I now have two words on business, namely Mr Dr Petrovic and Mr Dr. Haider. I will then give an opinion on this. Please, Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8456	Mr President. I am very surprised at the procedure that is now being practiced. It is not only that the Freedom Party has made statements that it will agree to this request, but also that of the Freedom Party, namely Mr Stadler. At the beginning of the debate it was also made clear that the speakers of all political groups spoke out as speakers or speakers. I can therefore only regard it as a circumvention of the Rules of Procedure as an abuse if the change of views mentioned in the Rules of Procedure is not observed here. I urgently seek to preserve this change also from the Bureau. Unfortunately, I urge that a presidential be held immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8480	Mr. Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8495	Mr President. As you know, the voting behaviour of a group in the vote is clear and has nothing to do with the course of the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But it can be found in the committee!]] I should like to remind you, Mr President, that you yourself had the presidency when we had a similar discussion in connection with the refer ence law, where we liberals mobbled about the fact that the Greens and the Liberals have suddenly registered themselves as counter-voicers, although they have signaled approval. They decided at the time that this was permissible. I therefore ask - even though Mrs Oberlehrer Schmidt is now of a different opinion and I believe that this is illegal to business regulations - to treat the same facts equally.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8533	Madam President, Mr Petrovic, once again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8548	First of all, I am against the fact that Members of this House, including Mrs Dr Schmidt, are either ordered or disdained within the framework of a word on business treatment. This is not common and does not belong to the good sound of this house. [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you also want the title "Oberlehrerin"? You can have it!]] Secondly, there is a standing use here, which has always been observed, namely that if a political group or if individual Members do not agree to at least part of a presentation, there is probably a possibility of pro- or contra-wording. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stadler certainly agrees!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will agree, so I will speak per!]] In this case, however, it is not about a long template which falls into several parts, but only about the question of whether Members of the Rosenstingl should be extradited, which can be answered with a clear yes or no. I therefore regard it as a circumvention and also as a deception of this House to act here as if the decision was still open to give itself a better rank, a better place in the debate. I urge once again, before the situation here is escalating, to make a presidential take place.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8613	Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8628	Mr President. It is not just a question of whether we can speak counter to and at the end of the debate, but a second question, namely whether we are talking about a debate as a speaker at the beginning of the debate and whether it seems appropriate to be able to speak earlier, to go to counter speakers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what everyone decides, Mr. Arbitrator!]] In addition to the business regulatory question, however, the question arises whether agreements are held. It has definitely been concluded that such a thing is not happening in the house today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8673	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8688	Mr President. The reference to the debate on the subject is completely inappropriate, because at the time the two political groups who spoke as a counter-voicer did not agree to some of the requests. So you rejected parts. Mr President. I would particularly like to know how we are getting a printed list of speakers, which has a certain order of speakers, and that some magic forces then suddenly change the order of the speakers' messages. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Magic Forces!]] I'd like to find out: Who made this happen, and who decided here?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8720	Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8735	Mr President. I would like to follow up on Mr Khol's comments. It should be noted, in fact, that, regardless of what the Committee has decided or what opinion has been expressed in the Committee, there has been a vote here, as usual, in which all five political groups have clearly voted, which has also been jointly defined. The first speaker list, which was printed, has also shown this behavior and this order. It is therefore not possible to explain to anyone how a political group has reported not only a speaker but all the behaviour of the political groups on a counter. That doesn't correspond to the use! I suggest that it should also be discussed in the Presidential Assembly. If the agreements between the political groups and also between the parties no longer exist, then the question arises as to what we are still discussing together.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8762	I am now interrupting the meeting and calling for a short presidential term.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8787	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Please excuse me, it took a little longer, but it is a fundamental question of how to apply § 60 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate on this has not yet been concluded in the Presidency. However, I would like to tell you, without setting a prejudice now, what the order of the speakers is for this debate to look like. Next, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is reported to speak, then Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Fekter, Mag. Barmüller, Wabl, Dr. Cap, Dr. Haider, Mag. Peter, Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Gusenbauer and Oillinger. - That's the list of speakers she's present at the moment. If further words are received, they will, of course, be accepted. I speak as a next speaker in this debate, Mrs Dr Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8814	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I regret the need for this interruption. The meaning of the exercise was obvious. The aim was to prevent objective reporting on the part of the Freedom Party, particularly in the ORF. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who made the request?]] This has been expressed very clearly in interlocutory calls, including by Mr Haider. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's for the weigher!]] I think it will be in this House, including public-law broadcasting, its public-law mission and... - No, honourable Member Haider, you do not understand that. [[Call the liberals: Zensur want to! Zensur!]] It's about keeping the law. But this dimension is no longer understandable to you! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that procedures relating to the rules of procedure for the visitors to the gallery and for the Austrian public are generally not very exciting and often not easily understandable. This is also the reason why such transactions take place time and again: It is tried to relativize a problem that the Freedom Party has and distracts from it by in any form of agitating unrest. This goes hand in hand with efforts to relativize parliamentarianism, parliamentary control and also the nature of the free mandate and to create confusion in this regard in the public. - I am convinced that, although this strategy has been partially implemented, it will not really be successful in this case. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! First of all, I will deal with your statement. I am thinking - and I am referring in particular to the government parties, to the club members Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Khol - that it is indeed the case that the statement by the Minister of Justice raised many questions. The question arises as to how the executives, as well as the courts, are prepared for corruption, that dubious machinations go into the high house. - I mean, there were mistakes in the past. We have got used to the fact that there is a certain degree of party accounting in Austria that there is a certain degree of non-reconnaissance. And if a scandal occurs that simply spreads the dimensions of the so far being, then the authorities are obviously not prepared for it. Federal Minister! There is reason to think that in a causa of such a dimension, an errant appears - and that for a month! That can happen before. But I think the authorities must also develop the appropriate sensitivity. In such matter, no mistake should occur at human discretion. I would also like to ask the question, however this is not your area of business, why the EDOK has been establishing since the fall of 1997. We all know that the EDOK has to do with organised crime. Although people of this House are involved in such an accusation, I understand that we are taking very careful action - it is indeed incredible that a Member of this House is directly and directly suspected of such serious criminal acts - this must continue to be done in half a year. Were these already concrete investigations against a person? Were the general surveys against unknown? For what reason did one not see at that time a need to make a referral to Parliament? - The offenses it's about are serious. Defectionery, exchange fraud, millions of fraud. Mr Federal Minister - which is also addressed to the club members of the government parties - I do not think it should be made so easy for the Freedom Party by not talking about these things, about these delays and failures, which were certainly also there. Parliament will have to decide to carry out a comprehensive investigation which will highlight all sides. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has said that at least since 1997 there has been a tax evasion procedure in the area, against an accused person. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: Against a fellow accuser!]] Because of the EDOK's referral, there must have been an indication that organised crime is in play here. I think we should really examine this here in this Parliament so that, hopefully, such a case will never happen again in the future or, if it takes place, that we are all better equipped for it. Now I come to the dimensions of these incidents. On the part of the Liberal Party, these shortcomings, those delays which may have occurred in the investigational authorities and which I believe are fully clarified in a parliamentary inquiry, are now one-sided. But now I'm asking you back: How do authorities deal with the fact that a member of the same party, who has repeatedly acted so much against the organized crime, who has repeatedly demanded that more be done, is done harder and faster, is suspected of being in the middle of organized crime, in money laundering, in the counterfeiting of documents? How do you judge it if, at the first moment, the authorities acting are even incomprehensibly, as we were all unscathed when we heard of the dimensions of these incidents? Now I also confess to the Freedom Party that it could be so that an isolated criminal or a person suspected of having committed a criminal act occurs and that is not initially seen by the Party. But I'm asking you: What happened internally to you when you knew with certainty that this suspicion was in the room? And above all, and this question is even more important to me: What, then, does the feeding ground look like in a party on which such possibly criminal flowers can thrive? So far, I have not heard anything from you about the fact that the "profile" - which you have completely undisputed - states that there was massive criticism already in 1994 that the FPÖ, as a party that has always condemned the party's book economy and that the propor of economics, founded a housing company itself at once. To this end, the mandates have been encouraged, perhaps even gently persuaded to rise with six-digit amounts of money. - Was it not that party that always sued the red-black proporz that suddenly found nothing about the creation of blue housing empires? Ladies and gentlemen! It is often bad what happens in the field of government parties, and it is not justified by anything. But I'm asking you: Faith You really believe that it is still possible today for the government parties to build the private residence of the party president with a company that has apparently managed to provide public funds. Now comes the call, that's all wrong. So far, a number of FPÖ speakers have been here at the speaker's desk - in a way that is remarkable in business regulations - who have said nothing, nothing at all. That's very strange. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Even if you say that you were overwhelmed and overwhelmed by the dimension of this suspicion and this accusation, is it really, Mr. Dr. Haider, the appropriate response to put yourself on a plane and to go to Fernando? Wouldn't be if you said: We have been surprised, we have not been able to know! if you have such internal structures in the party, if you have not provided for the appropriate procedure in your party, at least to report suspicion? I don't think you've been surprised from the bright sky either. They do not even find it worth the effort to face the accusations. There would have been time for many days to express themselves in this context. But apparently you have prepared your line of defense, you have prepared the line with which you want to face this challenge. I would like to ask you: If you are really serious about ensuring that something like this can never happen again, why have you never accompanied the Greens' request for a "glass" party fund that all donations should be disclosed from a relatively small amount, for example from 5 000 s? Why did you not go along with our request that all the income of a representative or of a mandate and all the private property should be disclosed? In my opinion, such a scandal could not have happened. There must then be the surprise ex post less. But I face one very massively: If you, Mr Stadler - and these were your words, these are not my words - have spoken of a "ordinary" Gauner, I must tell you that a "ordinary" Gauner was, or is that, if a court is so, certainly not. That was or will be, if a court has condemned it, a Gauner, who is equipped with a mandate equipped with the Nimbus of the Party, who has always made himself a scandalous running clarifier. This is not a "ordinary" Gauner, but it is then someone who also uses the restraint of his party to raise a particularly credible appearance in the public. Deputies Peter Rosenstingl has credit. That is why Mr Stadler, too, has, of course, had to vote in favour of the political context. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Wabl voted against!]] Mr Ofner, you know that is the smooth untruth. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I was with you, not you!]] Mr President, you are not even able to stick to the truth now. It is infinitely sad that you are not even able to stick to the truth in such a debate. [[Congratulations on the Greens, on the SPÖ Members and on the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't lie!]] So that means not a very common gullible, but a FPÖ-gauner. Let's stick to this division, because it's the truth. And another one: If Mr Schreiner, who has not given up his mandate, but has just put his rest, has put his rest for the time being - said he would quote an employee - albeit in a female form - then I would ask you what you think of a mandate and, above all, where political control begins. Was it not you who, in connection with the investigation committees, with Praschak, have always said with the Kurds that political responsibility is something other than criminal responsibility? I ask you: Where is the political responsibility of the head of the party? It is not a question of anyone leaving the mandate alone now, but of political responsibilities. It is not about you now putting out, as it were, some valley of the FPÖ, and it is also the wrong body, Dr. Haider, if you ask your Federal Party Board the question of trust. It is a matter of political responsibility to the Austrian people and to the representatives of the people and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] So the MP Schreiner said he would quote an employee to himself. Members of this House, but you still do not seem to have realized that, and that does not seem to be the case in the FPÖ, have a free mandate. [[Call to the liberals:Fischer mauert!]] I'm asking you to log the "Fisher Wall" call. I reject that in all forms. The President has acted correctly on this question. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If you don't know anything about data protection when in your party the methods of the data clause are always schooling, then this is once again a proof of how you don't understand political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you still defending this?]] Members of this House are nowhere to mention. They are elected by the population, and they exercise their mandate until they lose this mandate. I can tell you one thing: Your understanding of political responsibility is much more serious compared to the shortcomings of the judicial system and the investigation authorities. This political responsibility, Dr. Haider and the entire party leader, no one can take it from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e8985	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9000	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's discussion and the approach of the Freedom Party to this issue not only today, but also in the last few days can only be described as embarrassing and scandalous, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in particular, what was done by Mr Stadler earlier today and what his colleague, Mr Haider, has now explained in connection with Mr Fischer, were to be qualified, then it should actually be classified into the category of characterlessness. I don't want to say anymore, I think your speeches speak for themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I cannot add to Mr Petrovic's statement that you obviously did not understand how and on what basis the procedures are working here in the House. If you rise to the point that you really think that the President of this House should quote individual Members and ask them to account for them, why certain incidents have taken place, why there are executions here, then go completely beyond our constitutional basis, ladies and gentlemen. I have never heard such a scandalous argument in this context, and I also do not know how it would be if you actually had anything to talk about in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens]] I think it's just today that you have to say: To prevent this, ladies and gentlemen, is the obligation of decent Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] It was shocking to me that there is an economic fidelity, and as a sign of how decent and diligent he is, he actually says: I have a law firm, and with me, of course, it is common for all those who have pay contributions to come to me and get a suit. Today, the colleague Stadler has been crying in between: § 301 of the Rules of Procedure!, in an almost embarrassing and offering way. Ladies and gentlemen! You must already note that there is a disciplinary dependency relationship between employers and workers. If you now accuse the President that he has not broken the Data Protection Act, then you simply submit it, and this is obviously your wish that the President of this House and the free Members should have a judicial sub-ordinary relationship. Then they would not be free anymore, and we will know that to prevent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Dr. Haider! There has not yet been such a scandal in this Republic where a Member of this House is misrepresenting 200 million schillings! Ladies and gentlemen, such a scandal has not yet existed. But they seem to want to make this scandal a kind of spectacle. They'll probably talk out and say, We want the glass state! I can tell you that the Members who are now running against these surveys have voluntarily resigned. - Mr. Haider! But this is certainly not the solution to this matter, I can tell you now! This show will be a feature, and I do not think that one of the so-called decent Austrians, who always appeals to you, is still taking this show away from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But on this occasion I might also want to help your memory a little on the jumps. There was a slightly smaller scandal in 1989: The then Secretary-General of your party, Scheibner, has been accused of simultaneously obtaining unemployment and emergency aid during the election campaign as a member of the Party's staff. At the time, the Social Minister here in this House asked whether he would be released from data protection, from the obligation of confidentiality, and at that time he was not disbanded. At that time, you were very much based on it and hoped that data protection and confidentiality would be used. Today, you demand the opposite. They call for the opposite and threaten to make the claim that in reality the President of this House would be guilty of your scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a scandal! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's an extract from me. Your statute, from your program before where it says: The human dignity is untouchable. Prosperity, honor and morality should determine the use of freedom. - Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I do not think you can make this happen to anyone in this country. Everyone knows that the debt is not only with those who fall under your "farmers' sacrifices", but that it actually goes back to the roots of your party and vice versa to the top; I will tell you later why. Affirmation, honor and morality are supposed to determine the use of freedom - that's your foreign exchange. That in the light of what is happening at present is probably really ridiculous. If proponent, honor and morality determine the use of freedom, then you should not be called the "Freedom Party of Austria", but should be called the "Unliberal Party of Austria". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The gag was rather weak!]] In this connection, I would like to read to you very briefly what I believe is true of Christoph Kotanko's "Kurier" today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr. Haigermoser! They were also an excellent economic factor in this matter, which even claimed on radio broadcasting, not the FPÖ, but not members of the FPÖ, because many hundreds of small investors had been damaged. - Ladies and gentlemen! This must be imagined: 200 million! Where did these 200 million flow? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where did they go?]] Where did they go? You'll probably know better than I do, Mr. Haigermoser. Apart from the fact that we have to take note of all of this in its immense proportions, we have to listen to someone saying that not the FPÖ, but the banks and investors are guilty. You have really been awarded your profound knowledge, Mr. Haigermoser: The scandal has actually been clarified, because the banks are guilty, and they are supposed to be with the small investors. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you know the "Ritter with the Iron Hand"?]] Mr. Haigermoser! They disqualify themselves. This House should have really saved itself such a poor discussion, such a discussion is not worthy of this House. I think you know that as well as I do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we can also be hopeful, because I suppose that Mr Haider will know just as well, and that will probably be the background of his speech, which he will then swing. He will know what Christoph Kotanko writes: This party will never be the same as it was. Their credibility is permanently damaged, even if a few functionals are disposed of. - In the knowledge of what you want to pull here for a show. - The obsessor can no longer play out his strength, the indictment of abuses in the competition, because the SPÖ itself is in the dirt. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] And then we're going to go on: For a politician, nothing is more dangerous than ridiculousness. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This Freud's promise was a dream!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For a FPÖ politician, nothing is more dangerous than ridiculousness, and that is what we have to fear here in this House, because with your incredible course you are not only harming your own party, but ultimately also this House. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I take back the "Ritter with the Iron Hand"! Not even that!]] It is more than impoverished if you can base your entire argumentation on a lapsus from me and can no longer help yourself otherwise. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question is: Why can such a thing happen in a party? Why can such a thing happen in a party even if the honourable Member has already been informed twice, once in 1994 and once a half year ago, that criminal machinations have taken place here? Why can that happen? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let the cap talk! You can't talk, you can't read!]] This can only happen if it is a party in which there is the principle of leadership in which one fears to be critical and to show something. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only quote what you, Mr. Haider, once presented in the framework of your programme statements, namely - he does not like to hear that, he has already gone, but I say it anyway; it is to be read in the "Kurier" of 7. On October 8, 1984, one has to let it be broken on the tongue again and again, because this is really the thought world of this party, ladies and gentlemen -: Today's form of living together is denatured. That's not an ideal... - Screaming [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Don't get rid of the time to the cap!]] You just in between, you hear me thank God anyway. - That's not an ideal in the national sense. Partnership consists of the leading and the serving part. That's it. I'll have a uniform look throughout the party. This is the leadership I still have to do. - As far as Dr. Haider is concerned. This has been seen in the despicable processes in Salzburg. That's also the reason why all these machinations only now, although you probably knew much more in your party than you love, come to the light of day. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only tell you one thing: Lies have short legs, and you will notice that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9188	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The applause was not honest!]] [[Further calls.]] I call Mrs Fekter. I ask for attention or at least for peace!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9222	Mr President. High house! What has so far been offered here by the liberals to defend the case has not lightened the case, and what Mr Stadler meant in the early days, Rosenstingl would not be a case of the FPÖ, I really do not think was meant as a line of defence. The smile that then used in the house showed it. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It may be unknown to them, but all those who have half a good childhood do know the saying: Tell me who you're dealing with, and I'll tell you who you are. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The liberals cannot pretend to have nothing to do with Mr Rosenstingl. Criminal justice will examine the proceedings. Here we discuss political responsibility. Faith You really are able to steal from this political responsibility that you can act as if Rosenstingl were a case for yourself without the liberals? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You wrote the speech yesterday!]] Who brought Mr. Rosenstingl into the party? It has already been mentioned today: It was Mr. Harald Ofner. He came to this house in 1990, and there was Haider already partyobmann. And do you think, Mr Ofner, that anyone would have entrusted Mr Rosenstingl with 200 million if he had not been a member of the National Council? What did he have before he was a national councillor? What credit would he have had without the protective cover of the "F" and without the protective cover of his chamber function? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I've already seen other people there! They have stolen more and were no mandates!]] Mr Haigermoser as chairman of the RFW has raised him to this function, and then you want to steal from the political responsibility? [[Abg. Böhacker: No, that is wrong!]] He was an accountant of the club. Auditors should be auditors. Does control look like a liberal pattern? Is that what you're blaming people, what you want, control à la Rosenstingl? It is true that Mr. Bundes Partyobmann Haider is, of course, responsible for the Federal Party "F" and, of course, also for the finances that flow between the Federal Party and the state parties. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There's nothing going on!]] - Mr Rosenstingl had such high political offices that all had to do with any financial history: either as a cashier or as an accountant. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why didn't you check on the state panel so closely?]] The Liberal Party must, therefore, be very well aware of the question: How was election funding in Lower Austria? What about political responsibility due to the high functions of Mr Rosenstingl? How was the Lower Austrian election campaign financed? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why didn't you ask these questions when it came to the government?]] - I hope not with the missing 200 million schilling! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today, only the victims have been mentioned, and the Freedom Party has immediately rejected everything. They didn't belong to the injured, they didn't get into their pots. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just like you did with the government! What did you put together at the state scoop?]] But who were the beneficiaries of these frauds? How much did the "F" of Lower Austria have to deliver to the Federal Party? Are there perhaps some missing millions here? Or, for example, what about the Ring of Freedom-Economics, whose Landesobmann was Rosenstingl? How much money did the Freedom-Economics Ring put into the election campaign in Lower Austria? How much has been delivered to the Federal Party? [[Abg. Aumayr: Question Time was already!]] Today in this House is pretended to have been enriched only by Rosenstingl. There has been no mention of other beneficiaries of these frauds. Due to its high functions in the Freedom Party, the question must be allowed: Where have the old millions flowed? It is the actions of a single one - it has said here - of whom no one has known anything. Unfortunately, no one believes that. Jörg Haider has constantly denounced the non-profit housing companies, claiming that freedom of movement would not be included in housing companies. He quoted party decisions that it would not be allowed to do so. All words! Schreiner and Rosenstingl prove it. The party officials do not adhere to their own keywords, to their own party decisions. In this context, it is difficult: The party headquarters in Lower Austria was financed by housing funds. Private houses of the officials were built or renovated by companies of Mr. Rosenstingl and his colleagues. I hope that not also Mr Haider's attic will be in the second place. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't live in the second place. District! As usual, you are always misinformed! He doesn't live in the second place. District! Wrong information!]] It would be wise if there were a clear, transparent explanation of how these financial activities in concrete terms are linked to party financing and to the benefits of the officials in the Freedom Party. I cannot understand how an officer can order a financial controller in the Freedom Club, which is itself in serious difficulties. That it was not known that its term of office was suspended, I now leave it aside. But another phrase, another word of the liberals - ladies and gentlemen, we all know it - was: 60,000 s are enough! That's what Haider says, and everything else is supposed to be delivered to the party fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Because of this party fund alone, you should have known what Mr Rosenstingl's finances are all about! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What does that look like? Skill In fact, do you really believe that one has a business relationship, a financial empire, which he may lead free of charge from which he has no income?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9412	I'm asking you to lower the sound level!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9427	If Rosenstingl had not delivered anything into the party fund, that would have been the first sign of curing, which is with the income from his company braiding. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell me, how was it in the acquisition of the ship of state? Mrs. Minister, how does it look with the acquisition of the Stateware?]] How does that look? - That means Jörg Haider would have had to stop here if he didn't get anything from Rosenstingl. But perhaps Rosenstingl has delivered! Perhaps some of these 200 million funds have also ended up in the party fund? - Fraud funds to be repaid, of course. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: 1 million for stateware? Mrs. Minister! 1 million you put in the sand!]] Jörg Haider should've gotten light-hearing for a long time! But as I said, Control and cleanliness according to the model of the "F" are only words and keywords. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How was the stateware?]] There are a large number of broadcasts, press conferences and speeches by Mr. Haider for the "successful, skilled and diligent". Let me conclude, because it is so embarrassing to quote what Haider gives of himself, a quote from Mr. Haider's speech of 13. ==References== He makes allegations in connection with certain test signs. A quote from Haiders: There on the back of the decent people apparently do a handful of very dubious personalities huge shops. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How was the stateware?]] I can only say: Incenses You're finally out of this augia stable, Minister of State! [[Abg. May. Stadler: 1 million you have put in the sand for government scissors!]] That's what Haider said. To what extent these statements are embarrassing in view of what is happening in the "F" party, I would just like to say: Room and miss You yourself out of the augia stable you have in your group!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9524	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e9542	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl is on the run, and FPÖ is already trying all day to take the flight forward. But unfortunately it is very bad to have to go with such claws on the legs in this race, as this group must do in this debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The barmüller we are off anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God!]] Mr Stadler, who always likes to be the first to take the lead in these matters, has today meant that Mr Rosenstingl, the volatile Member of Parliament, is only an ordinary Gauner - his division. However, if one considers that the damage done by Mr Rosenstingl has been at least 200 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen, one should actually ask what the monetary comparison with other scandals is like. Ladies and gentlemen! The AKH scandal has been undisputed a mega scandal in Austria, and this was just about a quarter of the sum that has gone over the table, which today is about the liberal Democrat Rosenstingl. And that's where Mr Stadler says he's a common gullible. If a liberal makes a damage that is just a quarter - I correct it: the fourfold - the fourfold of the AKH scandal, then it is for honourable Members Stadler a "very common gullible." [[Calls at the Liberal Forum: The Fourfold!]] It would be right to say that he is, perhaps because he rather has a more intimate knowledge of the liberals, a very ordinary freeman. But this is a division that Mr Stadler chooses, and he must make up with his people, especially those who sit in Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler also knows: If there is something he is particularly ruling, then it is the ability to instrumentalize people, and that has happened again today. It is not a question of whether Mr Stadler or Mr Haider might have found a word to say that it was wrong to have done something better that he was sorry for those who suffered a damage from it. - No, quite the opposite. It's the others that are to blame. We must all look at what is wrong in their own areas, and we must not criticize the liberals - even though it turns out that they are doing much better if they have the opportunity to do so than the others. For the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, is the party of the diligent and the party of the workers. [[Abg. Koppler: Don't say it so often, otherwise they still believe it!]] - No, no, deputies! That is why, Mr Haider said, the case of Rosenstingl must necessarily be an individual case. But if the case of Rosenstingl is an individual case, I wonder why Mr Schreiner must have consequences. If the case of Rosenstingl is an individual case, I ask why Mr Mentil must have consequences. If these are honourable Members, as Mr Haider said on the "Report" at lunchtime, I wonder why Mr Stadler and Mr Haider should not have any consequences. They will decide for themselves today which group they belong to. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] There is a danger of being louder - you say: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Trees don't see the forest!]] Trees don't see the forest. This is too ecological for me, which is too friendly, because there are apparently beams in the eyes or boards in front of the heads of others. At any rate, in the "Kurier" of today, I read that Mr Haider - shown by his hand in the heart - is totally horrified: It hurts me that such a person could exist with us without having come to him in good time. - That's what honourable Member Haider says. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what he said about Barmüller! That's what he said about Barmüller.]] He confidently assures his electorate, who cannot have wanted to do so, how much he is affected by it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said the same thing about Barmüller too!]] Mr Stadler! Then I turn around and ask: Where is Mr Meischberger? - I saw him in the morning. However, I have only seen Mr Meischberger in the early days, because it is likely that Mr Haider, just because he is sitting in the first row, cannot claim that he has been missed so far, that someone who has been sentenced in the first instance, Mr Stadler,... [[Abg. May. Stadler: It hurts him that someone like Barmüller could ever be in the FPÖ!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Heath is watching! Stay calm!]] I don't stick to such things! I do not stay calm when the brave and the diligent in Austria are harmed by the liberals! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] Mr Meischberger was first sentenced for tax evasion, 700 000 S mistrusted from an area of the bank. It seems that this was not the first case, although it hurts so much to Mr Haider that such people can exist with him. At Rosenstingl you came up with it, and he thinks: Where did Rosenstingl come from? - Not seen yet! [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said that at the barmüller too!]] At Meischberger we see at once: That's got system! - It is true, Mr Stadler, that Meischberger in this party seems to be able to exist so well because he simply knows too much because he has been doing with Jörg Haider's shoulder for too long what you blame others, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How is Dautzenberg?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because he knows too much!]] [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Dautzenberg!]] The fact that Mr Dautzenberg, as Mr Stadler points out here - and I have had to make an announcement - that he had to do with the exchange order, and that this has contributed to the fact that this building of FPÖ built on sand has been shaken, Mr Stadler, it may hurt you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Dautzenberg is there until now" – pointing to his nose – "in!"]] But here too it is: Their mentality - even in other questions - is to make victims. I shall certainly not let that happen to you in this matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Mr Meischberger has retreated, is probably sitting together with Jörg Haider and advises on how they can make it up, so he says: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Dautzenberg!]] If you give me a date, I won't say anything. That is how they are going to talk somewhere, and Mr Stadler has to hold the position for the time being. How was it at the data class in Salzburg? - This one's been mentioned today, too. You didn't go here and you might have found a word of excuse. - No, the Lord was still presented with hats and sunglasses at the party meeting. There are all those who still have to relinquish their mandates today. There you can see, ladies and gentlemen, as well as being treated with double morality in the FPÖ! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Somehow we are glad that we are rid of you!]] If Mr Haider has complained here today, as is the case with the double incomes and doubles, then he probably did not think of Mr Bauer at all - as a political pensioner still sitting here. He will also not have thought of the ex-citizen Götz from Graz, whom he excluded and then re-entered as honorary in the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Barmüller! I've got an extradition desire against Heide Schmidt for data clau! § 50 Data protection law!]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has apparently not been thought of, but one is here and pretends, as if Mr Rosenstingl, the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist, were only "ordinary" in the amount of damage that was probably caused by 200 million schilling, according to Mr Stadler - which is at least as true of him as is the case with Mr Rosenstingl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Demand for extradition against Schmidt! Delivery desires against Schmidt!]] But it seems you're not willing to think once. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply clear that the case of Rosenstingl is not a free individual case, but it may well be that it is not even a liberal first case. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Demand for extradition against Schmidt for data clau! Schmidt Datakluu!]] Mr Stadler, who is constantly trying to interfere here, is, of course, very accurate. For one thing, Mr Stadler, I know of you, of course: The case of Rosenstingl is nothing more than the implementation of exactly the indifference and responsibility that led the FPÖ under Jörg Haider. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Demand for extradition against Schmidt for data clau! Fall Kier, Fall Schmidt, Fall Dautzenberg!]] The fact that Mr Haider is not sitting here today as a data collector already has his good reason, Mr Stadler. That you have never gone into it before and have thought that, on the other hand, you cannot break laws, as you have often already done, and have then hidden behind your immunity and used them to ultimately discredit them, I take note of that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is very stupid!]] Haider, although having to do data lifting, makes his informant, because he immediately shows everything where the name is practically still, even a delinquent. But that doesn't matter to him, because when it comes to the headline, nobody matters at all, not even his own group. I remember, for example, the case of Mr Haider - he is always so sensitive when he is touched in his honor, and has a total glass chin - which Professor Doralt has put underlerable things which have proved to be absolutely unsustainable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] Mr Haider has then been sentenced, in all instances - he must withdraw it. What did he do? - He has only had to be forced by execution to accept a judgment of the Republic of Austria! He didn't say on his own: I'm sorry, Professor Doralt, it was an error of mine. - I'm telling you why he didn't say this: Because it wasn't a mistake! He knew it much better! This is how it is done: One goes here, defams people, cuts off their honor, then is condemned in all instances, and then the FPÖ-Obmann Jörg Haider says: But I won't do that again, I'll be executed before! - That's what he paid with party money anyway, of course it's not refunded from the Social Fund of the Liberals, because you don't need to be afraid! That is what the taxpayers themselves pay if Mr Haider feels hurt in his honour! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] But it's obviously clear: This is a mentality that is being lived at the head of FPÖ under Jörg Haider, and Mr Rosenstingl will have thought: What these can do, I can do too! - What happened, you know. [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At least one has to stick to what one is supposed to stand for. Mr Haider, when he became head of state in Carinthia, thought: The country's representations are not enough for a Jörg Haider with 500 000 S. That's up there. - That's what he made clear, namely, once again to 4 million. Jörg Haider said: The fact that these service cars are always driven by people from these semi-public and public institutions is immense, therefore we in Carinthia - he said at that time as head of state - will limit that to 350 000 S. - Then he bought a seven-year BMW around 700 000 S, because he doesn't stick to it himself. - That is what this FPÖ in this country is doing in truth, and we now know that, you just have to remember it! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Haider's keywords are just words.]] Ladies and gentlemen! He did that when he was head of state of Carinthia, but to become head of state of Carinthia, Jörg Haider did not temper himself at all! He didn't have that at all... - Karl, I was at FPÖ from 1990 to almost 1993 and I emphasize that I was there, and I don't want to go back there for anything in the world, I tell you! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where were you 1990/91/92/93? Where were you?]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where were you four years, almost four years? Why didn't you miss out?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't want you back in the world!]] To become a Kärntner head of state, Jörg Haider thought that must be worth something to us. That must, of course, be worth it to him. He has an agreement to become head of state because he is opposed to post-achievers and has to keep objectivity in that country, and this must be secured by contract, he meant. In the agreement he then wrote [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Thomas, actor! You're an actor!]] The representatives of the FPÖ Carinthia elect Christof Zernatto for three years as head of state. The FPÖ receives the President of the National School Council for this purpose. The FPÖ shall take the position of the Chairman of the KWF. FPÖ shall be chaired by the Workers' Promotion Advisory Council. The education of land holding is immediately realized. The Chairmanship of the Landesholding remains with the FPÖ. - So you've been involved before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] No, it's going on, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Haider said the same thing about objectivity: The Carinthian Tourism Society is being reformed organizationally! He also meant: FPÖ is given an option to re-occupying the Presidency in the Supervisory Board! However, Mr Haider has also had great ideas for reforming the country day. He wanted to order a new country day director and said: This position is for the FPÖ! All of this has been recorded in writing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is "ordinary" freedom policy!]] And do you know what's especially great about that? - You'll find Jörg Haider's signature in the back. [[The speaker shows a signed document.]] - This is Enlightenment, that's FPÖ's privilege struggle! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is "ordinary employment policy"!]] In view of this situation, it is only clear that the FPÖ under Jörg Haider, Porsche driver Jörg Haider, is not the solution. The FPÖ under Porsche driver Jörg Haider is the problem! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10013	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would draw attention to the fact that actual corrections come to the end of the debate. Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10042	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can actually seamlessly link up where the colleague from the Liberal Forum, Barmüller, stopped: It is actually the FPÖ the problem and not a single person! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how many million Members of Parliament have mistrusted Rosenstingl and whether he has mistrusted her; I do not know. But I know the following, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: I recall a broadcast of the "ZiB 2" or "ZiB 3" a few days ago, in which your Lower Austrian country party chairman has acted and said - addressed the accusations by the bank officials who were, or were still, a free party member and wanted to candidate, that this bank official should have informed the national party presidents at a confidential meeting -: I do not know if he has named the first name of Mr Rosenstingl or the last name. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to stand by this sentence very briefly: Was it the first name or was it the last name? Who of the two has said the untruth, the bank official who claimed to have kept the banking secret, or the national party chairman who publicly claimed that the name was called? - If the name had been mentioned as stated by Mr Gratzer, Mr Gratzer, the State Party President, would have been obliged to present a statement of facts to these bank officials, his party member. But the method chosen is typical of how it is in the context of this party: We are talking about the fact that we are still trying to make this up in the intimate context, even to the danger that a small banking secret might be violated. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! The party is the problem, not the person Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Madl: Now it's gonna be fun!]] However, I do not agree with my previous speaker, Mr Fekter, in the request, Mrs Fekter, that Mr Haider should miss out on the Augiasstall. That's the wrong method. The problem of this party is that it is a leader party, that it is just so structured that the leader, the chairman, has all the power. The rise of this party is inseparably linked to the name Jörg Haider. The artists and satraps have benefited. The ascent of the Lord Haider has nourished the artists, and it is the essence of the artists and satraps to honor the ruler, to assure him of submission. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A la Fast!]] It is the problem of the ruler that he perceives nothing more of reality than the thanks of the artificial ones. And even if the bendlings of the artists are getting deeper and deeper, as we have experienced in the case of the Lord Quickly, if they become quite deep, this is still not a method of producing cleanliness, purity in the party. That's the problem. A leader party, like the liberals, has created the problem as it is. There is no party in Austria, I would like to say - and this can also be demonstrated - that its rise is linked to as many cases of corruption, personal injuries, personal misdemeanors, fraud cases as those of the Freedom Party. Ladies and gentlemen! I call you a number of incidents that have actually occurred, no matter what judicial decisions have been taken concerning the persons who have led them. In the case of the liberals, Mr Achs, when I remember quite correctly, some of these cases were mentioned years ago - in the last ten or fifteen years not only of those who have accompanied Mr Haider's rise in a leading position have repeatedly produced cases of corruption. I'm just calling the party's Federal Managing Directors. At first there was Mr. Harald Göschl - he was served for a Libya connection. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The woman Schmidt knows it!]] Then came Mr. Walter Meischberger, who had the problem with his Liechtenstein connection. Previously, the name of Mr Scheibner, who obviously had problems with unemployment insurance. Thus, the cases of leading officials of the Freedom Party could continue. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't touch Schmidt like that!]] The Freedom Party has - Message: That was colleague Achs! - their election campaign videos through letterbox companies in Liechtenstein. The Carinthian Landtagsklubmann Strutz apparently used a telephone call for press releases. - Similar to the case we know from Salzburg. The Villacher FPÖ finances its party secretary from tax resources. The FPÖ National Council candidate of the district of St. Pölten - he resigned today, then he was still a candidate - had a trial for election fraud. The Steyrer FPÖ City Councils Günter Fürweger and Hans Payseartner used training funds provided by the municipality for private purposes. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A "clean" state!]] The ex-footballer and real estate agent Klaus Lindenberger wanted to run for the Freedom Party for the National Council, but withdrew his candidate when it became known that he had wronged 44 000 s of unemployment benefit. For many years, the FPÖ education plant has financed travels for Members and party events from tax resources. The Tyrolean countryman Horst Wendling acted as a politician against the sale of land and land, but as a partner of a real estate company, he advised foreigners about the acquisition of Tyrolean properties. The former mayor of Innsbruck Michael Passer is said to have made Black Money Agreements with his clients as a tax advisor. The FPÖ Landtag President in Styria Ludwig Rader had a procedure for tax evasion. The FPÖ health spokesman Harald Fischl had a labor court trial because he was supposed to have taken over-excessed commissions in millions and put private detectives on his employees for the purpose of arrogance. The municipal council candidate Wilhelm Geistlinger from Adnet in Salzburg, also expresser of the liberals - joined under the parole "More honesty and cleanliness" - has tried to put banknotes in circulation of 42 million schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Oillinger! Are you gonna be done today when you list all of them?]] The electoral and social funds of the liberals in Burgenland have already been mentioned today, together with the person of Mr Rauter, who has applied for unemployed income and at the same time housing support. Black settlement payments on the occasion of the termination of a service relationship of the Carinthian liberal works council Keller. The Economic Police has decided against the then Secretary-General Rumpold for a Causa that has affected his chauffeur. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Oillinger! We know you can still quote cases for hours!]] - I know, I can still talk for hours. There are also some examples. The example Götz has already been mentioned. A friend of Mr Meischberger, who forms his own causa, has been arrested in Tyrol because he is said to have cheated an insurance company of 3.7 million schillings. Then there are the well-known cases of black-and-collar work. This is a particularly popular topic - foreigners out, guest workers out and so on. And there is the peculiarity that the party, which has repeatedly voted in elections and has also won elections, has a lot of politicians in its own ranks, right up to the head of the party Jörg Haider in his Bear Valley, which has always occurred in recent years, because they have been illegally employed: Bärental - Mr Haider. Erich Engl, Wiener Landtagsreiter, resigned for two black workers. FPÖ Carinthia, FPÖ Styria, then Mr Ruthofer in Carinthia. There has also been a causa about Mr Mentil, rumors about Mr Nußbaumer, social media debates about Mr Lindenberger, about the Adrian Holaender - who is still thinking of him?, he was also a candidate of the Freeman - about Mr Scheibner, about a Vorarlberger AK peak candidates for fraud and so on. But - with that I come back to the essential and at the heart of this Freedom Party - the peculiar thing is that things are happening again and again in the centre of this interweaving of power around Mr Haider and that economic interrelationships are created, a felt between economic and political power, which is also worthy of investigation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very dubios!]] Mr Hofmann, obviously one of the financiers of the liberals and also a patron of Mr. Haider - with whom Mr. Haider bought his Porsche - is at the same time involved in the radio society which the liberals have built: RS Private Radio. One hand washes the other, and one thing results in the other. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The company where the "Meischi" is employed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One could even come to Mr Prinzhorn, who was named by the "Economics Week" as the Grand Master of the acceptance of subsidies and excessive users of state guarantees. [[Abg. Leikam: You haven't said anything about the girl yet!]] This is a quote from the "Economic Week" about Mr. Prinzhorn, and it says only part of what Mr. Prinzhorn was accused of at the time. It was also a question of Mr Prinzhorn having his employees sharpened and of not being very friendly to his employees. But these are only marginal issues that are no longer the central ones. In the centre it is about you having believed over the years, with this rise - I am quite sure with Mr Mölzer - to be able to submit to this country, up to the gestures of Mr Rumpold and Mr Westenthal, who, when he was caught while driving black, still roared and said: We're going to kill ourselves for this country, and then a police officer comes and wants to punish me? Maybe because of alcohol at the wheel or something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Swiss.]] The way Mr Rumpold did it in Gmunden, these are gestures of people who think they could already control this country and they could allow themselves to do anything in this Republic. [[Abg. Leikam: What did Mr Rumpold do?]] - That's your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The wild growth there has been in your ranks is not the exception, it has method, it is part of your ascent and has accompanied you over the years. Just because you've always attracted the artists, you've been able to grow so strong and big. And now that the artists are at some risk of getting into their own or foreign pockets or having taken hold of them, you have a problem. You cannot solve this problem with your principle of leadership, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is the all too big difference between what you are leading in the mouth, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, and what you have put in your own pocket in recent years. And that should actually be reason and reason enough to look at the practices in the centre of this party. Finally, I would like to remind you of Mr Gratzer - perhaps Mr Gratzer will resign today or tomorrow - that I recall the significant sentence on bank officials: He may have said the first name or perhaps the last name of Mr Rosenstingl. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a little light on how you deal with the laws in this republic. For this it does not need the data clause, for that it does not need the many additions of other fraud cases, that says enough about what is in your party program and method. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to examine not only the Causa Rosenstingl but all that has been set up to do in the context of an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10221	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10239	Mr President. High house! To be honest: It seems that an economic system for the financing of the FPÖ would have broken down in the most embarrassing way. This is what we should discuss here, because when it comes to an order of 200 million schillings, it is not about organizing any butter bread, but it was simply the attempt to organize funding for the party, and the attempt to organize a certain system of dependence and clientele. I therefore come to this conclusion, because from the beginning you have been trying to present Rostingl as an individual, as an individual case, as if he had at some point inconspicuously slammed into the liberal club. I bet that after several hours of debate, the first Members of the Liberal Group will ask: Who was Rosenstingl? I don't know him at all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Was he one of us? He left us. - That's about to be formulated. When I consider that Haider once said proudly in a press conference: I can actually get any information from the police! - Any information! - and so many speeches here, in which he has shown us: You have changed from hard to soft toothbrush, but you have actually not used toothpaste at all today!, then I have to come to the following question: If one is so well-informed, why is he suddenly the only one or one of the few who didn't know anything at all? - It must therefore obviously be far more behind! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Please do not deceive us with the "Pradler Ritterspiele" you have been organising in Austria for weeks: 700 heads of Salzburg! And after a week again: 700 heads up! And here are Members coming down: Shut up! One is as measured and says - holding the head in his hand -: But I'll come back, put him up again and be among you again! - That's about the strategy you've been trying to wash yourself in here today, but that won't work! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] In fact, Ewald Stadler should have given a very different speech today - I have come to know in his texts and also in the texts of Jörg Haider - that he should have spoken today about the self-service shop, as he obviously rules in the FPÖ. He should have spoken today about how bad it is to get into the pockets of the citizens and use themselves there - tag: 200 million schilling. He should have talked about the blue caste that runs into his own pockets. Whether as a Christian or as a Bible researcher, he should have raised the question at all: What is more blessed, then give or take? An important theological question that only this house theologian Stadler can really clarify! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Or the opportunity when Jörg Haider began to take the book written by Sichrovsky seriously - I quote page 134 -: Not the privilege riders and corruptions are excluded, but the decks are branded as traitors as soon as they no longer play. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You caught the wrong book! That was the wrong book you quoted there!]] Haltmeyer, I'm just saying he didn't want to play anymore, he was the traitor, he had to give up all the functions. What was the background? - Stadler should have said in an attack of courage: But Haider was in front of the snakes Rosenstingl, Mentil, Gratzer, Schreiner nothing but a fear-striking rabbit, waving in front of the door of the National Party Board of the FPÖ Lower Austria. - I take over the hacks for Mr Stadler and bring the various texts. So write down for the answer after that, because this is also a very important work! Or Stadler could have said, angry, emotional, this time addressed to the liberals: Your blue scandalous brothers, your blue blood gel - and then, almost surpassing yourself: Your blue felt lice, not even blue acid can be applied against you! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] Or Stadler, almost depressive, could have said, even thinking a little about himself: The FPÖ has resigned spiritually and morally as a party. Or he could have said, almost already near the tears: The FPÖ - a little too thinking about itself - is a characterless party. Or he could have - especially thinking of himself - say: FPÖ is suffering from dwindling unprincipledness. - And here we are at the heart of this policy, the dubious unprincipledness, which is particularly reflected in such important issues as political morality and political cleanliness. Perhaps he can say once in an attack of optimism, almost as much as as a seer: This filtrated political system of FPÖ has long been stormy. - Please don't call for orders at the end of the speech, because these are all the original quotes of Stadler, Haider and so on. I would just like to say this here so that we can finally give the floor to Stadler. Or at the address Jörg Haiders: Why, when Haltmeyer said that, Jörg Haider wasn't man enough to put these things off with these things? Why was that? What does the Haider say about it? Maybe he'll talk anyway, then he can finally make a point. Or he could say, again to the FPÖ club: You're nothing but a third-class Raubriterstadl! I would like to know how the FPÖ's club meeting would end when this critical work is finally being carried out, which would have been necessary for a long time. I would like to conclude with a last quote. In reality, they have described themselves in such a way today and have already described themselves best for a long time: as a bunch of chickens that float through a vulture aimlessly around.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10304	Mr Dr. Haider. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10322	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Cap's bulwark speech, I can, in a few words, go back to the debate that is so important to you. [[Call the SPÖ:Quote!]] You have said today that this is a very serious matter and not something for cabaretist deposits. But as a Member of Parliament, one determines the value of the matter, depending on how one behaves. But if it is so important today to hold this debate because an event has taken place that has deeply shaken all of you, as you say, including the liberals, then one should try to look at things a little more fundamentally. I admit that for us liberals this development is not at all acceptable that we, just as any other party, which would have been surprised by such an incident, are deeply affected. I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that you, as the group of four in Parliament, are trying to benefit from your opportunity to point out to the liberals. [[Call:]] However, I would also like to remind you that you, ladies and gentlemen, have basically failed with your activities today, because you have tried with a hypocrisy to make accusations here which you do not make apply to yourself in similar or similar cases. I'll talk to you later. [[Intervocations at SPÖ, including the Abg. Headmaster.]] - The prosecutors are still here, Mr Koppler. We liberals, however, do not take this on the basis that we are elegantly moving about it and saying: If nothing was done, let us see that we are going to survive, but let us draw a clear line to the Gauner, who is here for discussion, and of course take all precautions to prevent such things from happening in the future, at least in the Freedom Party. That's something very decisive. [[Call the SPÖ:Meischberger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is more about discussion than just the question of whether a party is a party that is a party to the opposition. She is unpleasant as a group of governments, can now shake or not. [[Calls.]] Please, Mrs Schmidt, hold back! There is still a procedure against you for breach of data protection, where you have been hiding only behind immunity. Since 1993! You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Play So you are not the teacher of the nation here if you hide yourself behind immunity in order not to let a data protection procedure act against you. Voices You are today in favour of abolishing immunity as a major consequence of this debate which we have to hold here! We'll see if you're all hiding behind your immunity or if you're willing to finally lift this immunity today. You will have the opportunity to do so because we have put forward a deadline request. That'll be a good thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's something else to add. It also raises the question for us... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] - You have to be careful, because someone who has led a political newspaper with more than 100 million schillings to promote money has no moral right to act against us here. Remember that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You won't threaten me! You diffamier!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question at all arises as to how it is possible for an individual in Austria to receive so many loans without adequate insurance, without anyone passing on the relevant information in the banking sector. The fact that you do not want to do so is that in 1995, as it is now apparent, the Oberbank in Upper Austria had a silent balance of more than 100 million schillings. And the head of this Oberbank is the president of the Banking Association in Austria. No information to the banks, no information to the prosecutor's office, no information to Parliament! 100 million schilling silent compensation - silence on it, the coat of silence spread over it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Cheap distraction maneuver!]] Many would have been prevented if the banks were to establish, even with superior personalities in Austria, the hard standards they apply to every small merchant today, to every worker who has to borrow a loan; they must have a 100%, a 200 percent security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also interesting for me, Mr. Federal Minister - do not have for nothing This is why you have also made a statement today, stating that there have been bureaucratic problems of delivery - why you have not actually made progress with your authorities in the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Now the Minister of Justice is to blame!]] They have been one of the first to have received information on this subject. They have been reimbursed as one of the first reports. You have to say that. These are all the reports that will be discussed here, including the EDOK as a special unit, which has already determined in autumn, in particular including the financial procedure which has been in place since autumn. No one has received any knowledge of this, except for Mr President-in-Office of the Council. They all kept silent because they said: I hope the story explodes, then it harms the liberal! This, ladies and gentlemen, is a strange understanding of the office you have here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The word "responsibility" seems strange to you!]] Those who have tried to discredit you today and in the last few days have made it clear to you that we have a different understanding of political responsibility, namely that they will also make their mandate available until the appropriate accusations are clarified. And this is annoyed, ladies and gentlemen, of course. This is annoyed by you, because Mr Kostelka must now consistently make his mandate available. The prosecutor also determines against him for 33 million Schilling party funding, which he has unlawfully committed. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The comparison is limping!]] Mr Löschnak had to leave Parliament, and Mr Marizzi had to leave Parliament, where Mr Fuhrmann had to leave Parliament, all of which were involved in investigation in connection with Mr Loutchansky of the Nordex: Trade in arms, mafia butter, mediation of SPÖ delegates. Mr. Fuhrmann was the legal representative of the Mafiosi Loutchansky of the Nordex. Now he will not give up his immunity in order to reward it, not abandon his mandate, but he will even become European judges for the fact that the Mafia has elected him as a legal representative. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: With the voices of the liberals!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is your special understanding! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or Mr Heindl of the SPÖ: Wasn't he managing director for Hofman and Maculan's foreign business? Wasn't he? Did he not have to resign today consistently because he was most heavily burdened by a billion bankruptcy in the course of which thousands of people lost their jobs? Mr Koppler, why do you measure by two measures? Why don't you take the consequences? [[Abg. Koppler: You can't compare that to Rosenstingl!]] That's what we've gotten you today: Our people draw the consequences while you sit on your armchairs. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Don't talk about the protection of the little people who are sorry for you! There is a group sitting here, where 15 000 people have lost their jobs, who have not once thought of the small people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where were you, ladies and gentlemen? Where were the union representatives? Don't tell me you're thinking about the little people! Where was the Federal Chancellor at Semperit? He promised the people: I will fight for your jobs, and then the people have been put to work and the work has been locked up. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where are your promises in Magdalen?]] What did Mr Edlinger do after Praschak's affair? What about the five-point programme that there should no longer be a party book economy in this country? Ladies and gentlemen! You are only as nervous today as a yawning chicken stable, because we have caught you that you yourself are not willing to suffer from political consequences. Here are all the pre-taxes, all of which are against the prosecutor's investigations. This is a "beautiful" meeting, ladies and gentlemen, starting with your clubman Kostelka, who is concerned with 33 million schilling stories. There are no political consequences. This makes the difference between the FPÖ and all of you who are not willing to act here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will be careful to go such a path as you, because wherever mismanagement, corruption and waste of public funds are discussed - up to your party newspaper, dear colleague - a red-black manuscript is visible and not a liberties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] And we will certainly continue to make sure that we do not have such things in mind in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz:... You son of a bitch!]] That's where you can make an effort to do whatever you want. In recent years you have done nothing but damage to the liberals, but we have won the elections, and you have been disabled after the elections, ladies and gentlemen. And in 1998, things will be like that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have experienced that, and I personally have experienced it. What have you tried to put everything in my mind? At the Bear Valley, things didn't go right. You've been representing this for years. Tax evasion: What did you propose to me on the question of tax policy? Old German chancellor Vranitzky has even been allowed to say at the 1st May celebration: The shark doesn't pay any taxes! And the ORF has reported a lot about it. Now he's been sentenced. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why are you distracting from the subject?]] [[Further calls.]] Mrs Fekter, you have probably been involved in interventions in your gravel pit, so that you may hide your natural rights, and have not been able to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Mr. Kostelka accused us of passing black money around in Carinthia. It's all collapsed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're trying to distract from Rosenstingl!]] In other words, your policy of sluggishing will be even less useful in the future, because we will be more careful to see that such things, which allow for a filtration of politics and private business, cannot take place in our ranks, because political morality is taken more seriously by us than by you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10636	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Deputies! However, at 3 p.m. a short debate on a deadline request is to be called up. I would like to draw your attention to this. Do you still want to talk? [[Abg. May. Peter: Then!]] Then I'll interrupt the meeting until 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10668	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10699	We come to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Magistrate. Stadler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Application 119/A (E) concerning the abolition of non-vocational immunity for national councillors, a period of time of 15 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10723	Before I go into the debate, I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested the establishment of an investigative committee to investigate the proceedings initiated by various authorities and institutions following the emergence of suspicions of economic criminal behaviour by Mr Peter Rosenstingl. Furthermore, according to Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by five Members is to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote on this request after completion of the agenda of the current sitting. We are now going into the debate requested by Mr Stadler. I would point out that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not speak for more than 5 minutes, except for the first speaker, who shall have a speaking time of 10 minutes. I call Mr Stadler. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10759	Mr President. High house! This motion for a resolution has been in the Constitutional Committee for two years since February 1996, without the members of the Constitutional Committee, in particular the two government parties, even touching one finger. All of a sudden, since there are the Malversations of Mr Rosenstingl, the representatives of the coalition parties are pretending, however, that they have always thought that the non-professional immunity of Members should be removed, ladies and gentlemen. For two years no finger has been touched and no debate has been held on our request at all, and now you are pretending to have been the problem of the nation's immunity, so to speak, that justice could act. We have heard today from the Federal Minister that the judicial system has slept heavily. Not only has the President supposedly not known anything about it and not informed us that Mr Rosenstingl's salary is being collected, but also that justice is acting as if it had not known anything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The non-professional immunity - Mrs Mertel, also your non-professional immunity! - is a relic that has to be abolished! In the future, no one should be able to stand behind immunity as a Member! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, Mr Maitz, with his plea stories, is not supposed to be able to make any sense of that. Where's Mr. Maitz? He has even been so evocative about the speech of Bundesobmann Haider and has constantly cracked down "drug slender" in the hope that he can overtone Dr. Haider with it! Mr Maitz, who has caused half a million schilling damage with his "tagespost" in the Styria, has also tried to spread behind immunity in a critical process, and has then allowed 170 million to be cut to the throat by means of national funding from the title of press promotion of the state of Styria. - A black corn, yes, no freemason! We don't have such a Mayz, and I'm glad about that! We've had enough problems with Rosenstingl already! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the corn, the smoke-callates, the Mensdorff-Pouillys, the Hermann Krafts we can thank, ladies and gentlemen! All these are people from the Austrian People's Party - except Mr. Marizzi with his cross-links to the East Mafia. Where's Mr. Marizzi? There's Mr. Marizzi back there! I had believed that he was already making calls with his Ostmafia contacts again, with Mr Loutchansky and his company Nordex, an important company of the East Mafia, who had struck again a few days ago by murdering a jeweler in Vienna. - All of this is in the responsibility of the red half of the empire, and then you're still playing, ladies and gentlemen, then you're still playing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You and your Ostmafia contacts, Mr. Marizzi! Not only have you tried to cash money for the award of arms orders here, no, you have also tried to organize an Austrian citizenship for Mr Loutchansky, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is unheard of! You're a bastard!]] Then there's a criminal procedure, and he's shoving behind immunity. Ladies and gentlemen! The immunity must be gone because there must no longer be Marizzis, Rosenstingls, gentlemen like Dr. Maitz and similar members of this House! [[Abg. Gaál: Such comparisons are inadmissible!]] They must be put in front of the judge immediately, where they belong, as well as any other citizen! If Mrs. Sittenwachter of this House, Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt, comes to the speaker's desk with arms restricted in the back and acts as a senior teacher of the nation, I can remind you: Mrs Schmidt! You are subject to criminal proceedings for breach of the Data Protection Act. This is a special standard of criminal law in Austria, in case you forget it! However, the procedure has not been possible since 1993 because the obstacle to the persecution of immunity does not exist. At that time, it was behind immunity, and the immunity committee did not deliver it. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that they should not be delivered at all, but that they should be abolished. Then you could also be told, Mrs Schmidt, how it belonged to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies, of course, to Mr Kostelka. Now he's racing around with some ridiculous sheet of paper, saying: Of course, for good money, an economic fidelity examines the socialist parliamentary club. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: An economic fidelity is ridiculous for you?]] - Professor Novotny! The paper with which your clubman used to get around in a ridiculous way is ridiculous! For this economic fidelity has been paid by you for it to issue you with a report of convenience. That's what I'm telling you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Court of Auditors should examine your party finances! We are prepared to have the Court of Auditors examined with us. The independent institution of this House, the independent control body of this Republic, is to examine the party finances of the Red Reich's half, so that once it becomes clear that your comrade Rudas has announced his own clubman at the criminal justice! This fine does not come from Rosenstingl and not from the liberals, it does not come from the ÖVP - you do not trust it there, because otherwise the ÖVP flees from the coalition -, rather this ad comes from your own party headquarters, ladies and gentlemen! Their own comrades approach each other, because otherwise Mr Kostelka is not applied. That's the problem behind it! 33 million schillings are not a crack! Mr Kostelka stands out here today and plays the moral guardian of the Republic, but he is already the subject of reporting again! In your own party paper, the magazine "NEWS", it is already reported in two editions that Mr Kostelka has misinterpreted 33 million schillings and has led to an illegal purpose by financing the election campaign of Mr. Vrannitzky, who had already gone alongside them. If that's not a criminal case! You should not point your finger to those who imagine how to deal with these things: Unbelievable Enlightenment, withdrawal from the mandates until things are clarified! And that's what we expect from you, too, if you claim that you have everything in your ranks in order!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10868	Mr Cap! Is Mayor Reschen, one of your former comrades, still a socialist? I would ask you, at some point, to make a reference to the fact that we are dealing with a request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10883	Mr President. If you have not yet recognized the reference, I will explain it exclusively to you: All these people would have ended up in front of the judge if there were no more immunity that we had long wanted to abolish! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President. I hope the context is now sufficiently clear. All these people would have landed before the judge, just like any other citizen, if it were no longer that immunity, which is completely untimely. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I am also invited to the judge because I have claimed that Mr Schimanek is lying!]] The same applies to Mr Reschen. Mr Reschen, too, has tried to escape the control of justice. But this does not prevent the Federal Chamber of Commerce from sending him to Lithuania with a very dubious blood plasma company in a company structure in which contaminated blood canneds were traded, so that Mr. Reschen in Lithuania will probably offer contaminated blood plasma, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call for the call.]] Schmidt is also such a case. The list of these people is endless. She reads like a "Who Is Who" of the great coalition. It is almost necessary to present their entire party cartel here! I therefore call Mr Reschen and his blood plasma company with contaminated blood and Mr Madethaner in Vilnius, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Steindl! Do you want to know exactly so that you can prepare for the next procedures? It's about the company Europharm, and in this is the company Albovina, which was closed because it did dirty business with contaminated blood plasma! This coalition should be ashamed of it! You've covered this scandal to this day! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If SPÖ had not accidentally shot a bank director, we would not have realized that there is a single party political, criminally relevant swamp in the banking sector, ladies and gentlemen. - Mr Jarolim! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Shame!]] If anyone had reason to be ashamed of the suicide of Mr. Praschak, then it's the whole SPÖ! Believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am not responsible for suicide in my party, so I am sleeping with good conscience! I don't have a Mr. Scholten to answer in my party rages, and therefore sleep good conscience! You probably can't claim that from your party and yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't know what you're saying anymore!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are going to act today like the Socialists and their attachment to ÖVP and speak of the fact that we want to clarify without delay and have no special right for politicians, Mr Khol, then we must accept our request. If you are not even willing to negotiate this request today, then all that you have today tapped from the speaker's mouth and squirted it to moraline will be resolved in nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10971	The speaking time of all the other ladies and gentlemen mentioned in this debate is now up to 5 minutes. Mr Herzegovina is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e10992	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The request and the failures of the previous speaker are another pitiful distraction of the FPÖ of the Rosenstingl case. - So much is clear once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This distraction maneuver will fail as will all the unfit attempts of the FPÖ in the last days and weeks and in the coming days and weeks to remove responsibility from this FPÖ party scandal. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will not agree to this deadline request. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The motion for a resolution is also unacceptable for the SPÖ - Mr Stadler! You are greatly mistaken in your assessment! - he is unfit for constitutional, democratic and right-wing! Ladies and gentlemen! On the constitutional aspect: Sensely defined species. 57 that no member of the National Council may be arrested or prosecuted without the consent of the National Council for a criminal act, except for fresh action. - This has a deeper meaning, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a political constellation not to be excluded for all the future, within which a minister of the Interior abuses his power and the executive is committed to pursuing fascistic goals. I am thinking of people who steal data, such as fast, or men for the gross, such as rumpold, who are then incarcerating and persecuting Members, thus affecting the National Council and, in extreme cases, being able to paralyze. Ladies and gentlemen! This danger must be addressed with vigilance. Therefore, an administrative procedure against national councillors is only possible if the National Council is convinced of its need. This is a democratic security which is in the public interest, which is also undisputed in science and literature. It is therefore a question of meeting the danger of Members being illegally removed from the National Council. On the other hand, if a FPÖ delegate himself is illegally removed, that is something else! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! That's just your problem. That is why I ask you not to bother the hard-working and decent Members of the House with requests for deadlines and distractions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in the 1990s, the number of offending crimes has increased enormously. Especially the clubman of the FPÖ, the one who casts the Klubobmannsgage, i.e. Dr. Haider - and not the one who always receives calls of order, namely the Lower Austrian in Spe Stadler - has hidden behind this democratic security in order to be able to extremely insult citizens whose reputation is to harm and commit criminal acts. I am now referring to the offence of honor in accordance with § 111 and § 115. The parliamentary immunity committee has changed its practice. And I'm asking you: Who was against it? Who can remember? - The FPÖ was the one who fought with hands and feet in the immunity committee and voted against this practice. That is why the ridiculousness of this request is shown here again! In the case of offending crimes, extradition is the practice. This practice has proved successful in the last two years. A decision will be taken this week to continue this practice. Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is out of edge and band, is facing the mess of its populist policy and has also been very pitifully failed with this deadline request. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Take note of the fact that, first, any insult of decent citizens will continue to be prosecuted in the Committee on Immunities. Secondly, Each party is first and foremost responsible for the mandates nominated on its list, and therefore the FPÖ is politically responsible, politically responsible and politically responsible for the case of Rosenstingl!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11070	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11088	Mr President. High house! Before: The ÖVP will refuse to approve this deadline request. I should like to remind you that two years ago, exactly: on 29 October, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. A decision of principle was taken on February 1996, according to which in the case of private creditors the ill-repudiation, in the event of a criminal offence already committed, in the event of insult and credit damage, a request for extradition of the courts by the immunity committee and consequently by the National Council. The success of the present extradition practice is right. I bring a comparison of the legislative periods: ==References== We had 35 cases in the legislative period, in the XVIII. We had 27 cases in the legislative period. After that we had a short legislative period of 8 cases, and in the current legislative period we had 6 cases so far, and we will be dealing with 2 cases again on Thursday. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is proof of the accuracy of our request!]] These cases will be dealt with accordingly in the Committee. We weigh each and every one and then decide. There is another decision, namely that we will be able to make up to 30 years of age. Analyzing this practice on June 1998 and setting out the further procedure - and that is what we are going to do for Thursday. That is why I do not understand the excitement within the FPÖ. I am in favour of continuing this decision-making practice until the end of the legislative period. I see no reason to make a change and therefore I am also in favour of maintaining non-professional immunity. Mr Haider! I am in good company with Members of your own ranks. For example, Dr. Ofner - he'll confirm this to me! - a different view. Mr President, I should like to thank I listened to you exactly two years ago: You were in favour of even extending the immunity rights of Members! Is that right? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] That is why I would recommend you, Mr Stadler, before you make any requests to clear the line. There are three reasons why I am in favour of maintaining non-professional immunity. First: This is an autonomous decision by Parliament that we should not let go of. Secondly, One should not prejudicate future periods. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We do that with every law!]] Thirdly, It is a constitutional law, and with a two-thirds majority, something is quickly removed, but not so quickly introduced. Finally, when I looked at the request, I noticed something: It means that the National Council wants to decide that the Federal Government is asked to present a government proposal to the National Council. That means: The government should present something to the National Council - and immunity is limited to the Members. I think that's our business. There is still the separation of violence. That is why I am in favour of maintaining current practice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11142	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11160	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it must be made clear that this proposal for a time limit and this motion for a resolution should not, for example, eliminate the entire immunity of Members, but only the non-professional immunity. The professional immunity to be maintained here in the house is of course to be maintained. One should also make a distinction between professional and non-vocational immunity and take account of this delimitation also of the incident which massively burdened Clubobmann Peter Kostelka, namely the incident of illegal club financing. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The fact that a lawyer claims such a thing is a groundless cowardice!]] Mr Kostelka! I am sure you will be right in saying that if the taxpayer carries out a club financing and does not land 33 million in the club, the club will only be a run-through post and the money will be passed on to the party, it will simply be a matter of infidelity, Mr Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You are really unfrozen!]] The infidelity of infidelity within the meaning of § 153 is fulfilled if someone knowingly has foreign property at the disadvantage of the taxpayer, as in this case, for the benefit of the party and not of the club. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You know exactly that this is not true!]] Mr Kostelka! Now I am in the demarcation between professional and non-professional immunity: If the professional immunity of the House is subject to a closer examination, it can be seen that only votes and oral or written statements of professional immunity are subject here in the House, but not the unlawful transfer of club funds financed by the taxpayer to the party. That would not be a case of professional immunity! In other words, In this case, one is in the field of non-professional immunity. And now the circle closes, and everything becomes clear: Mr Kostelka! From a socialist point of view, in a proven way - and by the ÖVP the wall is made - they do not agree with the abolition of non-professional immunity only in order to prevent an objective examination of this scandalous matter, namely this possible offence of infidelity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Stadler has already stated that a contract report has been obtained, in which it has been certified that everything has the right and order. They have faked something, for example, that advertising services have been commissioned; However, sales tax has never been paid! - From the front to the back, this is a construction that, in my opinion, can't be appropriate in criminal proceedings to document your indebtedness. Mr Kostelka! I agree with you that this should be examined. If you have a white vest, you agree to the abolition of non-professional immunity! They argue that you have great concerns about the rule of law. To this end: There are also constitutional lawyers who say that professional immunity is entirely sufficient and we do not need any extra-professional immunity. If this still seems too risky to you, then we agree to a temporary abolition of non-professional immunity, then we have the investigation in that case, and otherwise we do not have it! If you do not do that, you must be accused that you want to do nothing but hide and not have a manifestly criminal offence investigated by law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, in this particular case, the criminal authorities should be examined. It should also be abolished for other reasons, because it is a relic of absoluteism and is no longer contemporary. The difference between the cases of Mr Schreiner and Mr Mentil is the following: In their cases, experts are used, but there is no criminal behaviour, not even such suspicion. In this case, there is no review other than the review by the professional board itself. But in other cases, a review can only take place if you agree to the abolition of non-professional immunity. If you, Mr Kostelka, believe that all of this is right, you will be given the consent if you, Mr Kostelka, are also able to wash yourself in a subjective manner. - Your rejection will be assessed from this point of view! Let me just say something: A curiosum has just occurred.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11232	Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11247	The final sentence, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is as follows: Mr Khol, when my colleague, Mr Schreiner, took the floor, said: Well, do you step back? And to the great surprise of Mr. Khol, Schreiner has actually declared his resignation. - Mr. Khol! The problem was to read in your face, either because you did him wrong or because your attacks go into emptiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11274	The next speaker is Dr. Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Time-limitation applications should always be taken seriously from an opposition point of view. In the present case, however, I have certain concerns, namely that it will not be really easy to re-examine the discussion which has been missed over the two years on this request within four weeks. But if the Freedom Party considers that it is possible to do so until the 15th century. We have to be right in the Committee on Budgets on June. I doubt that a serious discussion is possible. As you know - the chairman of the Immunities Committee has also expressed this - we have changed practice for a long time in the Immunities Committee. We have started the real problem field: We are now handing over to the overlording crimes of honor, which are criminal acts that are judicially punishable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on this point. - This has had an interesting preventive effect, and there is also a level playing field for the offended citizens. And that was the main problem. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For cases like Kostelka and Marizzi, this is useless!]] On the other hand, the discussion that we have to have in this context is very sensitive. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] If you once again, as here, by intervening with my club lady, say that this is an administrative penalty, because it is alleged that a DVR number has not been established somewhere on a envelope, then I can tell you: This is, of course, the subject of data protection law, that is true! This, however, is about something else. The procedure will be suspended until the end of the mandate and will be continued. It's not funny for us to be that way. We would have liked to have done this quickly. In addition, this is something different than when it comes to database collapses, which is also covered by data protection law! Semantics is important in this context. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore believe that this is an inappropriate example, and I would like to say that we would be prepared to discuss whether or not administrative criminal offences are generally committed, because they do not comply with any criminal standards in the judicial sense, from the point of view of immunity. It is also known that you cannot call on immunity if you drive too fast by car or park it wrong. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the political context here?]] - No, of course, there is no political connection, although sometimes - I deliberately say it a little paradox - it can be quite clear that someone who has encountered something and who does not want to come to a vote too late will take off his car somewhere. In this case too, he should pay his penalty mandate because it will not really affect him politically, he could have stood up earlier. ==References====External links== I don't know. In addition: The case of Rosenstingl would not have been affected by this because the political context was the problem. In the Committee on Immunities, we have unanimously found that, despite political contexts, extradition is to take place. If you had come through with your request, Rosenstingl wouldn't have been delivered yet. [[Abg. May. Stadler: At the abolition!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: At least the authorities could have persecuted him!]] That's why I'm asking to leave the church in the village! Your request for deadlines is fine dyeing, pure dyeing! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11385	The last speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Then we'll vote. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11403	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the Freedom Party has been too hard to make it difficult for everyone/anyone else to agree to this request, I will still do so. I am of the opinion that we should, in particular, discuss applications for opposition within the relevant committees quickly and come to a conclusion. In the case, it is indeed difficult because of the reasons. The reason for being thrown here so wildly with words is obviously the one to give the impression that four parties are against one, thereby taking on a martyr’s role. That should be sought, and I think that should be addressed. The nature of the accusations has already been enormous, and it is important to me that this form is once again contained in the Minutes. In connection with the Causa Doralt, auditors were accused of having a "admissibility report", and the Member of Parliament was called Marizzi in connection with the murder of a Vienna jeweler. That, I think, is self-evident. Further: The weekly magazine "NEWS" was accused of impurity. The SPÖ or both government parties were accused of dealing with contaminated blood plasma, a serious criminal offence, and the SPÖ was also accused of the suicide of Praschaks, whereas in the case of suicides of people who were close to the FPÖ, no one made such an enormous accusation to my knowledge. [[Abg. Marizzi: That's right!]] But that is the particular way in which this party works, and I think that this should also be taken into account properly, but not be allowed to do so in voting behaviour. Second point: There have not only been enormous accusations, but there have always been sexist derailments and contaminations of other Members. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt can speak in any posture here! If you mention this in order to make it contemptible, it will not accomplish its purpose. President Fischer will already know what he is talking about, and it is necessary to give him his admonition to talk about the matter, not to teach with the words: If you didn't understand...! - These are very specific verbal expressions that serve to make political competitors despicable. And this is a method that is hardest to reject! [[Congratulations with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] In the matter itself, as mentioned above, I am for this: Let us talk about this request. I shall certainly vote against the Committee because the proposal does not, on the one hand, bring anything in this form and, on the other hand, it goes beyond the objective. He doesn't do anything because he didn't find any application in the Causa Rosenstingl. The extra-parliamentary immunity has nothing to do with the Causa Rosenstingl, as the unanimous decision of the request is. The request passes this Causa and has nothing to do with it. - Them misses! On the other hand, he shoots beyond the goal: If the opinion of Mr Stadler were correct that this was an "ordinary Gauner", then it would be a little overshadowed to amend the parliamentary rules for a "ordinary Gauner". I think it is precisely the Rules of Procedure of this House and the standards that the procedure in this House concerns should have increased stock guarantees and not go to the knees of an "ordinary novice". [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to protect the honors of people who have been accused here, who have been subject to wild things that reach to murder, I have long suggested - I think we should discuss this again - that here in this House a "honorary committee" be set up, which can be a judgment quickly, much faster than courts can, on such immense, groundless accusations. I would also encourage - and we have already discussed this - that all the meetings of this House be broadcast directly on television from the first to the last minute. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I think that if you could see the behavior especially of the Freedom Party in its entirety live via TV, some Austrians really opened their eyes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11463	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are voting on the request of the honourable Member. Stadler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Application 119/A (E) concerning the abolition of non-vocational immunity for national councillors, a period of time of 15 years. ==References== I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request give a sign of approval. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11499	I shall now resume the negotiations on the report of the Committee on Immunities. Mr Helmut Peter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the debate back to the report of the Immunities Committee and close directly to the remarks of Dr. Haider, who has begun very self-critically, in order to look again very quickly for the guilt of the others and to end up in a usual liberal round-off against the rest of the world. However, I do not want to give my highest consideration to Mr Schreiner and to Mr Mentil. I think that in such a situation it is right, yes, for example. I am careful that two men, whom I personally cannot blame - which the courts and the investigation authorities will have to examine - have the courage and the attitude to resign and say: As long as this is not clarified, I do not want to enjoy immunity and to ask the authorities. - I consider this to be a good attitude, and this too should be held here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Freedom and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] The case of Rosenstingl is of course a case that goes far beyond a person. As an entrepreneur, I am responsible for my employees - partly into the criminal field. A senior official is equally responsible for his employees. He has to answer which staff he has chosen, whom he puts himself in his house, with whom he works. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, this has to be discussed today, it must be noted that the party leader of a party is responsible for those people he chooses in his environment. Therefore, he is responsible for their political conduct, for their personal lifestyle and ultimately for what they do with their client or outside their mandate. We politicians are "public" people, we are "glass" people, and the population has a right to know what we are doing. This is quite different for a private person who does not stand on the stage of politics. In politics, however, other standards must be set. The misbehaviour of people active in politics is a factor in the overall reputation of politics in Austria, and in this respect, the choice of persons has boosted the Freedom Party in the case of Rosenstingl's political insanity and ultimately provided a bear service to democracy and the state of Austria as a whole. So it has been reserved for the Freedom Party to cut aside in the selection of personnel in a way that is shocking and terrifying. A Member of Parliament turns out to be a suspected defraud. - No one knew anything. Or did everyone look away? What is the truth? I do not want to say that a party may have been co-financed. I therefore believe it is really necessary - even in the sense of the Freedom Party itself - for it to appear here in all openness and clarity once as a "glass" party, not only does it on television, but says: As the Liberals have already done in September 1997, we are acting in all our groups with a consolidated balance sheet to the public, and we are showing that we have not received money from these and those channels that may be dark! It is still to be asked: Why is Rosenstingl coming into FPÖ, into a protest movement that has grown quickly and with false criteria, in which criticism is confused with treachery, tolerance with weakness and reflection with reluctance? - For me, Mr. Klubobmann's deputy Stadler is, as it were, the banishment of this kind of policy. He believes that it is possible to make politics with arrogance, personal insult and contempt. Mr. Stadler! I am sorry that you are the only Member I really do not want to have anything to do with here all over the House. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But here I am glad! And this is based on reciprocity! See: Again a problem solved!]] For the way in which you make policies does not bring good, but only bad. If that is your goal in politics, I regret it! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't ask me if I wanted something to do with you!]] Well, I'm right about that. In addition to a serious star man and women and men working in the Freedom Party with whom a serious debate is worth a serious one - I am thinking, for example, of Mr Schreiner, who has always been a good counterpart of his professional competence - a new type of politician has also come to Parliament here, a type of politician, ladies and gentlemen, which has already been recognized at the time of the tonfall. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are you against political correctness?]] This unbearable volume is not reasonable. The inadequacy of fixation on enemy images is unbearable, and the choice of means in politics is to make policy in a way that I believe is very likely to be rejected by the other groups in this House. For hurting other people and making them contemptible is not a good policy, but just bad education! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Peter Rosenstingl was one of these politicians. The problem is that he's not alone. To the suspected defraudant comes a suspected data clause in Salzburg, also a suspected tax evasioner - I don't want to call all names, just: That's the subject on which the Freedom Party... - Well, if the prosecutor has put this case back and no longer pursues, that's done. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Helmut, please accept, be so fair, that the public prosecutor's office Salzburg has already put it back and not persecuted!]] I admit that. That's an information I didn't have. I therefore believe that it would be important for Austrian democracy and, above all, for this House, that the largest opposition party, which has a very important role in this game of forces in this House, should find a way back - perhaps Rosenstingl had to hold as an occasion - on which politics with all the sharpness of the contentious debate is possible again - but no policy in a tone and with a content as Stadler operates it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11607	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes, if I'm properly informed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11626	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the FPÖ has tried to turn the case of Rosenstingl into a case of justice, a case of administration, one case of all others, just not a case of the FPÖ. And the question arises whether this is the new form of political responsibility, which your Obmann Haider announced so generously yesterday. Although it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Rosenstingl was a top official of the FPÖ Club, a chief official of the Freedom-Economics Ring, a chief official of the FPÖ-Lower Austria. Your rosestingl won't take you away! He will stay on you "picking", ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has, unfortunately, disappeared! If we found him, we'd be glad anyway! I knew where to "pick" him!]] How did Jörg Haider keep up with Rosenstingl? - Yeah, yeah. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Let us also clarify the question when you last met him - that would interest me - and what you discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I saw him in Taiwan!]] In Taiwan? - This information might be helpful to justice. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And then he flew to Brazil!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I have already whispered this to Minister Michalek today!]] He flew over Taiwan to Brazil? You didn't announce that to the prosecutor's office? That would be interesting! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] So how did Jörg Haider keep up with Mr. Rosenstingl? - Rosenstingl has made his entire career in the era of Haider, which is undoubtedly fixed. As early as 1994, Partyobmann Haider was informed of the financial relationships of the FPÖ-Nederösterreich to be held by Rosenstingl. What did Haider do? - The transmitter of this bad news was delivered to the political knife, and the "power-holders" of the FPÖ-Nederösterreich - including Rosenstingl - were supported by Partyobmann Haider. In December 1997 the same game: An Amstettner FPÖ-functionary informed Landespartispoor Gratzer about the Causa Rosenstingl. What happened? - The same thing. The transmitter of the bad news was delivered to the political knife, the "mightmen" were again supported. The question therefore arises: What exclusive position did Rosenstingl have in the FPÖ that he was always protected by the "F" leadership while his political critics were put out? What did Mr Rosenstingl know about the FPÖ finances, what the public does not know today? What did Rosenstingl know about the house building of Bernhard Gratzer and a possible participation of the "F" housing cooperative? What did Rosenstingl know about the participation of Mentil and Schreiner in the FPÖ-NÖ-Company? And isn't the case of Rosenstingl just the beginning of placing a bubble of opaque braids between the FPÖ-Nederösterreich and the private companies of some FPÖ-functionaries? Or have parts of the 200 rosestingl millions also flown across any re- and error paths into any FPÖ cheese? These are the questions that interest the public and the House today, yes, to be interested! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Then you will agree to our request for an investigation committee!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is well known that there is not a long way to go within the FPÖ. Mr Haider! In Salzburg, for example, you didn't just deal with politically displeasing people. Even individual FPÖ functionaries are in the "profile" of 27. On April 4, it was said that a "real Henker party" would have been on its way in Salzburg. In November 1997, a Styrian local group dissolved with the reason that this was a protest against the "dictatorial, fanatical and unscrupulous conditions in the state and federal party". Such examples show that no long spring reading was made. Therefore, the question remains, which will continue to burn, as it were, as an open wound: Why has Rosenstingl experienced a special treatment by Partyobmann Haider within the FPÖ? Why was he so long - suffering toward him, unlike others? It is quite clear that the case of Rosenstingl leads the "Führer Party" to its limits. For if only one decides what is good and what is bad, if only one decides what is right and what is wrong, if only one decides who may be a functional and who does not, then cases like those of Rosenstingl are inevitable! And if you don't change anything, the case of Rosenstingl won't. Your last case. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this case it becomes clear that partyobmann Haider, while speaking on the one hand, talks about reference restrictions, on the other hand, that FPÖ functionals do private enrichment. And what will happen now? What has already happened? - The FPÖ has excluded Rosenstingl, some political sacrifices have already been sent to the desert. This has started with colleagues Schreiner and Mentil today, probably this evening the Lower Austrian FPÖ Party will follow Gratzer. Is this, Mr Haider, all those you called "moneyful" at the beginning of the year are now finally done, or were it even others you meant? And: How many bodies are still in the basement of the party that you yourself were so shocked at the beginning of this year? But one question remains, she remains "picking": Why did the self-proclaimed "Saubermann" Jörg Haider not order an internal investigation and did not inform the prosecutor? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true! You're uninformed as always!]] The answer is quite clear: His public demands do not apply to his own brothers in power! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why Christoph Kotanko has today formulated quite correctly in the "Kurier": "Another party leader would succeed, assume his overall responsibility and step back." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You'd like that!]] "On the other hand, he raises the question of confidence in the board of directors, which he can do without danger, but all depend on him there. The Jörg who doesn't trust anything. His voters will not be sold forever for stupid: If a call is so ruined, it doesn't live up to it!"
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11773	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11791	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Previously, a statement referring to the statements made by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Michalek. It is very interesting to question the period of time described about the painters in the beginning: why the non-activities of the judicial system and the competent authorities have come to pass. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you have to resign?]] Mr Pre-Responsor: Mr Kotanko will not choose the party chairman of the liberals, ladies and gentlemen. That's what the delegates will do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka's house of cards, which he has tried to build against the liberals today, has collapsed. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: It's getting bigger and bigger! That's a strong house!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They will not be able to present the RFW Lower Austria as a perpetrator! We're victims! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the Greens.]] That is why we have been the first to point out what the Federal Minister for Justice has today stressed in his presentation more than double. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have also failed to prove with your remote-controlled press that an employee of the Freedom-Economics ring was the carrier of the suitcases. It was an employee of an ÖGB company, and it will also be to be questioned what role ÖGB played in these money transactions. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And that's where you're gonna be laughing! But I also say, ladies and gentlemen: It is the question of how the banks - both the red and the black - were able to get to the bank switch and get a million, yes aber millions credit within 30 seconds, without these banks simply being sure of what is happening with the money. [[Abg. Parnigoni: So one thing is certain: you won't get any more loans!]] There is a question to be repeated in connection with the facts already highlighted: What about loans for normal citizens? - basic book extracts, multiple guarantees, life assurances, salary registers - in this case, Mr. National Council President Fischer has had a salary note, but the banks obviously not -, official confirmations, association statutes, taxes on property et cetera. All this has not happened! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The banks must be very careful whether they lend a blue one again!]] Mr Kostelka, together with his colleague, Mr Khol, tried to nail Haigermoser to the Andreas Cross with regard to the Inconsistency Committee. These poor findings by Mr Kostelka will become quite interesting at the next meeting of the Inconsistency Committee, where Mr Bartenstein, in connection with his acquisitions of companies known from the media, made his reports. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Everything just constructions!]] What happened to shops, ladies and gentlemen? It will also be interesting to have your ideas put on the table in the Inconsistency Committee, Mr Andreas Khol. You can hear from the socialist partners of your government coalition between door and Angel: What the beardstone is doing, we're going to light up! But when it goes to the meeting, silence reigns in the forest. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You have self-conceptions!]] So you have once again been caught up in your common deal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And we can also talk about Mr Hazelsteiner, who did not report to the Inconsistency Committee at all. - Am I the superintendent of this House, or might the President not be able to look at it on the right? Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy has so much dirt on it...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11920	Mr Haigermoser! For the expression "think on the stick", which I cannot accept in the sense of the previous tradition, I give a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e11938	I could now quote, Mr President, a famous Green Members from the Bundestag, but do not. To the Socialist International: They are so proud of the fact that You have leading functions there: Ritt Bjerregaard has dimed into a social apartment. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You're in there, you're helpers! Emanuelli is involved in criminal acts, Mr. González, with whom Mr. Klima was still photographed, is involved in murder suspicions, and Mr. Craxi has been your Du-Friend anyway, he is being sought today in Tunisia for a conviction. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What about the Le Pen, Mr. Haigermoser?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Anything else in this drawer?]] Maybe a quick look at the Chamber of Commerce: Mr Maderthaner is in Parliament for a relatively long time today - against his other habits. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] He was one of the most violent incarcerators when it came to throwing the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sad, Mr. Haigermoser!]] Mr Maderthaner! External Economic Organisation - Report of the 1994 Control Office. What, for example, is the word "Austroveda"? It means: This company - "Austroveda Budapest" - which was founded as a result of the acquisition of an office for the foreign trade office in Budapest and a residential building for the delegates and which is 100% owned by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. January 1993 on no proper accounting. [[Call to the liberals: Here look!]] Mr Maderthaner! I quote: In the opinion of the Supervisory Office, a competent accounting company should immediately be entrusted with the reorganisation of the accounts so that the Hungarian tax authorities can, by way of self-notification, be able to clarify the legality of the paid pre-tax. - Citation. That was 1993, and in the 1994 report, that is, a year later, the same topic is again the same as that - I quote - : It is necessary to reiterate the urgent need to reorganise the lack of accounting immediately. However, you have not been active, but you, Mr President of the Chamber of Commerce, on the 1997 Economic Chamber of Commerce, have refused to see this report with the remark that it is all confidential. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: All the distraction strategy you're doing! Rosenstingl was also a chamber officer! You put him there, Mr. Rosenstingl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You won't be able to dispute these scandals! I don't want to create a balance of terror here, so to speak, but: You should come at your own door, ladies and gentlemen, and question how and if at all Minister Schüssel, then Minister of Economic Affairs, has fulfilled his control function, as has the current Minister Farnleitner, former employee of the Chamber of Commerce, of his control function as supervisory authority over the Chamber of Commerce! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are plenty of moritants about your company, Mr. President Maderthaner, invoicing the Freedom Party, about your company conglomerate, where you have been awarding printing products to a company belonging to the Economic Association for decades, although this has been announced several times, Mr. Maderthaner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This moral image of how you deal with the money of the economic operators speaks for itself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Last but not least to you, Mrs Petrovic, who today, with Engelsungen, have preached the most honesty in politics: I think it is a shame to think that you have dealt with a Mr Fux, one of the founders of the Salzburg list of citizens. They have, according to newspaper reports, sent Mr Fux that he should not take an example to Mr Rosenstingl despite his departure from the party. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't bring any light into the dark swamp at all! It is treated the Causa Rosenstingl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To call Mr Fux in a breath with Mr Rosenstingl, with a man who is a suspected fraud, is blatant to a former companion of your population. I am not a lawyer of Mr Fux, but such a moral insaure, as you have presented it here today, is more than embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12081	Mr Vergestnitsch wanted to make an actual correction. As Mr Neisser has the right to make actual corrections at the end of the debate, I remain in favour of this arrangement. As the next speaker, Mr Krüger has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12126	Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I must confess quite plainly that, when I got to know the painters of Peter Rosenstingl - I was on that Monday in Stockholm and in this Capital of Culture I was really shocked by the new cultural institutions, such as the "Museet Moderna", which I saw. I say it quite openly, but you can, if you want, put it in a ridiculous state. I was deeply shocked that someone in our ranks could lead such a perfect double life. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What about the party fund: Did he pay or did he not pay?]] I met Peter Rosenstingl as a colleague, and I am not willing to say even today: I've learned to appreciate him as a colleague. I could hardly believe it, and it is personally depressing for me - but also for my family community and probably for others, especially for people from his private environment - to get knowledge of this one's double life. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Deploringly yes, but not new!]] I therefore asked myself the question: How can a person who appears to be prima vista serious come to commit such painting. Allow me to try to explain here my view of the things of the criminal case of Rosenstingl and the way in which he could arise, without any claim to Absoluteism of this version, because I simply cannot believe that in our ranks we are one of the first potential frauds. Just as the facts for me are present, Peter Rosenstingl has assumed liability for his brother in millions of heights, who have been beaten, and at one time he has faced a high demand and then, unfortunately, has begun to speculate like a player with foreign money - that is not to be beautify - and has speculated this money and has misused the trust of friends, clients, in the intention to save his own skin, and has damaged many honorable people of wealth. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What did he use the money as a national observer for?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is already in the line of defense!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Plaedoyer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand your unrest. Believe me, I see this sober. I'm disappointed myself, please let me tell you. But something else I have to say to you: I still have very well the words of the First President of the National Council Fischer, whom he spoke on the occasion of the commemoration of the liberation of the Mauthausen concentration camp. I don't want to draw parallels at all. This is the most terrible genocide that has ever happened. But I still have in mind the words of President Dr. Fischer, who spoke of the "single biography" of every Austrian, every Austrian in the time of that time. This version of the single biography, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing else - Mr President Fischer, I think I quote you correctly - as a recognition of the so-called individual debt. Individual biography means individual responsibility. The Causa Rosenstingl is an individual responsibility, a criminal case, but not a political case. [[A major contradiction with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will prove to you that there is no political connection, and if you still have a restate confidence in justice, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, a residual confidence in a justice that is ultimately led or co-formed by a minister of your election, then you will give me the right. Ladies and gentlemen! There was an anonymous advertisement on how to take account of the statements made by the Federal Minister, ads last year, in 1997, the Erste Bank AG and a so-called Anonymous. In 1997! There were more ads in 1998, and there are still today - look at the federal constitution!Use custom fonts; Mr Bundesminister, you will be right to give me - no request for the extradition of Mr Rosenstingl. There is an application for arrest, which is the case of extra-professional immunity. Any Member, whether he has done a painting here or elsewhere, out of work or professionally, must not be arrested without the consent of the National Council. But there is no request for extradition. This is only possible, Minister of State, if the court if the security authorities do not see any connection with political activity. So for me, this is proof that there is no link to political activity to this day, because otherwise the request for extradition would undoubtedly have been made. [[Abg. Wabl: The Stadler has submitted the application!]] Mr. Constitutional Lawyer Professor Khol will give me the right in this interpretation, but I will tell you one thing: I fully understand that you are trying to construct a political context. But I say again: If you trust independent justice, you will be right to say that, according to our current state of knowledge, there is no political link as always exists, precisely because no request for extradition has been made to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The case of Rosenstingl is a criminal case. The question arises as to how to deal with it from the political side and from the club colleagues. I believe that all the measures that have been taken have been taken. It was immediately returned to the public prosecutor from its own ranks, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive statement of the facts of the Free Trade Association. There have also been provisional political consequences, although there is no political context until today, and these political consequences have been drawn in an exemplary way, which Mr Peter has admitted here. That's the difference! Mr Cap said today, in a few days or in a few weeks we will say: Rosenstingl, who was that? No, Mr Cap! We won't say that. We'll say: He was a colleague of ours, and we had a hard time fooling him, unfortunately he probably did - with all the presumption of innocence! - a criminal energy! We have known him, but we disapprove of his course, we distance ourselves from it, we find it unfortunate, we also suffer the necessary consequences! I have come here at the crucial point, namely, in the differentiability of the freedom of expression of your so-called movement - you call social democracy also movement -: While consequences are being drawn from us, it has been with you ministers who at the time had to resign in connection with the Proksch affair and the Noricum scandal, where Roman intelligence services provided proof of discharge for the discharge of potential murderers. These ministers today enjoy a special status of honour: They are honorary members and sit in the first row at your congregations. [[Abg. Gaál: This is a lie! There is no judicial condemnation!]] That's the difference that exists!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12272	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have undertaken to complete a decision and a protocol during the course of the working hours. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12293	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have indeed insisted not to make any actual correction here, but to make a very normal contribution to the debate, because I do not want to go into any actual correction in any way, because I do not see any reason for justification towards the FPÖ, but I really want to make it clear to the previous speakers that: The necessary consequences would have to be removed from FPÖ! What has been done twice today by Mr Haigermoser is blatant. After all, he "gave up" an employee, has linked him to a criminal case without providing evidence that such a connection exists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Under the terms of the foreign exchange: "Stop the thief!" You accuse an employee of a shipping company that he is involved in their painting. We're not going with that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1995 the company Printex has had a shipping contract with the Free Trade Association of Lower Austria. The customer manager of this shipping contract is Mr. Delegater. He was asked to bring suitcases from A to B by an employee who is now no longer in the country. He has done so, and after it has become known that it is criminal, the police have been informed about this process. Mr Delegater has also explained this to the economic police. Mr. Haigermoser! If you follow your theory, you can also blame yourself for being associated with criminal acts, because it could have been possible in your retail business in Salzburg that you sold something sometime to a criminally established person. What you did here, namely that you carried an employee into the role of a criminal, is bad.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12336	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12351	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thought that today the Freedom Party will understand that the world does not consist of black and white, that today the Freedom Party may begin to differentiate a bit, just as Mr Haigermoser has done in the approach, which otherwise always recognizes foreigners immediately, who otherwise recognizes Gauner immediately on the face, but at the Rostingl he has realized that you do not see Gauners. I have thought that Mr Haider and Mr Stadler will describe today the grievances of daily life, your party, your own party, with its authoritarian structures, which are obviously unable to exercise control. But what happened, ladies and gentlemen? - All the representatives of the FPÖ went here to the speaker's desk and overturned the whole Republic, all the other parties of this House in a way I did not think possible: The President of the House was defamed as a fellow culprit. It has been said that foreign politicians are indirectly related or known to Mr Rosenstingl and have granted him shelter. - The impression is that Mr Marizzi has made Mr Rosenstingl ill with contaminated blood plasma, and Mr Fischer is flattering, and poor FPÖ was the victim. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens, with SPÖ and ÖVP and with the Liberal Forum.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The coronation for the liberals who have obviously learned to differentiate today, who otherwise, if a suspected person appears to be an irregularity, are immediately with the wood hammer, who immediately see fraud, corruption, the decline of the Republic, exploiters, exploiters, lice and the like, is that sudden a change of concept takes place in the FPÖ. A new term is introduced for fraud, for counterfeiting, for exchange fraud and for fraud. The term that sounds so modest is Malversation. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] But it concerns a liberal, and that is why one chooses this word carefully; one has understood that Rosenstingl cannot be referred to as a Gauner, because in this Republic, Mr Stadler, the rule of law is stated. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I did!]] Yes, in Austria, the rule of law is stated: The presumption of innocence also applies to Mr Rosenstingl. But what you're showing here by so modestly presenting the word Malversation, so lovingly to this High House, is incredible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can translate it if you want!]] One has almost the feeling that this is a small cuddly animal, delicate, a little hairy, blue colored, which smears into party funds, which has widened in the FPÖ in a cuddly housing company, the "Holiday Home", which obviously also surrounds the economic operators under the tables and does not know exactly where it is at home. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] [[new warmth with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] [[new warmth with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] [[New warmth with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the Liberal Forum.]] It was wrong with the FPÖ, the little animal. You might almost think that you took a bond with the Japanese and invented a new little toy tamagotchi. [[New warmth with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the Liberal Forum.]] The small Tamagotchi of the FPÖ was invented: the painting in its own series. [[New warmth with the Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the suspicion that the FPÖ is a painting, and it should change it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12457	No one is reported in the word anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I have spoken!]] I apologize. I would ask you to put the word messages in the computer earlier. Mr Khol has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want this debate to end with comparisons with the toy of Tamagotchi or with names like Malversation-Tijen, the matter is too serious. Today we have experienced the first act of processing the "F" system. The last act will hopefully take place if Peter Rosenstingl has to justify himself before Austrian criminal courts. It is about a system "F" in which a party with dark men pretends to be the party of the Saubermen to be a system that has developed over the years: Tax evasions in Graz, black money transferors in Tyrol, mandate buyers and mandate sellers, data clarifiers, even though the prosecutor does not establish serious fraud, i.e. a system which is very clearly reflected in the linkage of the case of Mr Rosenstingl in all his functions and all his economic and political activities. [[Abg. Böhacker: What is now: Does the prosecutor find out or not?]] [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk with a graphic representation and the title: "Firmenimperium and Functions of Rosenstingl".]] We have seen today that there are a number of illustrious, unclear situations. My colleague Maria Theresia Fekter has brilliantly turned out the FPÖ Social Fund: Either he's a skim, or he's fed with stolen money. - Just justify yourself, gentlemen. There are no offers to withdraw! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's pretty incredible!]] There are also unclear situations in the club finances. If the club casserer defrauds 200 million schillings and departs abroad, one must be pleased that one is very prominently noted in this system. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are basically a pretty ugly figure!]] However, there are unclear situations also with the party finances in Lower Austria, and I am simply outraged by Mr Haigermoser, who had the forehead, as President of the Freedom-Economics Ring, and at the same time as Chairman of the Inconsistency Committee, to come out here and to patch around with the dirt slumber, and who himself does not justify. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (a document holding to the height) That's not a "slaughter of dirt", that's a document!]] Then: If I were president of a party's sub-organisation, I would look at my alternate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the system "FPÖ" is also characterized by an authoritarian structure, throughout Austria. This ranges from the disputes in Vorarlberg to the resignation of a Innsbruck City Council, from the "Seidene Schnur" in Salzburg and the still pending depowering of the head of state in charge in Carinthia to the decommissioning of the Lower Austrian officials. The Member of Parliament, Haider, who is the head of this party, has, or would have, all the means to establish order in that party. He does not need to wait for the judges, he does not need information from the presidential conference, he has and has all possibilities, but he has not used them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today I have again become clear to some well-known folk wisdoms. The first is: Hold the thief! This was the first strategy of the Freeman: Let's talk about something else! We are the first to get the Peter Rosenstingl out of his empire. - I can't believe it. Really very unbelievable! The second folk wisdom: The little ones are hanging, the big ones are running! - The little ones are hanging. These are Mr Mentil and Mr Schreiner, who have temporarily relinquished their functions today. The next folk wisdom, ladies and gentlemen, is: The fish smells of the head! - And the head here is Haider and Stadler. These are the two responsible in this party, these are the two who have the right to stand for this system, these are the two who are responsible for the "System F". [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another folk wisdom: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! - That's what you've done all afternoon. Then you talked about the "glass party". Their "glass party" has already broken into 700 pieces in Salzburg. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:And have been flogged together again!]] The next folk wisdom is from the Bible. It's about the splitters in the eye of the others and the beams in your own eye. - I don't want to use the expression I have in my head - I haven't experienced such a thing from impertinent yet! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Shameless!]] In addition, I would like to say something: In his book "The Freedom I Mean" the author of this book writes: "Not the privileged cavalry and corruptions are excluded, but the detectors are branded as traitors as soon as they no longer play. The faithful partygoers and the critics are rewarded." - That's the way it is! I am thinking, for example, of the liberal functionary Haltmeyer, who expressly gave my friend Kurzbauer the authorisation to mention here the conversation that I will now report. He was elected to the Bureau of the Freedom of State between 1992 and 1994 in Lower Austria, at the special request of Mr Haider. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Haider has left! That's not what he's listening to!]] At that time one had lived less on loans, but due dates were not fulfilled on time, credits were received. Haltmeyer wanted to make order, because there was no budget, no cost bill, no controlling. Crossed against a transparent gesture has become Mag. Schreiner, and then Rosenstingl wasn't done that much. At the same time, the "Holiday Home" was founded, which was to build the party house. This was a point that he did not like, as Mr Haider said, because he thought that such financing was always condemned by Mr Haider. Now the "F" should be even more refined: Company structures were chosen, joints were carried out, and funds were pushed back and forth. To this end, Haltmeyer: This was unmistakable for me. This is why Haltmeyer called for a state board meeting. Then new elections of the national presidium came. Haltmeyer said: I went to Jörg Haider two weeks before the election and told him that under these circumstances I would no longer be candidates if I did not make a table. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Jörg Haider was informed at this time - i.e. in 1994 - of all these incidents. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Aha!]] Haider cannot therefore say that he knew nothing about this situation and about the housing company. That's what he noticed on the radio today, but that's wrong. That is why I must say: That's it! Not the corrupts and the privileged ones are excluded, but Haltmeyer, the discoverer, was branded as traitors as soon as he stopped playing. Ladies and gentlemen! The system "F" is on the test stand. Today was the first act. Further files will follow. The Rosenstingl process will hopefully be the final act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12655	I give Mr Khol a call for an order for the use of the term "smoker". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What? Dirty sluts? Did I say "smoker"?]] I call Mr Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e12685	Mr President. High house! What Mr Khol has just done was try to save something from Mr Steindl's unsuccessful speech with his papers and tables he had prepared. This speech by Mr Steindl was made up of people, and therefore Khol has tried to make the most of his secretary's work. [[Abg. Grabner: These were facts! Talk about Salzburg!]] Mr Khol, I would like to tell you something: We will talk about the cleanliness of Members, especially your cleanliness. I won't let myself out about your character! I have come to know this one when it comes to the decision-making of the Rules of Procedure. At that time, this man gave me his honour to make a fair rule of procedure with us and not to decide against our intentions. The honour of this honourable gentleman is not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a "F" diffamation!]] We will talk about his cleanliness as head of the political academy of the ÖVP, where he was a million abcasser and left behind an incredible financial disaster, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Diffamation!]] There is no party academy of this republic, which has left such desastrous finances as the party academy of the Austrian People's Party under the direction of Andreas Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Diffamation!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Diffamation!]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. We will talk about these, and we will talk about them in detail. Because if the "Lord of Delight" goes out and brings Bible quotations to cover his own inadequacy in order to fathom his character deficit, we know that we have to deal with a "Casiner". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "Casiner" is called in Vorarlberg Members of the Austrian People’s Party who preach water and drink wine in masses. And such a one, ladies and gentlemen, is Mr. Andreas Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They were disposed of to Lower Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party is grateful for being allowed to sit in a coalition in order to have a little snack with the meat pots of Egypt. One of the most prominent of these is Mr Khol, who would like to be a loving Foreign Minister. That's his career goal, but he hasn't reached it so far. For this, some federal observers have been in his way, which is why they have served them. - So much about Mr. Andreas Khol's personnel policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you notice how ridiculous you are?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a sluggish seat to be ÖVP-Bundes Partyobmann. It is only a matter of time until the Lord comes with the masherl. The successor's already sitting there. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you notice how ridiculous you are?]] He can't be so old that he doesn't want to be an ÖVP-Bundesobmann, ladies and gentlemen. For years, one of the superinstructors, as one of the ÖVP’s top instructors in the ÖVP, has doubted how each of the ÖVPs is supposed to lead a party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Khol! Allen Ernstes: Take care of your lot! We'll take care of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But fast! But really fast!]] But we're successful while you're on your way from one year to the other with your party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look at what you've done in Carinthia!: Coping with the political sect You there, if you continue as Andreas Khol recommends. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You fear that Rosenstingl will come back and unwind about what really happened!]] Now to the party finances of the Greens. When I read the magazine "NEWS", I notice that the Greens are pleading. But here they stand out in the person of colleague Wabl and play the Krösusse, the financial artists, and think you've got everything right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You don't even know how to finance your party. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: All right!]] That's your problem! Make it like us, clean it up! [[Lively ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Like the Rosenstingl!]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will not do you the favor, we will not do you the pleasure of working with your head and with your way of financing parties, ladies and gentlemen of your own interest. The party finances of the Greens still have a number of control deficits. Believe me! If one can only give some faith to the reports that are currently being read in the various Boulevard newspapers against the background of the internal conflict, Mr Van der Bellen, then you have committed a serious legacy. Take care of the finances of your party! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Now the Van der Bellen is still in debt at the Rosenstingl!]] This applies equally to the Liberal Forum - I do not want to talk about the Red, which is moving their money to 33 million heights - because the Liberal Forum depends on success and ruin on Mr. Hazelsteiner's credit, which makes good constructions. That's nothing new either. That is why we have problems with inconsistency with Mr Haselsteiner, which is why he regularly lacks the votes, because he earns his money when he is not present in the House, not being present. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With the Rosenstingl we also have problems!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Live calls.]] That's the background! We need to talk about these things! That is why, Mrs Petrovic, I am already giving you our support for a request to set up an investigation committee. For we want to control all these things at last - also party finances, including the club finances of all political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The "F" too!]] I would be interested to see how the party finances of the ÖVP look after the disaster left by Mr Klubobmann in the Political Academy. His club finances will not look any better. The main thing is, everyone has filled their pockets! We'd like to talk about it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is crazy, as you argue!]] He was a million-dollar artist in the cash collection. Finishings are his favorite horse. The higher, the better. So is Mr Andreas Khol, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you remember how weak your defense strategy is?]] Finally, we want to have control of this. That is why we are in favour of setting up such a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr Maitz: You just need to see your group, then you have everything you need!]] Federal Minister for Justice! Your ministry's failure will also be to talk about. Since 1997 to have first suspicions in a financial criminal proceedings... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] Excuse me, you have reported that the law enforcement authorities have been dealing with the case of Rosenstingl since 1997, so you would have a number of documents from 1997. That's what you reported here, Minister. Look, I'd like to tell you something: Yesterday I was still skeptical of whether it makes sense to involve for the first time a minister in an immunity matter, which is always a matter between the law enforcement authority and Parliament. Today I am grateful, Minister, that you have acted here. This was a classic shot in their own knees for the government parties. For what you have told us here is the failure of the law enforcement authorities, and I would be glad if we could clarify this in a committee of inquiry, namely: What did the law enforcement authorities know? What did the financial criminal authorities know? What did the economic police know? What did the EDOK know? Above all: Since when did you know about things? What did the President know? Since when did he know things? - We will talk about all of this in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What is your defense strategy for the Rosenstingl? You don't have one!]] Although we can also control the party finances of the ÖVP and those painterries, Mr Wabl, which Mr Kostelka has set up in his party, we will not only achieve that our party has "glass" party finances, but then perhaps we will once again be able to bring some clarity into your sad financial work in order to finally put your party finances in order. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't have a defense strategy!]] Maybe then you'll do what the Law They require them to deal with taxpayers'money in such a way as to limit the legal framework conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Like the Rosenstingl!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13054	Mrs Petrovic. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I have been informed of a five-minute voluntary time limit. Is that right? - Okay.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13072	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If the whole matter were not really so serious and tragic, I could only bring the events of this afternoon back to the fact that it is full moon. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is true that, probably not only our club, but also our full moon here in the High House and in other public places, always add the addresses, in which people suddenly express the suspicion that they would be persecuted by CIA and KGB at the same time or changed by any cosmic rays. Even if I recall, in particular, the speeches made by Mr Stadler and also his appearance at the last meetings of the Presidential and Immunities Committee on Revue, I conclude: It must have something to do with the full moon! I have not even estimated the FPÖ in this way as it presents itself here and today. It's really hard to believe! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] My club colleague Andreas Wabl called it: Building frauds, frauds, misappropriation, private housing companies, private houses of the party president and the party headquarters. - All these things are extremely obvious, and above all there are some circumstances that make it absolutely impossible for the party president to know nothing about them. Even if it were so that some of these little ones - under quotation marks - might have missed the estimated attention of the party presidium, there are some things among which it is impossible for the Bureau to know nothing about it in a party. When party headquarters are built, and that of party-related companies, which also address public funding at the same time, it is impossible for the party president and the party president to know nothing about it. But you have not said one word in this long debate. Instead of that it was again in the last speeches - and this makes the debate with you so difficult, even if one admits that not everything is black and white and that it is possible for even party bodies to be led behind the light... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's difficult with you because you don't deal with what is said by us!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé! If you find this to be correct and correct, that in a breath now again in relation to government politicians of Karrier, of someone being served soon, and of Oberinrigant being the talk of, I wonder why. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a fact-finding!]] You don't seem to notice that anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't go into what we say!]] They no longer differ from those full moon keys in the division, which confuse reality with any dream formations. They actually seem to have lost any differentiation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then go into what we say!]] This also proves the long downfalls and the waiting to see how one can create the defense and how one can cause as big a media rumour as possible, so that it is actually so that some of these actions were informed of the party's presidium, for - I repeat - it is impossible to imagine that the party's presidium of a party did not know anything about it. Even if you come to my colleague Mr Rosenstingl, I am missing that you are talking about political responsibility, as you have argued with members of the government; partly not wrong, because I think we have a deficit in Austria as far as the exercise of political responsibility is concerned. On the part of the government parties, too, criminal responsibility has often been confused with political responsibility. But the way you exaggerate it today, that the word "political responsibility" apparently no longer exists, is already really unique! If you now describe Mr Rosenstingl - or soon ex-co-workers of this House - as the lovable and kind and say that you have fallen out of all the clouds when they have heard all about him, I ask you whether not only the existence of these companies, but only the question of what they are doing, whether they are getting public funds, is already a matter of political responsibility. The impression arises that this "malversation" - under quotation marks - would have surprised you completely. They also describe Rosenstingl in this context as if it were a phenomenon like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. It seems to be a phenomenon of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13164	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Second word. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13183	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke again because Mr Mag. Stadler has overshadowed everything so far. We have all expected that in this debate the Members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party will be showing a little bit of concern, showing the most normal human reaction and trying to explain, present and also offer the transparency required in such a context. The only thing I can do. Mr Stadler has done that is because he insulted Mr Khol in the most abusive way, the Greens and the Liberals alike. Mr Stadler, you have shown for yourself, but also for the rest of your group, whose spirit you are children. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I say quite frankly to you: I am opposed by this attitude of yours and by that of yours, which is not very far from what Mr Rosenstingl has done. You have the responsibility to bear it! But with the way you are trying to push this aside - I tell you quite clearly - you confirm with every fiber, with every second that our accusations are correct. This is the biotope, in which Rosenstingl could thrive, yes, prosper! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's the swamp in which this biotope came into existence. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What the swamp with Marizzi is with you!]] Their speech was nothing more than the blubbering of the swamp gas. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not an order call?]] In this context, I would like to say again with all urgency: In the long debate that you had 50 minutes of time, you have remained guilty of any justification and have in no way demarcated yourself in any way from what is being accused here of Rosenstingl: that is, not fair handling. - The full moon has nothing to do with this, ladies and gentlemen. This is human contempt and disdain for democracy! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I accept that you are sitting in here because you have chosen the voters. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What deeply pleases me as democrats is that I am convinced that the voters will know exactly how you deal with him, with the mandates and votes, in a cynical, aggressive and in a way that does not take the truth seriously. Responsible for what has been discussed in this context! You owe it to our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13262	There is also a second speech by Mr Dr. Haider. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13277	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that the outcome of the debate for you today is not the one you have expected. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You have expected today, so to speak, to be able to pour your dirt cubes over the FPÖ and we're cracking it and saying: I'm sorry, it just happened! [[Call the SPÖ: You are a dreamer!]] - You've had the opportunity to have a fair discussion with us. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] However, if Mrs Petrovic goes to the speaker's desk and says that everyone who is not of their opinion and makes a different argument, as with the full moon, is a little disturbed, it is precisely the way of thinking of those authoritarian politicians all over the world who declare everyone ill who is not their opinion. That's your thinking, Mrs Petrovic! That's your attitude! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you had listened, you would know that it was Mr Schreiner who said today: I shall make my mandate available until all the accusations are cleared! - Because he has suffered the consequences in the housing business. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't listen!]] That's what you've criticized. But he has already drawn the consequences. [[Abg. Fox: Where is your consequence?]] This is also the case with Mr Hermann Mentil. What we do not spare you is that the Morala Apostle Kostelka cannot do here, as if everything were all right with him. Dear friend! You have an attorney's examination at the neck. If you are politically somewhat moral, then pull the consequences and make your mandate available until things are clarified! You do not even trust to publish the name of the economic fidelity owner who wrote your report. The SPÖ press service publishes that there is an opinion, drawn by Stefan Pöttler, press spokesman of the SPÖ club. This is not an economic fidelity! Tell us: Who is this ominous economic fidelity who gives you the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13351	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13366	... Persil license issued? Last, ladies and gentlemen: To expect us from a party like that represented by Mr. Khol, who says tax-free, in our party funds there is stolen money, but which represents a party itself, in which people who have damaged thousands in the WEB scandal still have to resign in here today's parliamentarians... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13394	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time is over. [[Congratulations on the liberals for the Vice-President, Dr. Haider, who has left the speaker's seat.]] The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Second word. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13421	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider! Since you have claimed here that you, the other political groups, had given us the opportunity, in a long debate, to address your arguments, but even most of the time you were not present at this debate, I repeat what I also addressed to your address. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's a schmarr'n!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You weren't there!]] Mr Haider! The system FPÖ, the method with which you make politics, of course lives only through you as the leader of this party. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That is why, Mr Haider, it is not just a question of your personal cowardice that you have no political consequences - because you are responsible for this system of FPÖ, which consists not only of Mr Rosenstingl but also of dozens of other cases - but of course it is also the cowardice of your many co-responsibles who know that the resignation of this party leader did not cause the whole party to fall into vain. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That is why the system of artists and satraps lives only if the leader of the party at the same time as before continues with this party. That is the problem with this FPÖ and this situation, Mr Haider. [[Call the Freeman: You will lose the next elections again!]] A question could have been answered by you or any of your Members, a question I have asked: What about this dispute between Mr Gratzer, your Lower Austrian state party, and the banker who was also a member of your party? Who lied about the two, the banker who claimed that he did not mention any name or Mr Gratzer, who said he called the name, the first name or the last name? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why should we know that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bullshit!]] If Mr Gratzer is right, Mr Haider, Mr Gratzer should have been the first to bring in the presentation of matters, because of course this banker has violated banking secrecy. - But he didn't. In this small key-hole situation, Mr Haider, the system, as in your party's policy, is clearly enough to study what methods are being used.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13519	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We now come to the actual corrections. First of all, Mr Dr. Khol is given the floor for an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13543	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting Mr Stadler, who carried out that I had handed over the Political Academy, when I handed it over in 1992, with a disastrous deficit. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tell the Court of Auditors!]] It is true that I handed over the Academy in 1992 with a balance sheet surplus of 1.5 million Schilling and that the Court of Auditors examined my conduct and did not object, while at that time, at the Academy of Liberals, Members had to repay amounts for the use of service weights. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Does the Court of Auditors say something wrong?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: 10 million are missing there!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: 10 million have disappeared!]] Secondly, I would have given my honour to Mr Stadler in the negotiations on the reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the Haider!]] That's not right, because I'm just giving my honor to fellows.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13635	Mr Stadler has also been given the floor for an actual correction. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13653	Mr President. Can I first of all reply personally to Mr Khol's actual correction? [[Call ÖVP and SPÖ:No!]] It's a personal matter. He said he'd never given me a word of honor. I would like to answer that personally. Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're excited!]] I note that you did not give me an honor. You can't give me one, either, because there's only one of these men of honor. But at least you gave me soup, and it was good, because it was your wife's, it was better than what you promised me. Ladies and gentlemen! But now to the actual correction: Mr Vergestnich rejected the claim made by Mr Haigermoser that an employee of an ÖGB company had submitted a suitcase to the company Omikron and was therefore involved in the case. I'm actually correcting: This employee, a certain deducer, is not only involved in this case as a transferor of the suitcase, but he is also the dwelling owner of that apartment, the friend of the friend - it goes on even further! - Mr Rosenstingl, Mrs Cornelia Gretsch, who has been buried with him. [[Inter-call]] He is also the man who has for many years built intense business contacts, of which the ÖGB may not have known anything, to Rosenstingl about Gretsch. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ableiter, employee of an ÖGB subsidiary company, is in this scandal right up to the neck.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13715	Ladies and gentlemen! There are no further statements of words, as has already been said. The debate has already been closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] The actual corrections were also negotiated. - I'm asking you to calm down. I still announce the following: Four insulting expressions have been made, each of which has been called for. I gave two calls for orders in the morning and asked for the corresponding terminology. I refuse to give the line of calls for order now, knowing that they are completely ignored. I shall bring this problem to the attention of the clubmen once again. I am not prepared to play. That doesn't make any sense at all. I would like to point this out. By the way, the matter has been settled by common accord with Mr Ofner. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1183 of the Supplements to decide on the following: ==References== The adoption of a warrant against the deputies to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl for the reason of the procedure" - and here follows the number of cases - "criminal acts and the conduct of these house searches in question in accordance with Art. 57 para. 2 B-VG approved. 2. The sanctions imposed on the Member to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl are related to the political activity of the Member concerned. 3rd. The official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl on the persecution of the criminal offences committed to him in proceedings 22c vr 1208/97 is in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG agreed." This is the request of the Immunities Committee, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. - I note that this request was adopted unanimously. The agenda of this meeting is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13777	We come to the debate on Mr Petrovic's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry on the persecutions initiated by various authorities and institutions following the emergence of suspicions of economic criminal behaviour. The application for the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry has now been distributed and needs no reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13845	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be 5 minutes each, the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13878	Mr President. High house! I think the very one-sided debate this afternoon makes it necessary to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify perfectly the conduct of the executive authorities. I am firmly convinced that, especially for the Minister of Justice, probably for the Minister of the Interior and not least for the President of the House, a committee of inquiry of this kind would be highly necessary and desirable. I am also not annoyed by the fact that, in my opinion, the government parties will not vote in favour of such an investigation committee in the light of the facts and facts and that, of course, the Freedom Party, in the knowledge of the expected voting behaviour of the government parties, is very easy to accept this request. I think that it is therefore necessary to set up an investigation committee on the whole range of allegations, because only in this way - with a commitment of truth. - it can be explained whether there were indeed delays, omissions of the courts or the executive, whether there may have been a lack of cooperation on the part of the Freedom Party in clarifying these circumstances, whether or not public officials - and these are not very few in the ranks of the Freedom Party - have failed to comply with the obligation of § 84 of the Criminal Procedure. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In fact, it seems to some in the House that there is, of course, an increased duty of care for some. This is a principle that goes through all our criminal law. Just as it is a matter of course in the case of accidents and accidents that those who have inadvertently caused such an accident have an increased obligation to provide assistance, an increased obligation to do everything to avoid further damage, it is also certain that those who are in a party organization with a suspected criminal person have an increased degree of care and even have to follow the quietest rumors and suspicions in order to eliminate them. The fact that the media reports have been given - I am not aware of any opposition, of no seizure or of anything else in this direction - is that I do not believe that these duties of care have been fully complied with in the specific case, or at least have not been fully complied with. I believe that this principle of inconsistency, this increased duty of care of those who are in an organisation with a suspect, can only be clarified in a committee of inquiry, in which it is political - and not primarily criminal - responsibilities. However, I also believe that only one committee of inquiry offers the opportunity to come up with political structures which, at least in the future, make it very difficult for such incidents to repeat. It must be held very clearly in all this fog-throwing, in these immense suspicions towards the murder of coalition members and toward incredible crimes of one: that the structures were probably so suitable in no other party and are that there are such "red flowers" as in the specific case. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rosenstingl is his name!]] Mr Stadler! You too, with your undifferentiated accusations against other parties, are, in the end, advocating the fact that what you have always criticized is taking someone who does not even resign, but temporarily leaves his mandate; then a method of examination is chosen that does not know what degree of objectivity it has - at least it is not the Court of Auditors and not the Economic Police - and you are doing so in such a way that you are constantly trying not to listen, turn around the spear and represent the FPÖ as a martyr's party. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not supposed to be it!]] As I said, I regret that the coalition parties make it so easy for you to agree to this request: You can do this because you know that the coalition parties do not agree. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I hope they will vote!]] It would probably be a necessary procedure for us to finally come to what the Causa Rosenstingl and other incidents - the Causa Meischberger and similar events - would have made impossible, namely - I repeat it - glass party funds, disclosure of all the income and wealth relationships of mandaters, a complete separation in the housing sector between joint use and commercial activity and, in the future, an increased legal formulation in the field of incompatibility. Mr Stadler! Your request - the FPÖ's request for extra-parliamentary immunity - has nothing to do with the Causa Rosenstingl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes! Last paragraph, extradition!]] It also contradicts your current voting behaviour, in which you have once again held the political context, and is therefore also to be classified in the category "Nebelwerei". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to another point of the request for the establishment of an investigation committee - that is to say, we should be guided by Germany's example - that the overall level of club financing and the granting of public funds to parties in the future should be such that minimum democratic standards are respected. It should therefore not be possible, for example, that representatives of the people in Bausch and Bogen, in large numbers, may be disfellowshipped and re-established by the chairman of a party - and so on. In my opinion, this contradicts the essence of club and party financing, it deeply contradicts the nature of the free mandate, and it is precisely these undemocratic, authoritarian elements that, in my opinion, have made this scandal possible - perhaps also in individual cases, delays or omissions by the investigative authorities. A very last one is against the FPÖ as a whole: I believe that it was probably not acceptable for the investigation authorities in the specific case that the allegations that were first made by individual FPÖ officials could be in line with the truth. Because the way you act and always seek injustice only with the others certainly also has an impact on the investigation authorities. In so far as it is necessary to say this, you have made a very likely contribution to the fact that the investigations could not be carried out with the required haste and not with the required stringency.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13963	The following debates will be subject to a time limit of 5 minutes each. Mrs. Dr. Mertel, you are the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e13981	Mr President. High house! At first glance, it would be very tempting to intervene in the setting up of an investigation committee, as the Greens imagine it, and to review the way in which justice - in particular the delays - takes place. Of course, it would also be tempting to deal with the know-how and child-moving of the FPÖ - the party of small people - as well as with the morality of this party. Mrs Petrovic! If you think that perhaps lunar phases are to blame for the behaviour of Mr Stadler, or that this may be dual or personality division, I would like to tell you that this is not the case. The words that come forth out of his mouth, which cry out before hatred, and hate, and that he is so pleased to speak of hatred, which shows all things: He's the incarnation of hate. It is nothing else that he behaves like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Should I go in on it? – "Madame Zuckerbrot" I can't take seriously!]] They have heard that the Member has said to Krüger that an application for arrest and house search was submitted to the Committee on Immunities by the Court, but that the request for extradition is missing. Then I have to correct him: We also have a number of points on the proposal yesterday. 57 para. 3 decided. After that, all actions which have been committed by a Member of Parliament to a certain, defined offence can be pursued. That is to say, immunity has been lifted and there is a clear link between Peter Rosenstingl's criminal activities and his political activity. After this item on the agenda, the Official Protocol will be read, the extradition will enter into force, and the International Arrest Warrant may be issued. Certain persecutions for the Enlightenment, for the brightening of the Causa Peter Rosenstingl, can also be initiated. We therefore believe that the courts should work, that the judicial system should work, and that we should not hinder the activities of the judicial system by setting up an investigation committee. [[Abg. Wabl: Now comes again this argument! Please don't!]] If there is still a question of political responsibility afterwards, we will also be in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry. The SPÖ will therefore not agree to the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14060	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Schwimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14075	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is the preferred child of the Rules of Procedure for the Greens. We are faced with such requests here more often. I understand this after some time of belonging to this House, after which I am no longer a parliamentarian. The request is a good instrument of opposition, and one is even very happy if it is not accepted by the majority. Then you can put the following: Something has to be done, and they want to cover it up - whether the request was justified or not. I understand this in the usual procedure, but your current proposal, Dr Petrovic and Mr Wabl, has really only triggered headaches. The Freedom Party has a serious political and moral problem. The free movement strategy has become absolutely clear today. This includes a complete differentiation by Mr Stadler, as it is no longer to be surpassed. [[Abg. Aumayr: And of the Lord Khol!]] Look at Mr. Stadler on the video again: If you haven't gotten bad before, you may get bad looking at it again if you see your own executive clubman in the all-round diffamation he's made here! [[Abg. Aumayr: This is really huge!]] But in addition to this all-round differentiation, we have already heard this, the accusation is that all the others are to blame: The courts are to blame, the police are to blame, the banks are to blame - only the FPÖ that has chosen and set up Mr Rosenstingl as a Member of Parliament, the FPÖ, Mr Rosenstingl as Chairman of the Ring [[Abg. Aumayr: Such a mess!]] Freedom-loving economic operator in Lower Austria has made it possible for him to... [[Abg. Aumayr: Upper cashier!]] Look at this. Mr Rosenstingl is evading - and you are defaming the band! [[Abg. Aumayr: Also in the ÖVP!]] Mrs. Aumayr, your calls are another proof of your all-round diffamation. Mr Rosenstingl defrauded - also with the possibilities given to him by the Freedom Party. Without such control, he was made the apparently fully dispositionable chairman of the Freedom-Economics Ring in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Aumayr: Why don't you want a committee of inquiry, Mr. Cot?]] He was given the opportunity to get into this cash register. We don't know what other checkouts he's got into yet. [[Abg. Aumayr: We need a committee of inquiry to do this!]] This will provide us with justice, which cannot be done by any committee of inquiry. A generalistic investigation of where Mr. Rosenstingl - with your or without your help - has defrauded everywhere is the case of law enforcement authorities and no one else. [[Abg. Aumayr: You only make accusations!]] Mrs Petrovic! You said you were not irritated by the consent of the liberals. But at least thoughtful, you should become involved in their reaction and consider why it is so easy for them to participate in this distraction maneuver. [[Abg. Wabl: It is easy to see through at the FPÖ! It's harder to understand with you!]] It's a distraction maneuver. Not the FPÖ is guilty, not Haider is guilty, although he has made Rosenstingl a representative, not the ring of Free Trader is guilty, no: It is the law enforcement authorities and the other authorities that are alleged not to have acted accordingly. This request presupposes something which I do not believe has been proved in any way and to which no committee of inquiry really needs clarification. However, I am also opposed to some other points in your request for the setting up of an investigation committee, Dr Petrovic. You said: There are many public servants in the Freedom Party, and it is to be examined whether they would not have violated their duty under the Criminal Code. - I think that is the style of Mr Stadler, just the other way round. I also do not participate when members of a profession, simply because they belong to a particular party, are given such a thing from the outset, although there is no indication of that. At the end of the day - I see that you did not mean your request seriously - you have asked for two things in it as the subject of the Committee of Inquiry, which are nothing but normal parliamentary work. They want to make a possible government template, which is to be drawn up, the subject of an investigation committee. Put a motion for a resolution! A committee will deal with this, and we will say yes or no to it. There is nothing to examine in the question of whether a government proposal should be drawn up. This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. We will not accept such a request, and the Freedom Party will certainly not discharge us from its moral and political responsibility for the case of Rosenstingl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14227	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14242	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals will vote in favour of this request because we are convinced that the rounding of envelopes and the transfer of responsibility to the judicial authorities are the wrong way. But in order to close this door, it would be valuable to ask in the house and to find out exactly who knew when and when what was going on or didn't pass it on. With regard to the last two points raised by Mr Schwimmer, we believe that it would be useful to draw conclusions from the discussions of this Committee of Inquiry on whether amendments should not be included in the Party Law or in the Club Finance Act. For in the context of this case there will certainly be mechanisms which may even be possible with other political groups, if there would be a similar responsible action, as appears to be the case here. It is therefore useful to also ask whether something needs to be changed in the party law or in the club financing law. We shall therefore vote in favour of this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14270	There is now a speech by Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14285	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer has now presented a master example of government party dialecticism: We must not set up a committee of inquiry so that the liberals cannot be released from their responsibilities. - You'll have to show us that first! I think that you too, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have enough similar cases in your ranks where you are happy if they are not examined and not mentioned in connection with an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Now you're going to be the "Reserve-Stadler"!]] The first time that I became staunch and came to the view that it would be very useful to set up an investigation committee was - in turn I refer to a report of the "time in Figure 2 or "time in Figure 3" - when I heard the Member of Parliament justify Schreiner in connection with his company connection with Mr Rosenstingl. That's what he said: He, together with Mr Rosenstingl, founded a company, a company that had nothing to do with that activity, which had nothing to do with, obviously the only thing that happened or what should have happened, was that money flows into or over this company structure. I think this is worth researching if, in connection with non-profit housing companies and company constructions, which are located around a non-profit housing company, there are company constructions that are obviously to be used up a little, or where there is, at least, the possibility of individual private enriching. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler! Unfortunately, this is not a coincidence. I can still remember a conversation that I had - at the time still as a workers' chamber council in the Chamber of Workers in Vienna - with a liberal workers' chamber council. He's been talking to me about this: How about the group money, do you share it? - I was somewhat tipping out of the "socks" when the colleague of freedom spoke to me, of course, about the fact that there are political funds to be distributed. Then when I was annoyed - he was very trusted - he said: This is the case with us, but in a way that I do not agree with; for with us, the leader of the political groups has made a construction on these political funds, an association - these were the freedom workers - in which not only his wife but also his children have found employment. - This has obviously not been understood by this liberal colleague as the way in which group funds are to be divided, probably because he thought: It should also look out for my wife and my children or for my personal well-being. This is a way of thinking, of which I can well imagine that it has also occurred in the context of these company structures. But now I have come away from the government dialectics and to the free logic. You certainly all know the following sentence, which is logically insoluble: A Cretan says that all the Cretans lie. You don't know if the Cretan says the truth or the untruth. Then: Even if he says the truth, it is obvious that all the Cretans lie. I come from this phrase of logic to free logic: What if a liberal leader not only claims once, but often says, "All the liberals say the truth"? - Now we have the case of Rosenstingl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No more freeman!]] It could now be concluded that at least the liberal leader has said the untruth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rosenstingl has stood away from the community!]] But there are other conclusions, Mr Stadler. It is precisely about the fact that such a committee of inquiry could be made very clear and should include, in fact, the liberal and other developments in connection with the so-called malversations of Mr Rosenstingl. How far are the structures of the liberals responsible for the fact that such a thing could happen in the Freedom Party and in its environment? How far are other liberal officials - I refer once again to the bankers - involved in saying the untruth or breaking the banking secret? A committee of inquiry should also find an answer, ladies and gentlemen - this is not just for the freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14352	There is still a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Stadler ahead. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14368	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the ÖVP has really sent all its intellectual "weights" to the speaker's desk, last but not least, colleagues, who, in the absence of any specific arguments for rejecting the request: Look at Mr. Stadler. If you're not bad yet, you'll be bad at it, ladies and gentlemen. If I look at my fellow swimmer, I have to say that I cannot share this opinion. I cannot be satisfied with the width of my colleague, ladies and gentlemen. I realize to swimmers why the ÖVP has been losing for many years. - Because it is, swimmers thank you, people like swimmers, -- abcassiers, multifunctionaries and upper swimmers who always swim up like the fat eyes on the soup, ladies and gentlemen! Swimming always swims up. I am also not the opinion of Mr Wabl, Mr Schwimmer, who said last time when I look into the face of Mr Schwimmer's face, I am looking forward to the fragility of the unjust state. [[Abg. Wabl: I didn't say that! Please correct it! I quoted the "Salzburger Nachrichten"!]] Excellently reflected, Mr. Cot. Who did you quote? [[Abg. Wabl: The "Salzburger Nachrichten"!]] Ah, they wrote that! They wrote this about the swimmer! So I'm not the opinion of the Salzburger Nachrichten. I can't even look enough at my colleague Swimmer. As long as there are officials like you, Mr Schwimmer, as long as the rise of FPÖ is not stopped by Rosenstingls and other wild Members, ladies and gentlemen. They are one of the best guarantees for our further development. The ambiguity that you and Mrs Mertel, of course, have delivered for the two government parties today, is really unique. In the morning, you refused to support the application for the abolition of non-professional immunity. Now you reject a request to set up an investigation committee. Twice you say no to things you have publicly claimed that they are absolutely necessary. That's hypocrisy to the square! And they call this hypocrisy Casinertum. You're a classic casin party. Mr President. They know that this is a concept of political science. A casin party is called a party - I repeat it - which, like Mr Schwimmer, I cannot see enough of you, Mr Schwimmer, drinking wine in masses - and preaching water. This is the problem of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. The swimmers are the problem. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic! If you think that the request for the abolition of immunity has nothing to do with the request of the National Criminal Court - that is, with the Causa Rosenstingl - then you are mistaken. I would like to ask you once again, the request made by the National Criminal Court. May this year to read. In the last paragraph, it is precisely the question of Article 57. 3 1. B-VG, i.e. if there is a political link and then consent is sought for extradition. That is to say, Mrs Petrovic, you are called upon to be one of the best lawyers in your group, but that is soon to say that, if exactly the problem of non-professional immunity is affected by a Member and his activity is affected by malversations, there is a criminal offence, such as Mrs Schmidt, with her data-clause problems, which she has continued to face. Look, that's the problem. But if we abolish this extra-professional immunity, we can lead Mrs Schmidt to prosecution and also Rosenstingl. We don't need to talk for long, there's no need to go to court. And we may then, in particular, be able to save ourselves applications for the setting up of committee of inquiry. But as long as you are not prepared to leave the law enforcement authorities to work unhindered, we will, in particular, bring another argument to the meeting - Mr. Schwimmer - I cannot look enough at you: The abolition of immunity is intended to prevent the need for more research committee activities in the future. For we have nothing against being tested everywhere. We want to check these processes! I have already said it in my previous statements: The Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior, all will have a problem with the Committee. Then we will check what the President of the National Council also knew. Four interesting institutions, all in the area of the great coalition, should explain to us what they knew about the Causa Rosenstingl. And if we can also clarify the party's finances and also understand the party's finances, we should be right. That is why I would ask you, Mr Schwimmer, if you look at me now and do not get bad with it, for the last time for today, you agree to this request. Please agree that what you preached in front of running cameras in the morning will also be realized in the evening!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14429	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We are now voting on Mr Petrovic's request, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall vote on Mr Petrovic's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Blamabel! Very blaming! Concealer!]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14470	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 765/A to 769/A. Questions 4351/J to 4398/J have also been received. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00118_d7e14492	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol so that it is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate wording of the decision just adopted by the National Council. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol. "Tagesordnung according to Supplement A. The honourable Member, Dr. Khol, requests that a debate be held in accordance with § 59 para. 3 GOG concerning the handling of § 2 GOG. This request shall be adopted unanimously. The debate on the Rules of Procedure, in which the President held the term of office of Members in accordance with Article 59(1) of the Rules of Procedure, shall be carried out by the President. 3 GOG limited to 5 minutes. Implementation of the current hour. With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, the President refers to the communication pursuant to § 23 para. 4 GOG (Annex A/1) According to § 44 para. Two GOGs will be taken unanimously, with the necessary two-thirds majority, from the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report in 1183 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Stadler and comrades submit the deadline request Supplement B and request for a short debate. There is a written request, supported by 20 Members, for reading the Official Protocol of 118. National Council meeting (Annex C)... Deputies Dr. Kostelka and Dr. In accordance with Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 57(1) of the EC Treaty. 4 the request to limit the speaking time for this item to 50 minutes per club (Annex I/1). This request shall be adopted by a majority vote.... At 12.26 p.m. Resumption of negotiations at 13.29 a.m. At 14.56 p.m. the meeting was suspended until the short debate on the request for a deadline at 3 p.m. Member of the MMag. Dr Petrovic and comrades submit the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry (Annex D) and a request for a short debate. The time limit application Supplement B is rejected... Resumption of the agenda item at 3:36 p.m. In accordance with the Committee's request in 1183 of the Supplements, it is decided unanimously: 1. The adoption of a warrant against the Member of the National Council of Peter Rosenstingl for the criminal acts which he has been charged with in proceedings 22c vr 1208/97 and the conduct of these house searches in this procedure shall be carried out in accordance with Art. 57 para. 2 B-VG approved. 2. The sanctions imposed on the Member to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl are related to the political activity of the Member concerned. 3rd. The official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Peter Rosenstingl on the persecution of the criminal offences committed to him in proceedings 22c vr 1208/97 is in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG approved. The short debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. The application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry Supplement D is rejected. ... The President noted that the Member of Parliament, Peter Rosenstingl, remained unpunished at the present session." Are there any objections to the just-reading version or the content of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The The official protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 5.31 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
