ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2062	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places. I greet you and open the 141. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 138. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In September 1998, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. They are therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, Members of Parliament are Applebeck, Haidlmayr, Mag. Main, Dr. Höchtl, Dr. Mock, Sauer and Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2096	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery issued a resolution by the President of the Federal Government on the representation of members of the Federal Government, as follows: The Minister of State Defense Dr. Werner Fassleven is represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. Recognition of the Constitutional Court on the loss of a Member's mandate
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2120	According to § 2 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare that the Constitutional Court's knowledge of the request by the National Council for a declaration of the loss of the mandate given by Mr Peter Rosenstingl on 30 October. ==References== ==References====External links== In July 1998, Peter Rosenstingl was asked to declare his mandate to be a delight. In accordance with Article 141 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has now rightly recognized the following – I quote – as follows: "The request of the National Council shall be accepted. The member of the National Council Peter Rosenstingl is declared to be a delight in his mandate in the National Council." - Quote. The Constitutional Court's decision was adopted on 1 January. In October 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Hermann Mentil has been granted the mandate of Mr Peter Rosenstingl. The so-called suffrage has now been sent to the Parliamentary Directorate. Since the said person is not present in the house, I reserve the time for fishing for later. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2152	Mr President. I would point out, without feeling that I am an ex-official defender of a liberal Member, that, within the shortest period of time, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will for the second time prevent this House from being properly composed. We have 183 mandates in this House, and the House is currently made up of 182 Members. Mr President. In this context, I should like to point out that, for Mr Mentil, the 30-days-frist is starting to run again according to § 2 of the GOG and that he must point out that he has to enter the National Council in order to ensure a proper composition.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2184	Deputies! There is a provision in the Rules of Procedure for Members of the European Parliament to make the drawing up of them at the time of entry. In practice, this was usually so that it is at the time of the election. If that is not the case now, you can wait a few hours, and then the necessary decisions will be made. – So much on this matter. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2206	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: Government failure on the safety of Austrian mines
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2227	First of all, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has spoken. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2248	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! ==References== The disaster of Lassing occurred in July of this year. All the opposition parties urged the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs to assume his political responsibility, at least to pave the way for a parliamentary inquiry. The Federal Minister has a different understanding of political responsibility. His view is apparently that he cannot be held responsible for the past. He said he wanted to do better in the future. He also said: Yes, there were mistakes in Lassing, there were difficulties in the rescue phase! In the last few years, he himself has criticised his own officials and criticised the competent authority. Federal Minister! We of the Greens consider this understanding of political responsibility unbearable. But although I think this understanding is unbearable, I want to tell you, Mr Federal Minister, now what has happened since then. What has happened since Lassing's disaster? Have you assumed the responsibility in your mind or not? Federal Minister! If we look at Lassing ourselves, we can say: Nothing's improved there. We are dealing there with an international group that is behind the miners and is now exerting great pressure on the families. There was a meeting in Graz in mid-September, and at this meeting, Mr. Federal Minister, the owner, Mr. Talmon, strongly criticized the members because they are now also represented by lawyers. The work itself does not say a word anymore without hours of consultation with the lawyers. Mr Talmon shifts responsibility to a single manager, Mr Schmidt, and says that he has told everyone else. And Mr Talmon also says that the operation in Lassing will only be received for social reasons. In the clear text it means that people should kiss, they should not just be represented by the law, because otherwise the group will take a different course. Have you supported the people of Lassing, Mr. Federal Minister? Have you done anything against this third extortion strategy? - I didn't notice anything. Federal Minister! Rio Tinto is a truly famous and well-known group, and he has a rich anti-democratic history. Rio Tinto has supported the Franco fascists, Rio Tinto has fought alongside the South African apartheid regime, Rio Tinto has supported the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile, Rio Tinto has supported Suharto in Indonesia. Rio Tinto has always worked with the military. Rio Tinto is responsible for the destruction of trade union movements, tortures, killings, expulsions of indigenous peoples. Rio Tinto has dismantled illegal uranium and is behind the uranium ore stores of the various quasimafiosis compounds. What have you done against this group, Mr. Federal Minister? What did your authority do? There are the Leoben men's unions at work, of which you know how they work, of which you know that this is also a very honorable society, of which people from Leoben say: Yeah, we're some kind of mafia, the prunes are exactly demarcated, no one wants to hurt the other. What did you do, Mr Federal Minister, when you were repeatedly alerted to inconsistencies? – I didn’t notice your late responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again to Lassing, Federal Minister: Parliamentary questions are simply ignored by the mining section. After Lassing: Questions about bodies, committees and committees in your department are simply not answered by Mr. Section Head Wüstrich. – No indication, no indication, no indication – on questions such as the proportion of women, on the question of representation in the various mining bodies. The section does not answer. I have not heard a word from you about the fact that you do not tolerate it. Mr Federal Minister, this will be the presidial tomorrow, and you will no longer be able to press on with this responsibility! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, another point – everything after Lassing, everything in the time of your alleged responsibility: Just now, in these minutes, a press conference with the Clary family from Lavanttal takes place not far from here in a coffee house on Ringstraße. Their house slips through a mining plant, all approved by the authority, all sanctioned, just from it. Huge cracks are in the house of the Clary family, which operates a auxiliary farming. The family is financially not well placed, has four children and does not know and knows. And yesterday, the representative of the Bergbehörde from Carinthia declared that they had only received the files in 1991 from the District Headquarters, and who is expecting to have already been able to examine the files in seven years' time? Federal Minister! What does it look like in the other mines? How often is the case of the Clary family? And do you know what the Clary family Mountain Authority recommended with its four children? – She may sue the company because she is supposed to take the civil law path. – In order to perhaps get a judgment in four, five, six years, after legal expenses at six-digit schilling height. Do you think that's reasonable? Do you think this is an act of your personal responsibility, Mr. Federal Minister? – I think it is irresponsible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! What is it like in the other Austrian mines? Is there a mining map work – or does it look like Lassing? Has a single complete review of an Austrian mine taken place from below to top since 17.7.1998? – I am not aware of anything, Minister of State. Is there a marker separator, the central security function, or is there none, as in Lassing – with tolerance of the authority? What have you done since then? How safe are the other Austrian mines? However, I note that the Supreme Mountain Authority is very much in the foreground of other projects, in various tunnel buildings, always on the side of the operators, always against the population, and always says, as in the Lainzer Tunnel, which does not fulfil the appropriate safety requirements: Nothing's going to happen! – All this after Lassing, Federal Minister, and always with your personal participation. One last, Minister of State. A Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which was drawn up in 1995 (ILO), was held in the Council of Ministers in 1997. If Parliament had decided this on the basis of a recommendation from the Government, then the accident in Lassing would probably not have happened. Workers would have had more rights to lay down their jobs if there were safety concerns, without losing their claims. There should have been a second escape route. And how did the Supreme Mountain Authority comment on this? It did not recommend implementation. "No special implementation measures" was considered necessary by the Supreme Mountain Authority. Unfortunately, the Central Labour Inspectorate did not prevail. Federal Minister! From Lassing to the other companies, to Rio Tinto, to the International Conventions: You have not complied with your responsibility even after Lassing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2359	In order to deliver an opinion on the topic of the current hour, the Federal Minister has notified himself. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2380	Mr President. High house! I believe that I will stick to what I have said to you in other cases on the issue of the perception of political responsibility. First of all, I would like to address the specific cases raised by Mrs Petrovic. I can come to other things later on in the discussion. It's very concrete. First of all: I was back with the family in Lassing yesterday. I have assumed my responsibility in all five areas raised by me. First of all, the recovery of those missing – perhaps a few words later – where the procedure continues. Second point: the care of the family. Thirdly, the continuing employment of workers at work. Fourth point: securing the future of the valley. Fifth point: working on cleaning in the legal area, in the mountain law. At any point I could talk here for a long time, but let me present it as briefly as possible. Secondly, I do not see any reason to let myself into a war with a company, whatever the reputation, on account of this occasion as Minister of Economic Affairs. I don't have a war with Rio Tinto. I'm dealing with the Naintsch company. The company Naintsch is sometimes difficult enough. It has appealed against the recovery notice, we have decided immediately, and the recovery will continue. There are always minors, such as the non-payment of invoices. We are interconnected and have pre-financed so that companies do not go bankrupt and we have taken the necessary measures. Now the company pays back again – no matter how cheerful. I have ensured that, if these difficulties persist, I speak to the head of Rio Tinto. At the moment, there is no need for this. I do not want to start an official war against any company from this occasion, but on the spot everything must run as we have planned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second point. Long before the accusation of possession was put into space elsewhere, I announced to the International Expert Commission, which today has its constituent meeting. It was clear from the outset that not only in this traditional area can it be found that experts can work on both the issue of rescue-mountain assessment and the establishment of future recovery efforts as well as, finally, an accompanying determination of causality. The next accusation: ILO. – This accusation goes completely empty as far as I am concerned. The measures provided for in the ILO Agreement were partly implemented by my mountain authorities, as far as we considered necessary, even without ratification in Austria. Some of this has already been done, some of it is now also done in the mountain law, and I have, on the other hand, led to this agreement being finally taken seriously at tomorrow's Council of Ministers meeting, which I do not have any influence on. - So much for the second point. Third point: I would assume that all the other measures announced will be continued in accordance with their needs. Let me call these shortly – and this is still going on, Mr President. I repeat: We've found out what we've learned from Lassing, because something like this can repeat again and again. Lassing is also a pan-European experience. This was found internationally at the mining symposium two weeks ago in Leoben. Commissioner Padraig Flynn wrote me a letter yesterday, saying: "Aus Lassing must learn all Europe." This learning process has been initiated by us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Other points: The establishment of a training course for crisis management has already begun. It will take place in Leoben in the first half of 1999. The construction of the mobile deployment force has already been commissioned and is in progress. Next point: We are already working in the house on the construction of the national computer file about auxiliary equipment and teams. It is in the meantime that we are going to launch such a file in Europe. We have also launched the digitisation of the mine plans. It should be continued as quickly as possible. With regard to the dissatisfaction with regard to marker separators, I should like to remind you that there is a legal system in this respect which has been decided to provide for transitional arrangements by the next summer. This can be speeded up. Next point: Structure of the mountain authorities. In the draft, which will be passed by the Council of Ministers tomorrow, we have provided for the resolution of the mountain authorities. There will only be one authority in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which will then work according to another strategy and service concept. This new mountain law also takes all measures that take into account the justified expectations of residents, communities and countries. For the accusation: Brenner brickwork. I can only say that the causes of the slides at the Brenner brickworks are based on the geological structure of the slope and the local hydrogeological conditions. Due to the degradation of clay in the early 1960s, the labile slope was weakened and thus the terrain movements were favoured. At that time, the administrative permits and supervision of the mining were not with the mountain captains, but with the district authorities. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: It was legal with the mountain authorities! Since 1990!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Since 1990!]] Only by the mountain law novels... – let me speak out – only by the mountain law novel in 1990 did this area become a mining area. At that time, the buildings of the Clary estate had already been built, although the construction authority should have recognized first instance that it was a slip. [[Abg. Wabl: Oh, now the mayors are to blame! The Mountain Authority has nothing to do with this!]] As a result of the action of the Mountain Head Team Klagenfurt, the sliding slope below the property Clary was once again stabilized so that no ground movements can be detected. The claims made in this context in the media that the buildings are at acute risk of collapse are irrelevant after expert opinion. This has also been confirmed by the construction expert. Inaccurate is the fact that three estates are affected by the slide. The damage to the other buildings cannot be traced back to the slide. – So much about the findings in this regard. One further comment, because this has been claimed recently in the area, namely the question of whether our internal regulations are actually at the last technical level of things; a reference also to various experts. Ladies and gentlemen! I am happy to discuss in detail the fact that we have tried to put the state of the art into practice in the relevant regulations in all the regulations adopted in the meantime since 1995. This includes the Mountain Police Regulation for Electrical Engineering from 1996, the 1995 electromagnetic impact assessment, the 1997 Mountain Police Regulation on Responsible Persons and the 1997 Markscheider Regulation with transitional arrangements until this year. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: But it's ignored!]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2471	Thank you many times, Minister of State. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are uniformly 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Unfortunately, your answer was more than unsatisfying. If you declare that the measures that would be taken in the ILO Convention for Austria have been implemented by your authorities, as far as they were considered necessary, I can only resist what was replied in the documents for the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs by the federal central bodies surveyed: It is true that the Supreme Mountain Authority was of the opinion and still is that everything in its area is certainly palette. She would have made everything possible anyway. But it's also here: On the part of the Central Labour Inspectorate, it was noted that the current national legal situation does not fully comply with the Convention in a number of detailed provisions and that the creation of additional and stricter provisions on the protection of workers cannot be achieved in the near future. It should also be noted that the Chamber of Commerce would have expressed its support for the ratification of this ILO Convention, i.e. the implementation of it, but not the Chamber of Commerce. So we're back to the old duality: Economic Chamber and Ministry of Economic Affairs say: We are not interested in this, and the workers' side is left again in this case. This is not a small problem in this case, however, if it remains, because the ILO Convention requires Austrian statistics for dangerous incidents. There is no such thing, there is no interest in it. The ILO Convention also requires two separate escape routes in mines. There's no such thing. These could not be created that this is too cumbersome and technically complex, is argued. This seems to be possible in other countries, not in Austria. The ILO Convention calls for emergency plans, comprehensive emergency plans for industrial and natural disasters. The Mountain Authority says: We have something anyway, if a fire breaks out! Emergency plans are not available. Federal Minister! The ILO Convention requires an obligation to discontinue the holding in the event of a danger. This means that the workers must be sent out and not sent down into the pit. – Where is the clear arrangement in Austria, Mr. Federal Minister? I have thus come to an end with my statements on the ILO Convention. It has not been implemented. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Members of Parliament Koppler and Nuremberg.]] Federal Minister! If you whisper to me now and say that the ILO agreement has not been ratified, I remind you that you have just explained that you have already implemented everything. You didn't implement it! It has not been ratified because there is resistance, and so it has not been implemented. In addition to other authorities, your authorities are responsible for this. To work this out was the meaning of this speech, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Second point: Mr Nürnberger was still quite surprised at the programme on the subject, and he said that the savings package could not be due to the fact that there is no obligation to visit businesses annually under Berggesetz. The Federal Minister now tells us that the mountain law is being changed. Only, Mr Federal Minister, do we know how this provision, which has actually been quietly and secretly eliminated in the context of the savings packages, namely this commitment by the Bergbehörde to an annual visit, is handled. We know what these visits look like. Before the Mountain Authority comes, this is communicated to the workers: Dear worker, here comes the Mountain Authority, put on your helmet! But this commitment has already been abolished by the savings package. Where and when will she be reintroduced, Minister of State? I'd be interested. In addition, they have not explained anything about my very specific question – and this is also important in the debate on Lassing, which we are discussing – why nothing has yet been done to examine the allegation that accidents at work have been declared a leisure accident in Lassing. What is the way your authorities act, Mr. Federal Minister? Where did you do something to finally bring light to this thing? You know that this accusation has been publicly raised several times, not only by media but also by interested parties. What have you done in this matter? I'd be interested, Minister of State. Your behavior, your concealment, but also your inability to create clear competences in this matter and to move forward clearly... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2556	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2572	... make it all the more necessary for a committee of inquiry to be set up in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2602	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2623	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will also remain in my position in today's debate on this tragic pit accident, not to make any pre-conceptions, not as far as political responsibility is concerned, but to do so until the report by the committee of experts and the public prosecutors has been made available to the House and the public. Estimated Minister of State! I am already allowed to make some critical remarks about the authorities of the Mountain Team. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has already put a few comments on your table, and just because they come from a member of the opposition, I do not think they should be swept away from the table. I will also tell you – we will then give you some facts –: I have not yet experienced any authority in this country that acts as arrogantly and as highly as the mountain captains, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I wanted to appeal to the House to sign the ILO Convention. But since this is currently under discussion, let me make a few comments before. I can also recall the meetings of the Committee on Budgets which Mr Ollinger has quoted. There it was your representative of the Bergbehörde, Mr. Minister – a certain Mr. Ing. Maier, who has become famous because he has declared all dead; fortunately we have then saved Hainzl alive – who has said that we do not need to sign the ILO agreement. But what honourable Member Ollinger said is true: Some of these essential points are not fulfilled. And it was I, Mr Federal Minister, and I and my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs, who have prevented a decision not to sign the ILO agreement but to postpone its treatment. I am very glad that it will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers tomorrow, and I am calling on you today, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt and adopt this Convention unanimously as possible and to ensure that those measures which we do not yet have in Austria are introduced as soon as possible in the sense of the ILO Convention and thus in the sense of more protection for our members in the mining industry. But now a few facts about the mountain captain team. I can remind myself that, when I held before the head of the section and the representative Zechling from Leoben on the television show "On the matter" that the representatives of the main team of the mountain Leoben had been in Lassing 23 times, which has been swept away and then argued that they would have been there only three or four times. A few days later, your deputy section manager from the Bergbehörde admitted that Lassing has actually been visited 23 times in recent years. Now I have to ask the question: What happened on these visits? Didn't you look at the plans? Didn't you get into the mine? Further: I think it is really an argument from the bottom drawer – brought out by a section leader and spread by his representatives in all the public – that one tries to shift all responsibility to the Bertriebsrats, that one sits down, ladies and gentlemen, and says that the Works Council has no time for training, he is not there, but he trusts the Mountain Authority anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] It is important to know that all mines still in operation in Austria with very few exceptions are small and micro-enterprises in which there are 30, 35 or 40 employees. The Works Council is therefore not exempt and, if it is not exempted from the layer, does not have the possibility of taking part in a visit when the Mountain Authority comes. The Mountain Authority should be obliged – I ask you to clarify this also in the novel or in the new law that we decide to do – when it comes to understanding the representation of workers' interests. It must be stated that workers' representatives must be quite simply involved in the proceedings. Federal Minister! A few days after the broadcast on TV, all the works council chairmen still in the mining industry were in our trade union at a conference. I have been confirmed by the vast majority of these colleagues that the Lassing case is not an individual case and that, in principle, in 70 to 80 percent of the cases, the head of the mountain team is not ready to take part in the representation of interests, the works councils say. As far as your representative's argument on television is concerned that the savings package is to blame, you, Mr Minister, should personally have the greatest interest in the fact that this official does not maintain this argument in public, for he has thereby passed on the ball of responsibility to you, which means that you have been so separated by re-transmissions in your ministry that he can no longer fulfil his responsibility. I would therefore ask you to make it clear in your own interest that the savings package has certainly not been the fault of it. Federal Minister! You said you were back in Lassing yesterday. I don't know if you're going to report to you, and if that's the problem, I don't know. It has been referred to us only yesterday afternoon and I have not yet been able to verify, which means: Problems occurred again. There are still damaged houses with cracks, and someone should decide whether to enter the houses or not. The Berghüpmannschaft cleans down, pushes it to the company, and the company pushes it to the Berghüpmannschaft. Minister! I would ask you to give clear instructions to the mountain authority in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2701	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e2730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The families of the ten people who still lie in the mine of Lassing in the afternoon, the families that have come to harm, the suffering that has come upon these people, the families who live in houses that are threatened, the village that has come out of balance and has to take the heavy burden on them – all these people deserve our participation and deserve justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what we must in all cases prevent, but in part cannot prevent, is that there are people and politicians who want to hit political capital out of this disaster. [[Abg. Wabl: Pharisee!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Pharisee!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would like to make a point here as follows: Let us take our own noses and let us not make the Minister responsible for something where Parliament has become preoccupied. [[Abg. Oils: The government!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The government parties!]] For, ladies and gentlemen, the ILO Convention was signed on 18 November. In June 1997, the Council of Ministers submitted to Parliament for ratification, and it was the Social Committee of this Parliament which decided to postpone it. [[Abg. Wabl: Pharisee!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We have submitted four applications for the mountain law!]] It is therefore not the responsibility of Farnleitner, but the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has called for the implementation of this agreement to be reviewed. [[Abg. Oellinger: Your group!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Wabl has called for the word 'Pharisians', I would like to say: It's pharysic! [[Abg. Wabl: Give up government responsibility!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] For Parliament has had the ILO agreement in Parliament during the last legislative period. [[Abg. Wabl: Give up government responsibility!]] That is to say, the accusations made here are not justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Give up government responsibility!]] Mr Oellinger said he wanted a committee of inquiry. [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and to the Greens.]] I'd like to say: We already have a committee of inquiry, which is meeting today, an international committee of inquiry, which is equipped with important experts, who have a mandate to review the rescue work and also to check the guilt of this mining accident. [[Abg. Oillinger: We want to examine your political responsibility!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Step back as a government party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very clearly: I'm against a shredder's court. I'm against pre-conceptions. [[Abg. Wabl: Where's your responsibility?]] I do not understand how you, ladies and gentlemen of those political groups who are requesting an investigation committee, can actually be responsible for disposing of justice, prosecutors, police and international experts. I'll tell you: We and the people have more confidence in the international experts than in a political court! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Pharisee! Step away, Mr. Khol!]] Minister Farnleitner and the Federal Government as a whole – since the Federal Government has dealt several times with Lassing and the consequences – have launched a number of measures. The Minister pointed out that without delay he became very active at the point in the question of Lassing, that he was constantly concerned about the fate of the people, about the fate of the village, about the fate of all who live in this valley... [[Abg. Wabl: A weak defense of duty!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3004	Mr Wabl, please let the speaker speak. The speaking time is limited!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3019	I therefore believe that not the Government and Minister Farnleitner are the problem, but that the government and the authorities are preparing the solution. [[Abg. Wabl: Our tolerance to infamy is also limited!]] We should have confidence in justice – tomorrow we have a report – we should have confidence in the international Commission, and I have confidence in the Austrian population, because the Austrian people know very well that it is not the government and the ministers responsible for this tragic accident but a chain of circumstances. [[Abg. Wabl: What can the population do for this?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Don't take the Austrian population into hostages!]] Justice demands that responsibility be established, and then you will see who is responsible. You, ladies and gentlemen of the two opposition groups Green and Liberal, know everything in advance. From your knowledge in the past, prejudice and prejudice become a prejudice. You cannot expect an objective procedure. This has shown itself again today in the way you have dealt with the ILO agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[10:41]] President Dr Heinz Fischer: Mr Wabl! I'm beating the expression "infamy." That's not how we talk to each other! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: But hypocrisy is all due!]] Mr Grollitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Grief needs peace. From Pietät before ten wasted are abandoned political maneuvers. – That was the tenor of that consolation hour, that successful consolation hour on site. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But there were some missing!]] The fact that Mrs Petrovic and her colleagues were not there is that Mr Khol and Mr Nuremberger and others have never been seen there has been mentioned on the verge. But you were there, Mr Federal Minister, and you gave right there noding and agreeing to those speakers who said that there is no populism taking place here, there is no political change being made here. But what did you do yourself a few days later? – In the ORF in front of the running camera, they assumed to have found the cause of this accident at the same time. They claimed to have had the documents only a few minutes before, although every spat on the roofs in Lassing "the day after" knew the degradation of the sole 1A and the contexts were aware of all the saviors. Mrs. Petrovic, who is playing here as the cleaner, sends her sniffers on the spot, who are still going from door to door today and are talking to the people who were still alive. – That’s about the piety about the spills you treat them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kammerlander.]] Lord Nuremberger, on the other hand, goes in front of the camera and speaks of the arrogant Montanists. [[Abg. Wabl: It's bad that you play there!]] Here he repeated it: Who can be as arrogant as a mining authority? – Mr Nürnberger, look in the mirror! Mr. Barmüller, prospecting expert in the first category, seems to have developed some communication with the mule population in Lassing. He finds one hollow room after another, making his political change. We liberals have kept us out of all this. We have tried to have the investigators examined in an objective atmosphere. [[Abg. Oillinger: Because you're married to the people!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Because these are your people! Because you're married to the Mountain Team!]] [[Further lively calls to the greens.]] We still demand the following: The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister must be invited to a committee. [[Abg. Wabl: Who put the shark back because of the special meeting? - The blue burgers!]] These two have promised to do everything in their power to help the Enlightenment. But what does the Chancellor of the Federal Republic do in the course of his occupation? – He tells the helpers, the miners, the firemen, the technical rescue service after the rescue of Mr. Hainzl: Humanity has won over the technocrats! – How does a fireman feel, how does a miner feel, who did not get 30 hours of sleep during the first week of the rescue? How does he feel when such accusations land with him from the highest point of view? [[Abg. Wabl: Why did the Blue Burschens squeak back the Haider from the special meeting?]] How do the employees in the Bergbehörde – and I ask you, Minister – feel about the media that your authority has actually been abolished? You're the author. [[Abg. Wabl: The Blue Burschens from Leoben have rebuffed Mr. Haider from a special session!]] After all, how do those... Mr Wabl, I do not have time to respond to your inaccurate, blasphemous statements. [[Abg. Wabl: Why has he been pumped back?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why does the Wabl not get an order call?]] [[Abg. Böcker: Stop the Wobl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stop the watch!]] The colleague Petrovic has already told us...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3284	Member of the Grollitsch! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a really tragic issue that we are discussing here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say this to Mr. Wabl! His calls are immense!]] I say it all, and I ask everyone - I have already asked Mr Wabl and made it clear - that certain expressions are not permitted. I would like to see this debate conducted in a way that is appropriate to the subject. That's why I'm asking you with all the emphasis! Please, Mr. Dr. Grollitsch, continue! I'll give you a minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3311	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be provoked by the calls and I will stick to the procedure you have set up to deal with this subject objectively and with the subject, because the population has no understanding of populism in terms of ten wastes in the mountain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But another sentence on the matter itself: What is it about, Minister of State? – The mountain law must finally be gone! That's why and that's what it's all about. You, Mr. Federal Minister, still have us on 17 November. July about the media announces that mountain law has been negotiated, the novelles stand, the socialist side has given up. ==References== July, when the accident happened, this news came about on the media, and on that day, Minister of State, you were true to your group. For two years, you have tried to change mountain law in a form that we have partly been able to go along with, although we have not been sufficiently objectively involved in the discussion. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] We argued for a commodity supply law, could not bring us full content, but at least in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3347	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3362	You fell by that day, Minister of State. In the meantime, you have not only abandoned your people and continued to step down, you will now also find it difficult to keep your promise at the comfort hour: Suspense, rest from respect for those who are thrown down there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3393	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3414	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is only one reason why the liberals hold back in this way in the Lassing question, and this is the fact that there are at least as many blacks as liberals in the Leoben Mountain Team. Or perhaps you even have to say it the other way around. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Missing yet that the haider is guilty!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the lower level!]] Member of the Grollitsch! Don't piety hold you back on this question. If you looked into the mountain captain in Leoben in the Lassing case, you would find out how deeply liberal partygoers are ensnared in this accident and in the government failure that exists there. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you talking like this, Mr. Colleague? You're supposed to argue and don't mess!]] In other words, Mr Haigermoser, it is not to be explained that the paper on the consent of Mr Schmidt, the head of the works in Lassing, which the Minister of State held earlier, when he told us in the house and also the public in the 'cib', had one of your group in front of the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is the mole policy you are running! Mouths are blind!]] This was Mr Grollitsch, who has just been here at the speaker's desk. He apparently was there by chance at the hearing and therefore received the signature immediately. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where do you have your information, you pseudoliberal?]] This is the access of the liberals to this subject, and it would be just as clear in a committee of inquiry as the political responsibility of Mr Farnleitner, Minister of State, which we also want to clarify. But the fact that Mr Khol is here seeking to defend the untruths of Mr Farnleitner's Minister of State with new untruths is the bottom line for the barrel. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's great!]] [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] I would also like to tell you why, honourable Member: You said there was a failure of the legislator. I agree with you in one matter: The failure of the legislator was – and this is a failure of the great coalition – that all the years have been decided on by novices to the mountain law, which has grossly disregarded the rights of neighbouring people. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Make a holiday in Lassing, Mr. Barmüller!]] This is a responsibility of the great coalition, and it was the opposition that voted against the mountain law with the main argument that the rights of the border would not be taken into account. However, as far as the international Convention, which has not been ratified, is concerned, this is not a failure of the Committee, but is true that the report submitted by the Federal Government to the Social Committee for its decision-making states in summary that the conditions for ratification of the Convention are not at present, and not because the mountain law is not in accordance with the Convention. . This was the report that the Social Committee should have taken note of, as you can also read on page 32 of this request from the Federal Government. Because the Social Committee has not taken note of this, it is not a failure of the legislator, but the legislator has said: No, it has to be adapted here. And it was the Federal Minister, it was the great coalition, especially the Federal Government, who said: As long as the social partners do not agree, we will not decide in this House! And that is the system failure to criticize in this case. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] But the Federal Government did not want to withdraw all of this responsibility, and that is why it decided – I quote – that: "The Federal Government took part in the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the 18th century. June 1997" – a year before Lassing! – I welcome the report on the Convention and its recommendation and the decision taken by the Federal Ministers involved: Federal Minister Farnleitner and Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch – "invited to take into account, as far as possible, the provisions, proposals and suggestions of the two international instruments in the case of future measures in the field in question and to notify the National Council of the related report." So there is, ladies and gentlemen, not only under the mountain law – here I refer in particular to the articles 205 and 206 of the Berggesetz – a requirement for the Minister's regulation on safety in the mines, but also on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision of 18 June. In June 1997, the Minister had stopped the ILO Convention, which regulates the protection of work in mines, as far as possible. He has not done all of this, and this is a legal responsibility that adds to his political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Last point, ladies and gentlemen: In this country, the Federal Minister had the privilege of using an expert commission to clarify matters relating to his political responsibility. It is probably the first time that a person who is a direct target of a procedure and will still be a number of procedures in the future can appoint his own experts and say he will set up an expert commission. But this committee of experts must have an audit task, and this audit task has not yet been disclosed. There is the statement of Mr. Federal Chancellor climate in which he said...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3559	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3575	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The Federal Chancellor said that it had to be examined the time before the accident, the Federal Minister says, only after the accident. We demand that the Commission's audit mandate be formulated here in the House, not by the person concerned, namely by Mr Farnleitner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3608	Mrs Monika Langthaler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3629	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to the liberals what is already known to us in this House: If they are deep in the swamp themselves, they are not really interested in Enlightenment, and therefore they have no interest in serious truth finding at all in this case. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Good if you go to London!]] To Mr Klubobmann Khol, who said here that Parliament was sparse: You should really differentiate there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should force your excretion!]] It is above all the ÖVP in this house, which has been blocked for years, that the mountain law is being properly modernised, and it was the SPÖ, which unfortunately has carried this blockade, which has been maintained by the ÖVP for years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This speech does not even convey to Mr Kössler!]] I have brought you a number of requests from the Greens from the past few years in which we have tried to point out the gaps, weaknesses and the failure of the current mountain law. They've been rubbed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true! 1996! 1998! Did you sleep the novels?]] It is Lassing, and it is the tragedy that has happened there with all the consequences, not chance, but of course the system has. Federal Minister! Da_te I should like to remind you today that you are once again putting off your political responsibility, and I would remind you of how political responsibility is handled in other European countries in these days. Remember: A few weeks ago, a tragic case occurred in Belgium, where an asylumant was killed by two police officers. It was a matter of course for the Minister of the Interior that he assumed his political responsibility and resigned. A few months ago, several prisoners broke out in a prison in Italy, and the investigation that took a short time has shown that there was a system in that prison that led to this very case. The Minister of Justice has considered it a matter of course to exercise his political responsibility and to draw the consequences from it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That is to say, in every traffic accident, the Minister of Transport shall resign!]] Federal Minister! It already means taking on political responsibility or criminal responsibility. And you haven't fulfilled your political responsibility to this day. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Even today, you haven't used this current hour. If this is done as if a committee of inquiry, which would be responsible for this political responsibility, were to be set up by the fact that there is a scientific body, an expert body, which now looks at what has been done wrong, it is not at all comparable. This scientific body with international experts, with experts from Austrian institutes and also from your home should already meet, but it will never and never – and I assume that is logically not his task – be able to clarify the political responsibility. If Klubobmann Khol refers to this committee of experts in every debate on Lassing here in the House, he speaks against better knowledge. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] It is intelligent enough to know that this body should not clarify political responsibility and that only this House should exercise the control function and that, if such a clear failure has occurred, the executive must also examine and control accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But the facts can clarify it, Mrs. Langthaler!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The facts can clarify it, and due to the facts you can clarify the responsibility!]] Her attempt to disappear over and over again over political responsibility will not succeed. There is a broad resistance to the way you are dealing with this tragedy not only with this problem Lassing, but also with the current mountain law. I have a list here of all those communities that have been trying for years to change the mountain law. The Mountain Team is a state in the state in Austria, and we all know that. I give to the colleague Nürnberger completely right: An authority that has been acting with such arrogance for years is known to us. She has acted accordingly with all the novels to the mountain law. The SPÖ has promised the opposition parties and also me personally – it was Parliamentary Haindl – that the opposition to the Novemberle would be included in the mountain law if it were to take the mass raw materials out again, or if it were to make the law more civil. But now it's not the point anymore. To date, the opposition has not been involved in the re-processing and revision of this mountain law. You're really punctual here. It has been promised that work will be carried out in this House, especially after the events of Lassing, together with the opposition that has developed a high level of expertise in this area. But there is obviously the same system as before in the Berggesetz: ÖVP and SPÖ muzzle this alone. I really want to ask you: Don't make all the mistakes five times! Join the opposition parties at least in the reworking of the mountain law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3763	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3784	Mr President. High house! Some clarifications. If I look at the Austrian accident statistics, especially in the mining sector, I have to say: To be a minister of mining in Austria would have been a huge pleasure for years because we had fewer accidents every year and the mining industry was the world and also the most unfortunate industry in Austria. That's right! [[Abg. Oillingers: There were more leisure accidents for this! It is clear why accidents are getting less! Because they're being covered up!]] Now an accident has happened – and now you have a different understanding of political responsibility, the Minister, instead of dealing with accidents and their consequences. This is the most convenient concept of political responsibility. I'm taking this unpleasant thing. I'll be through these hard days. In the end, we will have a new law, a new authority and indisputable practices. – The first. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, an authority that has worked largely in terms of security for decades can now have consequences for other reasons, namely because it shows that a government organization cannot operate beyond municipalities, countries, citizens' interests in the long run, because it has too much dedicated to raw materials production! – do not simply condemn. There will be consequences in this respect. But it is true that it has not been told by the press to the gentlemen how a colleague of the FPÖ presented it – if I can say "college". Third point: This new authority will, above all, be able to contribute much more to controlling because of the new division of competence towards district headquarters, and this will be an overall plan of this newly founded authority in my home from the start. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last point: I have not chosen the members of the International Expert Commission. I have asked the European Union to choose them from German experts who can carry out their investigations in Austria independently. Speaking of a committee of convenience, I firmly reject that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3832	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3856	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Three comments on this discussion: On the one hand, I think it is with Mr Nürnberger who has said that he does not want to have any pre-conceptions until there are really solid reports on the table, and that the consequences of these reports must be drawn from them. I totally support that. Secondly, Mr Klubobmann Khol meant, not Farnleitner, but Parliament here bears responsibility, in particular the Social Committee and even more Mrs Hostasch. If I understood correctly, this would have been more a criticism of the social partners – in order to be allowed to say so – because they should have given appropriate opinions so that further decisions could have been made in good time. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to Mr Langthaler's speech, I would like to say that the amendment to the mountain law, which our group has been calling for for for years, has now come to a different dimension – unfortunately due to a very tragic accident. As you know, there will no longer be any novels to the mountain law, but the mountain law will be abolished at all. The six main mountain teams will be dissolved, the mountain authorities will be dissolved and a completely new mineral raw material law will be developed. I also believe that if this law comes to Parliament from the Council of Ministers – we have heard today that this draft should come to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, and I will also mention to you some of the demands we have made on the draft – that not only the government groups here in the House should be able to speak to this law, but also that the opposition parties should bring their considerations to this law and, of course, take them seriously by the government parties and have a discussion about it. I can also say, however, that essential demands made by social democracy on this law are, at first, incorporated, but perhaps that is not all that can be found in such a law. Above all, as far as the field of basic raw materials is concerned, I say: No one can see when 100 meters away from residential areas are blown into quarries, houses get jumps and cracks and people are afraid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] This is the current legal situation, and we simply cannot maintain it in this form. It must also be clear and clear that the affected residents and communities are to be given a clear position in the process of stottering. People need to be able to talk when something happens in their immediate surroundings and in their habitats. [[Abg. Wabl: Who prevented this in the house? Who's always braked?]] Mr Wabl! No, it's not slowed down! We will enforce these demands, including the coalition partner. It is also a question of the fact that, in accordance with the law, the transport of loose rock by means of a transport concept to be drawn up by the municipalities with the corresponding companies, people are not being harassed in a form such as is currently the case. And above all, it is also about the fact that the winning permits – in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland alone – have so far been approved by around 200 winning permits, but have not yet been decommissioned – are already subject to the new law, so that we come to a completely new, orderly structure: on the one hand, protection of the people, protection of the communities, protection of the agrarians and on the other hand also a possibility for the industry to run their businesses, and on the other hand, to reduce the raw materials and resources we have in Austria accordingly. We also thought of criminal proceedings. It should no longer be so that you can put 50 000 s of punishment aside – this sum does not feel such an operation at all – but we want to significantly increase the level of punishment, up to 1 million schilling. These are approaches that go in fundamental areas in the direction we imagine. I hope that, with these considerations, in cooperation with the opposition parties and also through discussions here in Parliament, we will come to a reasonable arrangement in this direction in the sense of the people, in the sense of the communities and in the sense of the people who have to live with such establishments. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3898	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e3919	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The disaster of Lassing and the suffering of its citizens will continue to concern us; I will give you the right to do so. Only I ask for one thing: to do this also with reason and consideration! For Pestalozzi has already said: "To early judgments are prejudices from which the error rises like the fog from the sea." [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Stippel.]] I would like to ask for one thing: to preserve the dignity of this debate, to recognize the dignity of the people who live in this place, who are very uncertain, and to respect this dignity also here in this House. That is why I would like to speak to one of my previous speakers, Mr Nuremberger. They are subject to arrogance and arrogance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Mr deputies and Mr President Nürnberger. I would not put this under a community, because there are people everywhere who do not conform to our ideas – even in your ranks! I reject lumpy convictions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say, Mr Nürnberger, that you have called the union now because there have been incidents, I wonder: Why have the works councils at your trade union not been introduced before and complained about it? [[Abg. Nürnberger: You already know the trade union pressure that was exerted?- Oh, my God!]] – Mr Nürnberger, Member of the Commission. There are trade unions, for which they have been founded: so that the works councils articulate the concerns of the workers and take them into account. What I have learned in the context of the changes in the mountain law since 1990, when various mines or gravel pits, which have always been included in the mountain law, was that, in particular, the protective measures for the workforce have been improved, which the commercial authority has not known and which has not known about the protection of workers. It is precisely by the Bergbehörde that the provisions on the protection of workers have been strengthened and thus become an example of international protection. [[Abg. Nürnberger: We always believed that! We believed this in Lassing, too!]] This is my knowledge. That is why we need to examine exactly what something is to be done about. I reject flat-rate submissions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Member of the Grollitsch! You said that Mr Farnleitner's Federal Minister made proposals on blackmail. He did not make any precepts, but he acted clearly, how it was heard and how it must be done by every responsible person, not first of all to dissuade their own people, but first to hear what they were saying, and then to see what was right and what was not right. That's what I do in my company. I cannot condemn everyone from the outset, I must first give faith to my fellow workers. If something's happened, I'll have to look into it. But you blamed the Minister for already putting the cause behind him. The Minister did not. He has just said that something has happened, that he has not known what needs to be examined and where to check whether this is a cause. This will have to be examined by an international Commission; we cannot do that here. For this reason, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to quote something to you. Peter Turrini is certainly someone you appreciate. He spoke at a feast on 26 May. In October 1996 the following words were said: "The happiness of an Austrian politician for a long time is no longer to light a blast furnace, to open a highway, but to be suspected of being in no newspaper for three days. It is totally irrelevant whether a suspected grain or chunks or whole massif of truth contains. It is crucial that at that speed in which reports appear and disappear again, truth and untruth cannot be separated. The result of this speed is the suspect society. Everyone is suspicious, and even depriving of suspicion is powerless at speed. Something's always hanging." [[Abg. Wabl: You have to tell the khol!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to ask you to consider and reconsider a word by Arthur Miller, who said: "Societies that are insecure and do not know the reason for their weakness fall into the trap of persecution." – Let's beware of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4005	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4027	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In one we are all certainly of the same opinion: Lassing, the affected population, must come to rest. But the question is: How is this important concern taken into account in the way in which such current hours are raised? Ladies and gentlemen! They're the changers among us! As you know, the lists of candidates are already being created in the Styria, and it is probably very difficult to run the "Steirische Leiberl". [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: It's the beating burgers on the way!]] But I tell you – and this is especially true of Mr Barmüller: Profiling on the back of citizens and victims has never worked and will not work this time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, an enormous amount of technical and technological weakness is softened. For example, the investigation of drill cores is required, which is impossible. There are no cores there because the drill simply needs to be removed with the rinsing. Technical nonsense associated with prophylaxis – this is not a good mixture! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I am glad that some of the liberal colleagues have done their job there, because they are used to putting their husband on the spot, and are not a desk culprits like some others sitting here. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Dear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! You said earlier that it would have been pleasant to be Mining Minister because there would have been no more accidents. This is not quite the case, as it is based on the number of accidents per hour worked, which has not been positive in recent years since 1990. On the contrary, there is a floating number of accidents at a relatively high level. And as far as the development of the mining sector is concerned, this is a very, very sad one. Compared to the year 1970, when there were still 437 active miners, there were only a few in 1994, namely 72, and this number fell further. And if you look into the Austrian Montan Manual, you see: Whole 17 lines deal with safety in the mountain world, while 7 pages deal with the honors. Dear Minister! I am sure that the proportions and the relations do not vote, but you have never kept it that exact with Parliament's information. But it will be an opportunity to come back to this tomorrow's debate on Lassing. Mr Klubobmann Khol actually hit the nail on his head when he said that Parliament had failed, and he almost enchanted a culprit out of the hat. But he will not seriously assume that someone in the population, who is half aware of parliamentarianism, will believe that against the will of the government groups, any draft will be presented in a committee and may even lead to a decision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know this from examples of a wealth of templates of opposition that disappear in the drawers. Ladies and gentlemen! Lassing's tragedy has many dimensions. On the one hand, there is the technical dimension where the questions need to be clarified: Has the geological situation been properly assessed? Have the preparatory work and the extraction technologies been properly chosen? On the other hand, there is the administrative dimension where it can be clarified: How has the administrative requirements been dealt with? How far are transactions approved afterwards and for good? And there is the political dimension, and in this respect I quote from a speech to the Council of Ministers on 30.10.1996 when it came to setting up crisis management when it came to defining emergency skills – even if due to another disaster. There was an overview of the long and broad criteria that must be met so that an event can be classified as a disaster. And these criteria clearly address the disaster of Lassing. What would have happened in accordance with this Council of Ministers decision? – I have come to the conclusion, Mr President, that a crisis management should have been set up, involving the countries, involving the social partners, involving the media, as it stands in it. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And the Federal Chancellor is responsible for this. Here, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the real failure of this government, at the head of the Federal Chancellor's office, lies. And I call for this responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4099	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4121	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can already imagine that the survivors of the victims often feel a political debate about this disaster as cynical. And it is therefore very difficult to lead them; that is true. But I think it is the summit of cynicism if we want to keep the disaster of these people as a shield of protection against political responsibility, legal responsibility. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I think this is particularly related to who it comes from and how it comes to be cynical. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Political change!]] – Mrs Colleague, this is at all the last thing if you are constantly talking about political change when someone advises political responsibility. I believe that the victims have a claim that political responsibility is clarified, that the victims have a right to have the sources of error clarified, that the victims have a right to think about how to avoid similar disasters in the future. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens]] You always talk about political change when it comes to your responsibility or the responsibility of your government members. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is an insult when the clubman here turns out to be a government group and says that Parliament has been sparse. This clubman sits down in the presidential loose, with the expression of the arrogance of power – this has nothing at all to do with majority relations – and says: [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language? That's unheard of!]] We have the majority! It is no longer even a matter of whether the opposition may even express a wish, it is no longer taken seriously. This has assumed an extent that I have not known in recent times. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Someone who only understands the two government groups for which the opposition no longer exists under "parliament" makes himself and says that Parliament has become sparse! I think that's cynicism. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: When Mrs. Schmidt speaks of "arrogance", she knows what she's talking about!]] I think that this is an insult to the victims when they are done in such a way. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It has been said a lot to which I would like to join, whether by Mr Oellinger or by Mr Langthaler. I do not need'my' Members now, if I may say so, to mention Thomas Barmüller, because I believe that he has often shown competence on this issue here. I even agree with Mr Nürnberger, because I do not want to judge for any party membership. But I think one should add another aspect, and that is the aspect on which – and I say that again – the victims are entitled, namely the system failure in the case of Lassing, in the case of Farnleitner – as always you want to call him. I see three points; although there are several but three points that seem to me to be particularly worth mentioning. The first concerns the Austrian system of decision-making structures. I recall a discussion that recently meant Commissioner Fischler that Austria's strength was that it was so small and therefore the decision could be made more flexible and faster. – This statement caused not only a laugh at the stage, but also in the plenary session, for it would be a strength if the decision-making structures in Austria were really aimed at it. But reality is different, and I would like to return to this system of decision-making structures. The second point is the Austrian understanding of ministerial responsibility, and the third point is the Austrian system of control. The understanding of ministerial responsibility is already a very Austrian one. If you say, Mr Federal Minister, that you have chosen the uncomfortable path, I cannot take it seriously, because then at least one of you would be expected: that you, whether you can decide it or not, do not have a role to play in doing so, so that the control instruments are set in motion, that once you make it clear that you consider a parliamentary investigation committee necessary. If you yourself say that you want to choose the uncomfortable way of taking responsibility, this would be expected. But I see it differently: I do not think you have chosen the uncomfortable way, but I think it is more convenient. The Belgian Minister of Justice has already mentioned Mrs Langthaler. There is also a German Interior Minister who has assumed responsibility for the action of his apparatus. In Austria it was the last city councillor Hofmann who resigned when the Reichsbrücke collapsed 20 years ago. We will talk tomorrow about the Court of Auditors' report on tollvignette. In this there are a number of points where you might already ask: Faith You really are still in a position to lead this ministry? – They do not hold any political responsibility; this is obviously the Austrian system. - That's one. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The second is the decision-making structures. I would like to comment on two points. On the one hand: Of course, a blockade has taken place by the social partners or by the non-conformity of the social partners. We have therefore postponed the Committee's meeting because it was obvious that the two would not agree and therefore the ILO agreement would not be ratified. This item will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers tomorrow. You see that by pressing the events you will only be able to put something on the agenda, and that there was no way to do so before. However, there is one more point – it is not just social partnership. There were two ministries here with different views. And I'm really wondering, How coordinated are these two,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4213	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4228	... that there is not a standstill if they do not coordinate? The third typical Austrian aspect is the system of control. Today we will discuss the establishment of an investigation committee and have the opportunity to question your Austrian parliamentary understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4261	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4283	Mr President. High house! Some findings on safety in the mining industry. If you look at the same statistics, you see: It is true that in Austria in 1997 we reached the lowest number of accidents in the mining industry for the third time in a row since there were records in the history of mining. - So much for it. There's nothing to beautify. Next point: The rate of accident frequency in mining fell by 42.6 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The leisure accidents?]] This does not help anything if a major accident actually happens, but it shows that it was a major concern for those involved – companies like authorities – to reduce this number. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: If you tarnish all of this as leisure accidents!]] I now turn to Mr Nürnberger. I also spoke to employees in Lassing yesterday – on a very informal level. I have to ask: How is it about the state of internal social security in some of Austria's establishments when such conditions can occur? We should work together, without imagining each other, to ensure that we finally bring together the reasonable completion of proper industrial social partnership with confidence, without pressure on statistics and without any speech arrangements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I can say to Mr Nürnberger: In my new authority, there will be a service order, which does not require a controlling without the involvement of local workers' representatives. – That is a priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: There has been so far!]] Second point: To the two houses I registered headlines in a newspaper yesterday. In Lassing, in the presence of the head of state, Klasnic and the mayor, a conversation was held on the question of whether two houses, which were called safe by the mining engineers, should also be torn down on rock. I said in this conversation: With regard to the state of spatial planning in the area, it would be reasonable not to take any more risks, but also to remove and rebuild these two houses on the basis of local spatial planning, which would be financed by the country. If Mr Mayor has not listened and passed on other information, that is his problem. I can only emphasize: I don't let anyone – neither here nor outside – put some untruths in my mind. It is not worth saying the untruth because of you or because of some mayor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: the new Mineral Raw Materials Act. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: I am glad that the running process continues!]] I think there will be enough time in the Committee to discuss the principles we are taking. I'll hold you once again. We separate fundamental minerals from sub-day degradation. In the future, the county's headquarters will be responsible for land-based degradation – now largely modo. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about Magnesit? Lex Admont!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – Magnesit is subject to under-thinking, at least under the control of mining. So it won't be cold if you want to ask me. Fourth point: There will be only one instance in the areas of mining, the mineral raw materials being mined. This will be located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it will be completely reorganised and built up. Fifth point: The parties of countries and communities will be created in the intensitys desired by these levels. Sixth point: In the future, a transport concept to be drawn up in agreement with all parties will be to be addressed at any time. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Right-wing?]] – Connection rights have already been regulated, but they are also included in this protection area. Seventh point: We are putting together a number of procedures to finally eliminate this historic cry about the extraction process and the mining process. Last point: All that is going on in the county headquarters is subject to the normal labour inspectorate, only in the case of mountain-free, state-owned and under-day mines that will be subject to the new authority. I emphasize: The somewhat ridiculous level of punishment of the mountain law is raised to a level, so that a certain preventive effect is associated with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4406	Thank you, Minister of State. I declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4430	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4538	In addition, the following templates have been received: Protocol to the Madrid Agreement on the International Registration of Trademarks, adopted in Madrid on 27 June 1989 in 1315 of the Supplements; and Amendment to the list in Annex I to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1399 of the Supplements. After consultation with members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to committees and to take them into account when drawing up the agenda for the next meetings. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4582	I inform you that according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the continued violations of human rights in the Czech Republic and Slovenia before the entry into the agenda for today's meeting, 4950/J by Mr Dr. Ofner and Mr Comrades. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be referred to the House at 3 p.m. Announcement of a deadline application
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4606	In addition, I say that Mr Oellinger has asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the application 504/A concerning a federal law amending the Karenz leave grant law and the Karenzgeldgesetz, a period of time until the 3rd time. ==References== In this context, there is also the request made by five Members, pursuant to Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on this request for deadlines. As the urgent debate on a written question has just been fixed, the short debate will take place following the urgent debate, the vote on the request for a time limit at the end of the debate on the same subject. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4633	On today's agenda, I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 1 to 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. It is therefore decided. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4658	We are now going into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate as follows: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. This proposal is to be dealt with in the plenary session. I therefore ask: On the other hand, are there any objections? – Since this is not the case, this is unanimously decided and defined. 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the request of Austria (1066/1402 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 564/A (E) by Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and Comrades concerning amendments to the objective of the EURATOM Treaty (1403 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 165/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the 1978 Nuclear Locking Act (1404 of Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 331/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the implementation of an offensive Austrian anti-atomic policy (1405 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 332/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the financing of nuclear power stations by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) (1406 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 354/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the implementation of an Austrian Anti-Temelin offensive (1407 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1357 of the Supplements): Nuclear Liability Act 1999 – AtomHG 1999 and on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Thomas Barmüller and comrades concerning the amendment of the Atomic Liability Act (1415 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4781	We now come to points 1 to 7 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. Does one of the rapporteurs want to report orally? This is not the case. Then we can go into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4811	Mr President. Revered Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the social-democratic government has set itself the goal – and it has always expressed it in the government declarations – of fighting for a nuclear power-free Central Europe, the number of nuclear power plants has increased in close proximity to Austria. This is a remarkable circumstance! With Mochovce, a power plant of the Uralty type WWER 440/213 has recently joined the network – despite 74 criticism points that have proved that this power plant is uncertain, for example, that the welds do not meet the requirements or that above all the protective cover of the containment is missing. The agreement that, when this power plant goes to the grid, the built-in and absolutely unsafe power plant in Bohunice is shut down was not held, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary: Siemens is currently further upgrading this plant in the value of more than 2 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! That is enough proof that the previous strategy of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Minister responsible and also the Minister for the Environment has not published the desired results. There have also been clear statements from the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Environment, both of whom have clearly recognized – at least from this statement – what to do. So I quote the Federal Chancellor who said: If an unsafe power plant goes into operation, this will have an impact on the European perspective of the country concerned. – As far as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is concerned. Mr Bartenstein, I can quote you: With the EU accession negotiations, we have a foothold in the door. So your statement, literally. I think you have actually realized that there must be a link between the application for admission to the European Union on the one hand and a binding exit from the use of nuclear power on the other. The trend in recent weeks has also looked forward to: For example, the Upper Austrian Parliament has been very intensive in dealing with this issue and has adopted an all-party proposal, which has also led us to meet with the representatives of the Upper Austrian Landtag Clubs here in Parliament and to discuss another common procedure which finally resulted in a joint motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Head: We brought it together too!]] This joint resolution calls on the Austrian Federal Government to demand a binding exit plan, otherwise there will be no consent from Austria to the EU accession of the Czech Republic and Slovakia countries concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only were we liberals and the Upper Austrian Landtag Clubs for this process, it was also the environmental associations – and they are still – for this procedure, as last documented at the meeting here in Parliament. The bigger, Karlheinz Kopf, was the surprise for me when first the ÖVP and then the SPÖ together with the Liberal step by step removed from this established procedure and got afraid of their own courage. The resolution of the government parties, which you have now mentioned, underlines once again the lack of courage of the Federal Government on nuclear issues: There can no longer be any talk about anti-atomic policy when it reads: The Federal Government is invited to use all possible means of implementing measures within the meaning of the common opposition to nuclear energy. Or: It is asked to insist on compliance with internationally recognised security principles. Or: It is asked to remind Slovakia of the possible closure of the Bohunice nuclear power plant. – Well, then we will'remember Slovakia' to close it to Bohunice. And on top of that – that's what beats the bottom of the barrel, my colleague, head: On the planned extension of the Dukovany nuclear mill and the re-submitted environmental documentation, the Federal Government is to deliver an opinion again. – Where are the teeth? – Toothless is no longer possible! This paper immediately ends up in the circular, whether in the Czech Republic or Slovakia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you yourselves are terrified when you realize how toothless that is what you have decided. You then have an addition shot in the intention of at least putting in a lazy tooth or a wack tooth. – And this lazy tooth or tooth is now: Austria is continuing to adopt significant safety concerns and the economic questioning of the project with a view to liberalising the European internal electricity market for the construction of the Temelin nuclear power station. – Austria stands for a construction stop. Fine! And what if not? – That is the crucial point, and this crucial point counts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] I know that this comes from the joint motion for a resolution, I already know, but what is... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Mr Oberhaidinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. – Austria stands for something. So what? Who cares about Slovakia, who is taking care of Austria in the Czech Republic to stop building? – This does not bother anyone in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! Big announcements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They were so important! The anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government will produce results; Climate has always been in the headlines, and everyone else has joined. That's what it looks like: Toothless. A lazy tooth is added. That's it, too. The results – I can tell you – are not taken seriously in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic. In this regard, Mrs Federal Minister, there is also a clear admission from your ministry: You wrote an interesting letter to Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer. In this letter, concerning the Commission's evaluation of the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant, in which no Austrian is represented, you state that Austria cannot bring its position as a presiding country here:... Austria cannot derive any special right to participation in this Commission solely from the current Presidency in the Council. – Well, Austria is border country, but Austria is not allowed to say so. Although we are affected, in Upper Austria the whole population is located near the nuclear power station. Well, we're not going to be allowed to talk. That's the way it is! Unfortunately! Then it goes on: We will be without prejudice to the fact that we must not allow ourselves to use all formal means of continuing our active nuclear energy policy. – What is this active nuclear energy policy, Mrs. Federal Minister? – I would have liked to hear that from you: How does the active anti-atomic policy of this Federal Government look? – You cannot accept these motions for resolutions as witnesses. In the end, we must respect national sovereignty in decisions on the construction and operation of nuclear installations – writes Mrs Prammer. – That's it! You must respect national sovereignty! You can't do anything! They have only one instrument, and this is the junkimization of the EU's accession to the countries concerned with the exit from nuclear energy. In my opinion, nothing underscores the helplessness of the Federal Government more than this letter. Climate, bowl, prammer, Bartenstein and how they all are called have apparently resigned, because they do not follow the announcements, although the chance is still very great. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! In these days, as you know, the Czech Foreign Minister is preparing a report on the external consequences of the completion of Temelins. – This report gives us a chance! If the Czech Foreign Minister has to note in this report that the Austrian Federal Government really wants to agree to the accession of the Eastern European countries to the European Union only if there is a corresponding exit plan with clear time sequences, then this will have its effect. This is the only chance we have left! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This junkim gives us a chance, everything else is forgave love. That is why we in the Liberals are going to bring in the motion for a resolution on junkimizing the exit from nuclear energy with a yes from Austria to the accession negotiations which Mrs Aumayr has already introduced to the committee today, in turn by Mrs Aumayr. Ladies and gentlemen! There must not be an EU accession to the Czech Republic and Slovakia for us liberals as long as unsafe nuclear power plants endanger the safety of the Austrian population as long as Bohunice continues to operate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals want binding exit concepts with clear deadlines – otherwise there is no Austrian Yes to accession!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4893	Mr Schweitzer! That was the announcement of an application? - Good. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Col. Aumayr will bring him in!]] The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e4923	Mrs. Federal Minister! My esteemed Minister of State! Mr President. High house! I think we agree that nuclear energy is an extremely risky technology, not least because it is rejected by all of us. Thank God also increases the consent to a further conviction, namely that nuclear energy is a potentially extremely expensive technology – perhaps not at the first moment, but certainly in the long term. We have agreed in Austria that the use of this technology is not compatible with the principle of sustainable development – never and never. Since the referendum in Austria against the commissioning of Zwentendorf and since the decision of the Nuclear Locking Act, Mr Schweitzer, there have also been no new projects at our borders, but only things that were already known at the time and have taken their progress. [[Abg. Wabl: How do you see this with the nuclear weapons?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, now in operation!]] However, there have been no new locations and no new themes since then. But since the decision of this law, since this referendum, Austria has pursued a very consistent anti-atomic policy with the aim – I still come to this point, Mr Wabl, let me have a little time – of achieving a nuclear-free central Europe. [[Abg. Wabl: Why did you claim the ban on nuclear warehousing and the ban on the transport of nuclear weapons?]] There has been a consensus in this House until recently between all five parties on this subject. Many initiatives by this House and also by the Federal Government at national, bilateral and international level – I only refer to the resolution of the National Council of July 1997 or the decision of the Federal Government of December 1997, which has been written together with environmental protection organisations – are certainly most evident in this intensive and consistent anti-atomic policy of Austria. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have once again dealt with this subject from the current occasion, due to various current events and also in the light of popular desire for a nuclear-free Austria. We have adopted a new resolution confirming and updating our position, which is essentially four strategic approaches. First approach: Reduction of the risk potential of border nuclear power plants for the Austrian population and prevention of additional installations. – It’s about the safety of Mochovce, it’s about Krško, it’s about the promised closure of Bohunice V1, it’s about preventing the expansion of the nuclear mill in Dukovany, and it’s about stopping the construction of Temelin. Second approach: Strengthen energy economic cooperation with the reform states, and this as a prerequisite for a relinquishing of these countries to nuclear energy. – The cooperation started with Slovakia must continue. The EU Commission must urgently stop providing funds for exit schemes without which we cannot demand an exit from these countries in a serious and serious way. Third approach: A further development of international law to safeguard the interests of the Austrian population. – We must push and stop our neighbouring countries from ratifying or signing the Espoo Convention in the field of cross-border environmental protection. The same applies to the Lugano Agreement on liability and compensation for nuclear accidents. Finally, as the fourth approach to this common anti-atomic policy – patience, colleague, patience, Mr Wabl – the serious and economic assessment of the consideration of all risks, i.e. the follow-up costs of the use of nuclear energy. [[Abg. Wabl: Nuclear weapons import and transit ban?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Is it coming?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Sure? All right, I'm still waiting!]] – The Czech Republic or its government must be most closely confronted with the construction stop for Temelin and with our safety concerns and in general with the economic questionability of this project – in conjunction with the corresponding exit scenarios. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Therefore, Mr Ellmauer, we will be bringing this request into line with our four-party resolution request, on the basis of an agreement of all four parties, and on this very point that the Federal Government – Mr Schweitzer – should now listen carefully! – it is requested to forward to the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs the Austrian position in view of the report to be drawn up by this end of the year 1998 on the external consequences of any commissioning of Temelin. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's the lazy tooth now!]] That is exactly what you have called for, namely to act on this report, and to show clearly what external consequences it would have. [[Abg. Aumayr: What does she have?]] I'm still coming to it! Actually, you should support our request immediately. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let's write it in, then I'll be there!]] But I'm still talking about your attitude. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer. It is extremely useful and useful to introduce this Austrian position not only bilaterally, but also within the framework of the EU enlargement process. However, FPÖ was the only group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which did not reach a consensus on this issue, and which calls for the amendment of the EU accession negotiations with a view to relinquishing the use of nuclear energy, but which other EU Member States have not yet renounced. Knowing that such an exit cannot be achieved in the short term in these countries, you have nevertheless prevented a five-party agreement, although you should be clear that this junkimation and the possible prevention of the accession of these countries to the EU would only lead to a weakening of the opportunities for these countries to exit from nuclear energy, but not to a rise of those opportunities because, at the end of the day, EU funds for these countries and their corresponding exit concepts would not be available. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I did not say "sofort", but "binding"!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This logic!]] This is the second part of our motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government not only to represent its position bilaterally, but also within the framework of the EU's enlargement process, in order to draw up binding nuclear exodus concepts and to create appropriate EU credit instruments. Mr Schweitzer, what more do you want? [[Abg. Wabl: What about nuclear weapons?]] This is the only sensible, serious and reasonable way, and we have chosen the other four parties – unfortunately without the FPÖ. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Kopf, you promised me something!]] On the four points of popular desire. The popular desire for a "Atom-free Austria" demands: "No nuclear weapons to/through Austria!" – We support this demand. [[Abg. Wabl: Then why don't you vote for inclusion in the Constitution?]] By the State Treaty, by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Atomic Weapons and, finally, by the Criminal Code, Mr. Wabl, such a stationing is already impossible in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Then why are you against a Constitutional Law?]] The second claim is: "No nuclear waste dumps in Austria!" – We support this demand. [[Abg. Wabl: We will see whether you agree to the motion for a resolution today!]] The regulation on the movement of radioactive waste and also the provisions of the Criminal Code, i.e. applicable legal provisions, prevent this from already happening today. Third point: "No nuclear transport through Austria!" [[Abg. Wabl: But the bowl wants the weapons to be transported!]] . We have also included in our resolution with the votes of your group, including your vote, Mr Wabl, the call to the Federal Government that the working group already active, consisting of the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior, should proceed quickly and complete its work in order to solve the issue of nuclear transport satisfactorily and adequately. That's on its way! Fourth point: "No nuclear power plants in Austria!" – Which is more credible Evidence of the fact that we have not only supported this demand but already implemented it could be seen as the non-commitment of Zwentendorf and the existing nuclear blockage law! [[Abg. Wabl: That's right!]] So this point is already fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We fought hard for this and were observed for years by the army news service!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We did not always think in the Committee about the ways in which we can reach the common goal of a nuclear-free Central Europe. We have been discussing this for a long time, and four parties have found a way to a resolution confirming this position (a) and (b) to expand and update it on current issues. This path was characterized by an exhilaration of all the real – that was underlined – possibilities, from the point of view for the feasible and, above all, of seriosity. This serious path has finally been thanked to God by four parties, the FPÖ has, unfortunately, diverted once again from this path into the dead end of populism!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5238	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5259	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The agenda items that have been summarized are comprehensive, so I would like to focus on the Atomic Liability Act. My colleague, Mr Barmüller, will comment on other aspects that are being discussed today. In my opinion, however, we should use this debate as an opportunity to increase the impact of the anti-atomic policy rather than to divide us on this issue. That is why I would prefer a five-party resolution request rather than a four-party resolution request. To the Atomic Liability Act: I believe that this proposal will make a really significant progress and the Liberal Group welcomes the fact that, at the initiative of my colleague Mr Barmüller, it has already made a comprehensive request for this in the autumn of 1997. We are very pleased that some of the considerations that have been made in this proposal are also reflected in the government template which is now being adopted, in particular the paradigm change in the area of liability, which is under the heading "channelisation" or "absorbing this canalization". This decision, which is likely to take place today, should be taken to refer to the paradigm change in continental European nuclear liability rights, while at the same time inviting the Federal Government to make this principle, which we have now developed, every opportunity to discuss with the Members of the European Union. The departure from the principle of canalization is a quantum leap in the pursuit of cost-truth in the production of electricity by nuclear splitting. In the United States, due to the different legal architecture, we were told that, if liability issues have to be taken seriously by operators, investments in such plants, such as nuclear power plants, will no longer be made at all. In my opinion, this method of enabling, speeding up and implementing an exit should not be disputed with all people, even with those who may still be of the stubborn opinion, it is nevertheless an advanced and harmless technology. I consider this economic approach to the reduction of indirect subsidies and the cost-effectiveness of the abolition of the principle of channelling to be essential and at the heart of the new Atomic Liability Act. I am aware that we will not be able to obtain any general international popularity and that, in particular, the Federal Republic of Germany is facing a major test on this issue. Whether the canalization will be abolished in Germany in the short term, as far as possible tomorrow, is the real question of the Gretchen for the future government and not the question of the exit and its speed. The fact that it is necessary to get out of the way has generally spoken, even the majority of the population is now in favour. [[Abg. Wabl: The Freemans, too?]] Only, some thick people still believe that this can be extended. - The sentence: I'm in favour of pulling things into the length! Unfortunately, it can be applied to many topics. But the question whether the Federal Republic of Germany will adopt a nuclear liability law in the next few weeks and months, in which the canalization will also start, will be the Gretchen question for the next government in Germany. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I mean to say that from this speaker's point of view so that it cannot be disputed later, because I have doubts as to whether this act of violence will succeed in Germany. It will be exciting to see who will prevail in the formation of government in the Federal Republic of Germany: the SPD, which is likely to have its difficulties with the abolition of canalization, or the Greens who have no doubt no difficulty in abolishing the canalization. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think this is more important than some, for that is the proof of truth for the sincerity of nuclear matters. Today, by adopting the new Atomic Liability Act, we are going to take this proof of truth and prove that what we have said is taken so seriously by us that we also draw from it the legal and economic consequences and formulate framework conditions that allow for cost-effectiveness in this area. However, I have a small amendment to improve it, and I hope that this amendment will find a majority. We already had the opportunity to talk about it in committee. This is § 25 and its para. 1 which deals with those who, contrary to the statutory obligation, do not take out liability insurance, in particular in the case of transports of substances covered by the provisions of this Act. We believe that this § 25 para. 1 must be supplemented. I shall now present the amendment to the Government's proposal, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We had the opportunity in the Committee to discuss this. I believe that the possibility of an unfair means of transport will have a much greater dissuasive effect than simply the possibility of having to purchase an administrative penalty of 500 000 S, because if someone transports unfairly, he will start a calculation and consider: How high is the risk of being punished, and when I am punished, this penalty is covered in my operating result: yes or no? – However, if he is in danger of losing the transporter, the temptation not to complete liability insurance is much lower. I think that this amendment should be a majority. So I come to the end and appeal again to all the colleagues in this house: You, too, if you have to argue in the field of the nuclear industry, make use of the argument that a country that has not abolished the existing canalization in liability law is not a country of which we can seriously believe that it has really decided to exit from nuclear energy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5332	The amendment to § 25 para. 1 of the government template in question has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can stress much of what my previous speaker, Mr Kier, said here. I do not wish to give an opinion on the statements or on the debate by Mr Schweitzer in so far as many of them are already speaking for themselves, such as the accusation that, at the time of the decision to withdraw from nuclear energy in Austria, nuclear power plants had been established in the context of Austria's nuclear power plants. If this is raised as an accusation to the government, then I am no longer quite sure whether one really wants to be taken seriously with such argumentation here. [[Abg. Böhacker: He just said what happened!]] I am not aware of the fact that a serious debate on the motion for a resolution, which concerns the Czech Republic, has not really taken place, because it is totally unrealistic to demand things in Cowboymanier, which everyone knows quite clearly about foreign policy that they are totally impossible. I therefore distance myself from dealing with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, I think it must be said that a great deal has been done recently, both within and for the European area. The Austrian Government's anti-atomic power plant policy has exerted significant influence within Europe with regard to the overall position on nuclear power, influence on questioning the situation, and ultimately also on the design within the programmes. I can point to that in the 5th century. The EU framework programme has achieved clear success by reducing the resources allocated to nuclear power plants for research, and by restructuring within this budget as a whole, to a greater extent than the expansion of nuclear power plants as a whole. The rest of these financial resources, which have been restricted, are now available to research and develop renewable energy forms. In my opinion, it is only through this that I believe that there has been a very significant change, a change in quality within Europe, which is also a success of the Austrian Government. Of course, you can ignore that, or you can express it self-confidently. I think we should do the second. One of the key points of a credible argument within Europe is, of course, the way in which one chooses in one's own field. There is something we have to discuss today and, I hope, will also decide – this is evidenced by the fact that we voted unanimously in committee. There is now the new liability right, the national liability law. We have deliberately decoupled ourselves from international development through the draft which is under discussion today. We have decoupled ourselves in so far as we also wanted to create direction-setting new regulations here. I can count it on my party that, under the leadership of the clubman Kostelka and the accession of a university professor from Graz, we have drawn up a draft that goes completely new ways – new paths which have often been called, but which are now quite slow to prove right, especially if one sets out in the international discussion demands that one has to submit with one's own credibility. The central provision of the new nuclear liability right is the unlimited, strict liability. This means that there is no liability limit in the liability right for installations up to now, as has been done and as is provided for in the International Liability Convention, and there is a strict liability, i.e. there is also liability in the event of force majeure. The justification for this is that the person who builds or causes such a source of danger will ultimately also have to deal with all the consequences that this source of danger may produce. This is, of course, also a damage within the plant in the event of force majeure, which subsequently causes damage to the environment. Another important step is that in the future it will also be possible, in the event of damage resulting from a nuclear power plant outside Austria, which will, however, be effective in Austria, to also claim compensation in Austria at the place where the damage actually occurred, according to the law of the place in which the damage was caused, according to Austrian law. Of course, the discussion has gone so far as to say: What can one really do with such a judgment? What can one do with a judgment that standardises claims for damages, for example in Slovakia, if this judgment may not be enforceable there? I accept that this objection is currently having its correctness and is challenging the issue. I also think, however, that on the other hand, one cannot overlook the fact that we have to look at the development in nuclear liability in the overall context of historical development and also of future development. In this spectrum, it is very easy to raise demands. The claim for a cross-border liability – after the claim for damages where the damage was incurred, and without forcing the injured, going abroad and suing the damage there – is simply a new quality of enforcement. I think this is a quality of enforcement that will enable us to enforce liability law in international discussions. We will be able to enforce it all the easier, and we will be able to demonstrate the possibility and the quality of this new system of liability as we can point out that we have already implemented it in our own country. Therefore, I believe that even if it can still be a long and difficult way to implement it, it is simply necessary to go in this direction. We have also removed the so-called canalization of liability – which Mr Kier has already suggested today. What that means is simple: Until now, the operator of the power plant had to be held liable, but not the supplier of components of the power plant. It may, of course, be the case that, in the end, a supplied component was the cause of a damage. Now it is absolutely impossible to see why, in the case where there is a power plant beyond the border and a supplier on this side of the border, I should not be able to contact the suppliers, just as the ordinary compensation regulations of the Civil Code provide for. It has so far been a derogation that should benefit nuclear power plant operators and nuclear power plant suppliers, especially the latter. The point was that one said in the origins: This is a new technology, which is particularly to be protected, and therefore the subcontractors should not be held liable. There is no longer any reason for such a scheme at all, and the opposite is the case: Such liability arrangements should also enable suppliers of components to know and calculate that they can be held liable at any time. I should like to point out – and this was also discussed in the Committee – what happens if delivery was not from Austria, but, for example, from Germany. In the pan-European area, there is a convention, a rule – the Lugano agreement – to enforce judgments that have been reached here. This means that a judgment of damages in Austria can also be enforced within Europe as a whole. It will be the responsibility of the Government to ensure that the Lugano Agreement not only joins the European countries but also the neighbouring countries, because we will be able to make it easier to implement what we are going to decide here today in these countries in the context of an execution procedure and because it will show that the way we have begun to take is the right one for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5398	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5419	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that the policy of the government in implementing already adopted standards is just as late as the nuclear debate is currently taking place here, in these series. Now is half-time, now it is up to us to set up an interim settlement of nuclear policy under chancellor climate. Now it's time to find out: When was the zenith reached, and then how did the descent begin, how did the cancellation take place? The Zenit was called: Five-party decision on 9 July. ==References== This opened up a whole compendium of possibilities for an active, progressive, and committed Austrian nuclear policy, which really deserves the predicate "stepper". What's left of it? There was already a great incident in the following August, and nuclear transports to the very dangerous Krško power plant were carried out through Austria. This has not been known before: The customs stations were not informed, the Gendarmerie was uninformed, there was practically a fiasco in the accompaniment and control of nuclear transports. Nuclear transport was also a subject of popular desire, and what did Mr Schlögl promise in response to it? – Immediate measures, an immediate general ban! Paragraph 1 of the five-party decision in July 1997 was therefore that this promise by the Minister of the Interior has not been fulfilled to date. To date, there is still a lack of internal Austrian activities, and to date the European and international activities of Austria are still lacking in order to prevent nuclear transport through our country or to take appropriate accompanying measures. - As far as the first indent. Second indent: It follows from autumn and negotiations with NGOs on a so-called package of measures which will subsequently lead to a Council of Ministers decision in December. This package no longer includes all the important points which were fixed in July: There is no longer any point in trying to amend the EURATOM Treaty. No further mention is made of the need for the creation of EU financial instruments for nuclear decommissioning in Eastern Europe. No more talk about the need to act against the new Euro reactor. No more talk of the need for the use of international instruments against nuclear power stations in our immediate environment. It is also no longer a question in this package of measures that funding for non-nuclear projects at European level needs to be increased. This package of measures already shows a lack of meaning, it already shows how the zenith of the July decision has declined in a row and threatens to slow down. Next paragraph: We are already at the turn of the year, and we have a discussion on whether the freedom of nuclear weapons of Austria should be raised in constitutional order. We have advances from the SPÖ, from the coalition partner, with concrete drafts to a Constitutional Act, and we have the blockade on the part of the ÖVP. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have learned exactly the background to this ÖVP blockade. Today, Mr Kopf has once again pointed out that the EIA does not consider it necessary to put Austria's nuclear freedom priority in a constitutional position. And why? – Brigadier Plasche has noted very well in the Committee on the Environment that the constitutional anchoring of this pass – I quote literally from memory – would be an equally high barrier to Austria’s entry into NATO as the maintenance of neutrality. That makes it clear: We also have cut-offs from the July 1997 course in the field of nuclear weapons. The nuclear weapons sector in particular is, however, a very central area, which is definitely borne by the entire population and which is in itself carried by all parties. There is only one party that makes small cancellations and prevents the final anchorage, and that is the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! They should make Austria a model country, a real pioneer in the sense of the government declaration "Atom Weapons-free Central Europe". You are blocking, blocking your group, so to speak, the NATO skulls of the ÖVP prevent a constitutional determination. . So much for the third indent, as for the third break-in against the July 1997 agreement. The fourth area: We have already held a very detailed nuclear debate here with special meetings and with urgent inquiries to Dukovany and to Mochovce. The background for this was clearly the defensive Austrian nuclear policy in these two cases between 1995 and 1998. It has already been clear in the course of the year that Mečiar will not be removed from his plan in Slovakia. It would have been at this time – I emphasize: quite specifically at this time – high in time for the Foreign Minister to come up with the plan. When did Foreign Minister Schüssel start EU contacts to fight Mochovce? When was that? – A request response attested: It was in April/May 1998. It was far too late. In this respect, the fourth intrusion – in the case of Mochovce, in the case of Dukovany – is to be observed against the Zenit of Austrian nuclear policy in July 1997. Let me now come to a concrete second threat scenario at the border with Austria: Temelin. In relation to this, a fifth breakdown is now beginning. Mr Prammer! You are now – I think tomorrow or the day after – going to Prague. I would ask you to conduct the negotiations with a view to halting the construction process! It can only go towards construction stop and exit. Safety debates may open up needs for Temelin where none are available. There is no intention at European level to establish a European security standard, but there is only the intention of establishing criteria. I quote François Ruel, an atomic expert from Directorate-General XI in Brussels, who said: "There will be no directive setting minimum safety standards for nuclear power plants, at least in the medium term. Because the Member States do not want that." Please leave the security question completely away! Taxation You clearly only the course: Construction stop, exit and offensive offer of alternative energy scenarios! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the only way we can finally bring Temelin's already dying nuclear power station out of the nuclear debate. This is the only way we can achieve a construction stop, for which the opportunities are very favourable. The increase in costs was massive, it is not calculated economically, with the missing millions, at least one and a half times as much energy can be provided at the gas steam power station level as by Temelin himself. These are factual arguments, which are also repeatedly put on the table by Czech experts. Take up these arguments, and also present these arguments in your negotiations! Temelin is a former power plant that has irreparable safety defects. What are the benefits of safety standards that Temelin can never achieve? – The shortcomings are so obvious and so massive that any security debate is completely wrong in place. – In so far as the fifth break-in against the situation in July 1997. However, there are now especially with regard to temelin and also with regard to mochovce due to the new differences in Germany, due to the results of the election of 27. September, opportunities to make a close with the new German government, which will direct another nuclear policy course. In this direction, we must push forward quite offensively. It is now a command of the hour that German Chancellor Climate immediately opens talks to develop real exit scenarios with Germany, so that this large EU state, this large G-7 state, is drawing a line with us in terms of the enlargement of the East. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These would be very concrete proposals, which would now have to be implemented due to the changed German situation and which should also be voted here. Finally, let me make a few comments on the work in the Committee on Atomic Energy. This is, as it were, the sixth indent of the Zenit of Austrian nuclear policy in July. This sixth indent has three, four facets, which are very significant in themselves and speak a very clear language. First: Four times the issue of "people's desire" had to be put on the agenda. Secondly, the visit to the Upper Austrian countryside. Although a delegation from the Upper Austrian Landing Day was received, the demands made in the context of this visit were not received in the first draft of this resolution today. It was not until the last meeting of the Committee of the Regions, held on 24 May. In September, by interrupting the session, it was hard to see that at least three points of the Upper Austrian Parliament were included in this resolution. Next point: The five-party consensus on temelin was possible only at the last meeting of the Committee, also by a break in meetings. The submissions by the government parties were relatively weak, practically non-concrete and did not include the actual fires of nuclear policy. This gave me a clear understanding, namely that the statements of July are still valid, but rather slowly to start soft and are disposed of in a discrepancy. We are at risk of slowly subservienting some dubious EU criteria to Austrian anti-atomic policies both in the arms sector and in the civil field. This is the wrong way for me, especially in view of the Presidency. My colleague, Langthaler, will particularly highlight the opportunities that the EU Presidency holds for 12 months. Finally, I would like to point out that the nuclear liability law as a whole is certainly a flashlight in Austrian nuclear policy. This flashlight, this quantum leap, unfortunately also brings with it some advertising drops. – More details later. Mrs. Minister! Please use the opportunity now to realize what is still possible in the matter of temelin. The end of the presidency is, as it were, the end of the chance that we can act very offensively. Please don't wait until 32. December 1998! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5562	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. It has now become Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5587	Mr President. My precious colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Moser, you have just talked about a slumbered nuclear policy and a sleepy debate. Allow me to say that I cannot follow that. I believe that if a nuclear debate and the treatment of an anti-Atom people's desire in an at least four-party resolution request find its at least provisional, parliamentary conclusion today, this is another success for Austria's essentially closed policy in this area. There is, therefore, a necessary restriction because, I think, a painful loss, the liberal opposition suddenly fails to be able to contribute to Austria's previously closed anti-atomic policy. It is therefore no longer in a position to do so, because, I believe, with a view to making short-term and populist political little money aimed at the success of the moment, for anyone who calls for a veto of Austria – and nothing else demands the liberals, nothing else has asked Mr Schweitzer today as a Member and first speaker – towards Slovakia or the Czech Republic in view of their intention to join the European Union, he acts populistly. That's not professional, that's amateur, that's not realistic, that's naïve, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true, Mr Schweitzer – he is back in the hall – that I have said that Austria has a foothold in the EU negotiations on the safety of nuclear power stations close to the border. That's right. Especially in the last few days, there has been a very encouraging demonstration of what the efforts of the entire Federal Government, but in particular of our Foreign Minister, have brought as EU Council Presidents in recent months. Foreign Minister Schüssel raised the issue of Mochovce in the General Council in May this year. As a result, the Commission did not take a clear position towards Mochovce, but towards other important and very annoying nuclear power plants in its Communication on Environment and Enlargement. So this is the basic paper on the basis of which enlargement talks with the first six countries are likely to begin in the next few weeks following the Council's decision of yesterday. For example, it formulated that due to the assurance of Bulgaria – meaning Kozloduj – and Lithuania – Ignalina – is meant to close their horrendous unsafe facilities, corresponding nuclear safety accounts must be respected with the EBRD. Now, although it has not made any international commitment, Slovakia is facing similar challenges, and it has to stop two reactors. It is painful that Mochovce has gone to the net, which is still bothering us. But that is at least the foot in the door to demand the closure of the two old reactors in Bohunice, which really cannot be accepted. That's the foot in the door I've been talking about. ==References== A Council decision on the adoption of these communications was adopted on September. This is very likely also with a success of Austrian politics in this relationship and also a success of our anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true that no binding commitments from Slovakia exist in this direction. There is a statement by the Slovak Government of 1994 at that time. There is a statement by the German side as to the guarantees of the Hermes bank, which were secured by Germany, which expressed very probably the expectation that the Slovak side would have explained that if Mochovce went to the network, Bohunice would have to shut down. But it is certainly the strongest weapon in our hand to demand and demand the closure of the two – allow me to use this expression – "screw tractors" in Bohunice. That's the foot in the door I talked about. But what you want, that is a general veto, so according to the motto, only those countries in the European Union that meet our wish to shut down all their nuclear power plants is – as I repeat – not realistically, is not professional. You really prove that from foreign policy you have little to no idea. What we can realistically do is ask for security measures, which are also expressly formulated in this Commission communication. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I quote literally: We must demand that nuclear power plants comply with the general safety standard for energy production within the European Union. – We can demand that, and we have done so, and we will continue to do so. The Federal Government was closed. Mrs Prammer, but also Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Foreign Minister have no doubt about it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that Mrs Prammer will still refer to her initiatives in the Czech Republic and report to Parliament. It is, I believe, at least a chance that there will be a fresh start with new governments in both the Czech Republic and Slovakia. This is not a guarantee that these countries will take a different position, but at least a possibility. Exploratory talks in Prague Introduce more closely. As far as Slovakia is concerned, we will now have to wait for the new Slovak government to have a more open ear with regard to Mochovce and with regard to our safety concerns than the previous one. It can hardly be more closed. Especially in Slovakia, I believe that it can almost only turn to the better. Minister Prammer and I have turned to the Commission in the Temelin case after the Austrian request for the nomination of an Austrian expert in this Commission by the Czech side. We have now received a letter from there, which at least takes due account of the representation of our interests in an appropriate manner. I also think that this is an encouraging development. At the end of my remarks, let me say a few words about nuclear liability law decided on today. I am very close to Mr Jarolim, who has also presented the content very clearly. I might want to say it a little more clearly: It is precisely this channel of liability, which honourable Member Jarolim has historically established – which is understandable – that is a clear privilege of an industrial sector, namely the nuclear industry. And that is not to be justified. The automotive industry and other industrial sectors do not enjoy this privilege. This cannot be justified especially in a country such as Austria, which has also made a lasting commitment to the peaceful use of nuclear energy. However, it is against the fact that Austria – and this is not a secret matter here – is making a single entrance, but we are conscious of it. It is not certain to what extent Austrian judgments must be enforced abroad, especially in Ukraine or elsewhere, but we are going this way because we think it is the right way. At the same time, however, we say that the road will only be sustainablely successful if we get substantial competitors beyond Luxembourg and Ireland, who do not know this channel of liability either. It is, of course, essential that Italy has already said: We are getting out of nuclear energy, we are getting out of the peaceful use of nuclear energy!, and in Germany the current coalition negotiations between red and green, among other things, have to do with this. [[Abg. Aumayr: Do you have to have your colleague Prammer negotiate?]] But let me warn you: I will then analyse this situation when the coalition negotiations are concluded. We are talking about Germany's exit scenarios when Mr Schröder and his colleague, Fischer, have become one of the Greens. Now it would be premature, and the Austrian Parliament is probably the wrong place for discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that with this right of nuclear liability, we are taking a new path, a courageous path, a path that leads to the future with which we are making the most of the current situation, but which, at the same time, we have built up a series of suspensions that secure the economic location of Austria and that this right of nuclear liability does not, for example, create an indirect threat to Austrian jobs. This was also a concern of all of us during the negotiations, but also of the Committee, and I believe that this concern has been taken into account accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5646	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Fekter, you will now come to the floor. – 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5671	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to refer to item 7 of the agenda, namely the new nuclear liability law that Minister Bartenstein has just referred to. We continue with this law the independent nuclear policy, the independent Austrian path. This independent Austrian way closes us the pots for international compensation claims. That is, after the canalization has been mentioned: We do not use them, we do not sign these international agreements and therefore we cannot take part in the international pots in the event of damage. We have therefore taken this up knowingly, because these international agreements – there are several with the additional protocols – for radiation damage and the solutions for compensation from our point of view are not really efficient and these pots are not sufficiently taught. I would, however, like to make it clear that the emphasis is not yet sufficiently efficient and insufficient. If the international Community scheme is to be significantly improved, in particular with regard to a sufficient amount of coverage, then of course we need to debate it again in this House and consider what might be more useful to the Austrian injured: the independent Austrian path or the international solidarity community. The current law provides for an amount of unlimited liability for liability. In other words, it is by no means limited in the amount, but we have standardized an insurance scheme with a minimum amount of coverage for nuclear plant operators in the amount of 5.6 billion schilling. Assigned: In Austria, there will be no nuclear plant as a power plant, as a nuclear power plant, and foreign operators of power plants that may cause damage in our neighboring area, which will then lead to damage in Austria, we cannot, by this law, undertake to take out insurance in our sense. However, we have standardised that complaints against foreign operators can very well be filed in Austria and that foreign operators in Austria are sued under Austrian law – with Austrian courts. Subsidiary can also be used in the event of damage to suppliers, e.g. if companies located in Austria have supplied to nuclear power plants in our neighborhood and the damage cases have caused causally. Due to the particular danger of nuclear material, its preparation, transport and use for research and medical purposes, the liability has been highly normized – further than is provided for in the general ABGB provisions. We accept this for this particular area of danger. The nuclear danger and the liability it lays down justify this. However, it is primarily the ABGB. In addition to the principle of indebtedness and the principles of compensation of the ABGB, however, evidence is normized for those affected by radiation in the Atomic Liability Act, namely certain assumptions, so that the injured person can more easily represent the causality. We have also included environmental damage in the same way as in the Code of Liability. For precisely these two areas – the Code of Liability and the Atomic Liability Act – are not really projectable in their danger dimension from today's point of view. Therefore, in both cases it warrants its own liability legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It remains to be hoped, however, that the case of urgency for this law does not occur, and there may be few to no application for this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5726	Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayr has now come to speak. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5747	Mr President. Dear Mr. Minster! Mrs. Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein speaks to the Abg. Smolle.]] Is it possible for you to conduct these discussions after the end of the debate? – I ask that this command fairness. [[Abg. Smolle: Dear Mrs. Colleague! I can still say goodbye!]] Federal Minister Bartenstein! You have pointed out to Mr Schweitzer that he has no idea of foreign policy because the liberals insist on this junkimation. I would like to read to you the first part of our motion for a resolution: The Austrian Federal Government is invited to demand the following steps from the neighbouring countries seeking EU accession. – "To demand" and "to demand"! The first point is: "The Federal Government may make its consent to further EU integration steps of the candidate CEEC countries dependent on the binding definition of nuclear power generation programmes within the meaning of an existing decision of the European Parliament. At the same time, financial resources should be made available at EU level for the implementation of these programmes." Federal Minister! This motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Upper Austrian Parliament – with the votes of the head of state of Upper Austria and the Council of State of Leitl. That is, all members of the ÖVP and members of the government have taken part in this request, of which you are now saying – we liberals are making the same request –: Whoever demands such a thing has no idea of foreign policy! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Federal Minister! You'll be giving your party colleagues a bad witness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I don't understand the following: Austria now, if this coalition were to act at last and not always talk, would actually have a very big chance. As an Austrian and as an Austrian politician, we have the credibility to demand the exit from nuclear power, because Austria shows that an energy policy is feasible without this dangerous technology. Austria has never entered this technology thanks to the wisdom of the Austrian population – not thanks to the politicians, for they have demanded it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You are also a politician!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That was self-criticism!]] – No, Minister of State! That was no self-criticism, because I was not a politician at the time, but I was already opposed to nuclear power plants in Austria, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Do you know what's incomprehensible? – It is now the right time to go this way. This one's not coming anymore. Now we have this opportunity, but only with a request that actually has substance, and not with a soft motion for a resolution with which the four parties have come. We also have the duty to protect Austria from damage, Mr. Federal Minister! The nuclear power plants on Austria's borders are a major danger. We all know that, including Mr Oberhaidinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] But there is only one clear attitude, and this is to demand the exit from nuclear power now. Only a mandatory exit scenario saves us from these dangers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even the nuclear expert from Upper Austria, Mr Pavlovec, says that if we do not benefit from this opportunity now, we will grant 80 to 90 percent of the chance potential to achieve it, Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, that's what Dr. Pavlovec says. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The opportunity now exists in the Czech Republic, at Temelin, all nuclear power plants in the candidate countries... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I'll give you the right!]] But there is no other way, Mr. Federal Minister! You know that very well. It is only with speeches, as we have done before, or as the Federal Minister has said, that we will have talks or look at the introduction of at least Western security standards, that we will not achieve anything. Mrs. Federal Minister! This Western security standard did not exist in the past, it is not defined now and, as Mrs Moser said earlier, it will not be defined in the future. Mrs Prammer! If you are about to drive to Prague and demand a western security standard from the Czechs and the Czechs ask you if you can define what that is, then blaming You can't define him because he's not there, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You are primarily my contact person, because Mrs Prammer is no longer credible to me, but I believe in you that there is at least a political will. Federal Minister! They praised the Constitution. You have promised that you will keep damage away from the Austrian population – and me too. [[Abg. Ellwall: You too!]] I am in favour of this promise, but I would like you to do the same, and the Austrians have a right to do so. [[Abg. Head: He does that every day!]] Federal Minister! I'm appealing to They are not only the Minister of the Environment, but also the father of five children. What do you tell your children when there is a crash – he doesn't need to have those dimensions like Chernobyl – when they ask you: Why didn't you stop that at the time? Why didn't you stop these power plants from ever going to the grid? What do you say to your children, Mr. Federal Minister, and what do you say to the Austrian people? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I think you should take advantage of this opportunity alone because of your children. On behalf of my colleagues, I should like to say the following: He accused us of leaving the way of consensus. There has always been a five-party request in this matter. That is true, but, Mr Kopf, we liberals will not agree with any political parties that are at risk of the safety and health of the Austrian population. This way the liberals do not go, and you will have to get used to it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I would like to say something about the Atomic Liability Act: The Freeman agrees with the Atomic Liability Act, but some criticisms should be made. The implementation of this law is only possible on and on its own, if a second step is taken, with bilateral contracts, because now it is the case that liability is an increased minimum liability and that there is a need for proof and information, but it is still the case that enforcement is only possible if foreign assets are in Austria so that the amount of damage is so to speak covered. That is, if there is a crisis in the Czech Republic, we cannot implement this law because these bilateral treaties do not exist. For this reason, this nuclear liability law should now take a second step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5921	Mrs Aumayr! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled a motion for a resolution on further action by the Federal Government in relation to the anti-atomic line. You have read the first point of this motion for a resolution, which contains four points. [[Abg. Aumayr: Come on!]] I can only include this motion for a resolution in the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when all the points have been read. But I would point out that reading of motions for resolutions in portions certainly does not correspond to the meaning and not to the wording of the Rules of Procedure. So I would ask you to stick to it in the future. The next item is Mrs Huber's speech. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e5964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This nuclear liability law, which we now have to deal with, is, I think, a very "bright" signal to the other states, because it is very much based on the principle of the fundamental promotion of the nuclear economy, because it also, I think, provides a liability for higher violence and because it does not provide any limits of liability. Another "bright" signal is the departure from the canalization of this liability, and I think it is a milestone. Not only the operator of a nuclear plant can be used for replacement claims, but, if it appears more successful, also the assembly company or the company carrying out the transports. In principle – and this is also a significant progress in the enforcement of liability claims – an Austrian court can be called upon. Of course – and this is already true today – we are aware that the enforcement of an Austrian title to States with which there is no enforcement agreement is not guaranteed. We therefore strongly demand a cross-border liability, and the motion for a resolution also aims to ensure that the Federal Government takes action in this regard. It is very important for the practical enforcement of claims for damages by those concerned to be the established burden of proof. Thus, in the case of a human condition where it is likely that his body was exposed to ionising radiation from a nuclear plant or from nuclear material, the operation now has the proof that this radiation was not relevant to the disease, and not the ill if he wishes to assert his claims. – Austria is therefore taking a new path with this Atomic Liability Act, in principle with regard to the enforcement of claims for damages. A word to colleagues' head, which I no longer see in the hall. He has very vehemently demanded a nuclear ban law. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: He's sitting here! There he sits!]] That's from the old clothes collection. – For this, you have us social democrats right away. They have called for the anchoring of nuclear power plants in the Constitution very vehemently. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, na, constitutional air fires don't want the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Head: I don't have it! It's for reading!]] - Then I misunderstand you. Good. In principle, we would have nothing to do with such an anchoring in the Constitution, but in addition to the power plants, nuclear weapons, both their stationation and their transit and transport, would have to be included. I think that nuclear weapons are much more dangerous than nuclear power stations. With regard to the present nuclear liability law, I would like to say that Austria is actually alive, as we imagine internationally, such a right of liability. There are already six countries across Europe that do not want to use nuclear energy peacefully. We want the number of such countries to increase. Perhaps this right of liability in Austria, which is to be decided on as an example for the other European countries, can be an incentive for economic pressure to be generated, for investment in nuclear power plants to be stopped, and therefore the abolition of the use of nuclear energy in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6026	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6048	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! It is undisputed - and I can only add to what Mr Kier has already said - that the new Atomic Liability Act has a model character, and I hope it will also find imitation. In this respect, it would certainly be an uninteresting thing for any government negotiations in Germany to take this law as an example. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the central point of an exit from the peaceful use of nuclear power can only be about the rules of liability and the accounting of the real costs. This ensures that this technology does not have a long-term survival in a free market. On the resolution which is attached to the Nuclear Liability Act, which will be voted here today and which also supports the Liberals, I would like to make it clear that, if solutions are to be adopted through international funds, they will help to cover damage. This cannot and does not mean that there is a "healing" of national liability rules, but that is only an additional form of insurance and damage coverage until there are corresponding liability schemes in all countries. It is also intended to ensure that, if damage occurs, these can also be reimbursed. The fact that this is a different form of insurance already recognises that contributions to such a fund must be made. It is also possible to count some of the real costs on these technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain why the Liberals do not believe that there should be a junkification between the exit of the Eastern and Central European countries from the use of nuclear power and their accession to the EU. On the one hand, in the enlargement of the EU, we see a much larger political project, which cannot only be limited to the use of nuclear power. We are convinced that, although European integration must ultimately lead to a global exit from the use of nuclear power, when it comes to including the Eastern and Central European countries in the EU, it is more sensible to submit them to European regulations than to leave them alone with what they currently have and not allow for integration. We are convinced that the enlargement of the EU will strengthen competition, thus improving the economic and social situation in these countries. This will ensure that, in the event of increased environmental awareness and increased competition in the energy sector, it will be possible to ensure an exit from nuclear power use by taking real costs into account. However, we are also required in Austria not only to continue what we have now done in a pioneering role under the Atomic Liability Act, but also to take important and far-reaching steps in the field of environmental tax reform, because only under this condition is it ensured that the real costs are charged. Again: The central issue of the exit is and remains the liability regime to which nuclear power use is subject. The Austrian law to be decided today is an example of this, and we are glad that it is possible to decide it with the votes of all the political groups today. On the motion for a resolution tabled by the Greens, which bears the title "European nuclear exodus concepts and nuclear ceasefire": The Liberals believe that he is behind what we decided last July. It is true that a concentration of discussions on the future German government will be an important part, but to say that a new proposal, which only provides for bilateral talks, talks with other governments – and the first resolution refers to all governments within the EU and therefore also to the German – we think that we are too short. We therefore believe that it would not be useful to decide on this motion for a resolution and thus to concentrate on what we decided last July. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to a request from the Liberals who wanted to achieve a change in the Nuclear Locking Act, a supplement to the Nuclear Locking Act. We not only consider it useful that the use of energy from nuclear fission plants is prohibited, but also that nuclear fusion plants should be subject to this ban. In this respect, it would be easy for Austria to define this in a law, because between 1994 and 1998 there were at least 1 254 million ECU spent on nuclear research, both for fusion research and nuclear safety, and just under 1 billion ECU for all nonnuclear energy research projects, including fossils. This means that there is still a serious imbalance between nuclear research and nuclear fusion research on the one hand and renewable energy on the other. And we think it would be consistent to exclude the option of nuclear power supply at national level not only with nuclear fission reactors but also with nuclear fusion reactors. We could thus provide an example at European level, which we will certainly be today with the adoption of the Atomic Liability Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6100	Mrs. Mag now comes to speak. Prammer. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say once again what I have said here in the House several times, namely that it is very essential and important that the Austrian position, the Austrian strategy for the exit from nuclear energy, be carried on intensively internationally. I keep myself in mind again and again: What is the quality of this Austrian road? This quality of the Austrian road is that all, I must say, are almost everyone in one line. That is to say, started with the Federal Government through Parliament, through the environmental organizations that are so important, up to the many, many people in this country all agree that we must use our strength, our work as best as possible, in order to be able to take the appropriate precautions in Austria. Of course, we can only do this if we look beyond our own borders when we make politics across our own borders. I think it is very important and necessary that this Austrian position is taken seriously, that this Austrian position falls on fertile soil and that it is in fact also successful in finding alliance partners within the European Union but also outside the European Union. I've been doing this antiatomic coordination for about a year now, and you can believe me, that's not a simple undertaking. I invest a great deal of time in preparing the ground at both bilateral and European level and at international level, that states that have not yet been prepared to enter this dialogue, take this step and also get into this debate, which certainly does not mean an exit for many from the outset. But if we look today at what has already changed or changed within the European Union, then we recognize that Austrian attitude and Austrian politics are clearly the right thing. After all, Mr Bartenstein has already said so, Italy has already left, as well as gone out. Sweden has decided to leave the way of nuclear energy. Of course, it will be extremely exciting what decisions will be taken in Germany. I think that this policy must encourage us to continue our initiatives, especially at the northern and eastern border of Austria. It has already been mentioned: I am in Prague tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and will have a large number of talks there: with the Minister of the Environment, with the Minister of Industry, also with the Prime Minister, because it is necessary to prepare the soil for a nuclear exodus in the Czech Republic. And the same is also to be done with a new government in Slovakia. It is primarily about finding the willingness to talk about it with Austria. I just want to remind you: The Czech Republic has so far not been interested in cooperation. Austria has often tried to make offers, to find cooperation opportunities. This has not worked out until now, and I expect and hope that this will succeed in the future. Not only will it require a single visit tomorrow and the day after, but there will have to be many visits by many Austrian politicians and, above all, return visits here in Austria. This applies, of course, to other countries in Europe. If today is repeatedly called on to focus strongly on veto law in the framework of the negotiations on enlargement of the European Union, I would like to stress what Mr Bartenstein said: Of course, we are aware that every single Member State in the European Union has a veto right until the last moment and can put everything in the balance and say it fits or does not fit. But I also say quite openly: I think it is worrying to believe that we have a special status, be it something special – not because we do not operate nuclear power plants, but because we are looking to the point of view, we are going better, we are further – and always to point out with our finger and to point out the possibility of a veto, but at the same time not to try everything before such a debate at all, so that a cooperation can be established on the normal basis of negotiation. That, I think, is the wrong way. I'm saying that quite openly. I think we must take these candidate countries seriously. We also need to respect their needs. And I am convinced that we are going further with many conversations than if we only point out with our finger and draw attention to the possibility of a veto. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also convinced that all these countries know that there is a serious debate in Austria. That is why I also believe that we are being taken seriously in our discussions and efforts. It is certainly reasonable and wise to take steps at European level in this area. This is also a matter of safety, because we know, of course, that if a country decides to leave nuclear energy, such as Sweden, it is far from a final shutdown of the power plants, that alternative ways must be found. That is why the security debates are very important, and above all – and that has already been said – they are also door openers for many more talks that are necessary and that need to be conducted intensively. Mr Bartenstein has reported on the development in the Commission as regards the accession negotiations, I can go a bit further: In the context of very, very intensive and very efficient negotiations under the Austrian Presidency, we have actually succeeded in including the final document as a conclusion – I would like to quote it: "...to improve nuclear safety in the applicant countries on the accession strategies for the environment, so as to achieve a level corresponding to the state of the Union in terms of regulatory and operational technology". I think that is an essential step we can take. This will bring the Austrian Presidency, and it was not easy to achieve. It has already been negotiated and approved by all 15 countries. And that is the difficult thing: that we need the approval of all 15 Member States everywhere, and that could actually be achieved. I am very happy about it and very pleased with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, however, one thing has to be said, because the Austrian Presidency is constantly being strongly focused on: The very far-reaching position of Austria is much clearer in times when Austria does not hold the Presidency. We, of course, as the country of the presidency, are committed to constantly reaching the agreement of the others, and of course it is often difficult to get the agreement of all 15. I noticed it very clearly this year: I had to represent the European Union at the General Conference of the IAEA, because we are the country of the Presidency, and I gave it the statement of the European Union. Every word has to be negotiated there, otherwise it cannot be said. It is all the more important, of course, to find back to Austria in order to define also the very clear Austrian position throughout Europe and outside Europe. I would like to return to work here in Austria. I have made it a habit to have discussions very open and very transparent, to leave nothing in a drawer somewhere. All of you are constantly getting the information, the reports. I also promised you, as it was desired, a Jour fixe; it will take place in two weeks the first. Of course, I would also like to continue to have the dialogue with all five parliamentary parties in order to know precisely in the interaction: What does the Federal Government do, what does Parliament want to do, what do individual parties want to do? I was very, very happy about the discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, when the popular desire was finally negotiated and said: The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection wants to take action! – It is not enough just to go to the speaker’s desk, but it is also necessary to have contacts on the ground, to have discussions on the ground and to try to do convincing work, especially at the parliamentary level, in front of the parliamentary counterpart, and in doing so we can add to it. It is very important that there is not a political confusion within Austria, but that we come together to a goal which is: a Europe, a world without nuclear power – without nuclear power in the energy field, without nuclear power in the arms! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And finally, one more thing: Above all, we should be grateful to the many environmental organisations – the big ones: Greenpeace, Global 2000, Anti-Atom International, and also the many small ones – who have actually managed to have a very clear and consistent policy in this area. I think that this is also a quality that we should export, because it is also an essential condition in an anti-atomic policy to clearly signal outwards: There are no "only" a federal government or "only" a parliament or "only" a few days of land that take certain resolutions and make decisions and give speeches, but behind this policy is the Austrian population, which is the declared will of the people living in Austria. I am convinced that in the democratic process of these Eastern and Central European countries, it will succeed in developing the same sensory capacity as we do. We should help them, not just raise their fingers. We should actively help them on this path towards a common Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6199	Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6220	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Today's debate and decision-making of resolutions or the Atomic Liability Act are another step towards a consistent anti-atomic policy that Austria has been pursuing for many years. The Austrian way is clear: With our popular vote against Zwentendorf and the subsequent formation of consciousness, Austria has taken a clear anti-atomic attitude. In recent years, we have also consistently communicated this attitude internationally and have repeatedly made our contribution to ensure that the security of the Austrian population is safeguarded and that its hazards are maintained by surrounding nuclear power plants. Internationally, that was not so obvious. I remember very carefully the debate in spring 1995 when I tried to find allies in the European Union as a new member of the European Union against the granting of EBRD loans for the construction of Mochovce. At the time, many European Union Environment Ministers said to me: Mochovce, Mochovce – what is it and where is it? They did not know at all what a danger to the Austrian population at the borders of Austria would be. At the time, we were able to take the relevant decisions against them: both here in Parliament, which has adopted a corresponding resolution, and also in the European Parliament, as well as in the Council of the Environment Ministers, which I am very proud of, because a majority in the Environment Council of Ministers was elected by an initial minority vote. At that time, seven countries of the European Union joined the Austrian position, and we had a majority against granting a loan for the construction of the nuclear power plant in Mochovce. Finally, it could also be prevented and thus a start of the EBRD in the promotion of nuclear policy. That was the central point: This loan would have represented the first support of a nuclear power plant by the EBRD. In the meantime, cost awareness has also become stronger and one knows that the nuclear current is not the cheapest but the most expensive current. It is not only the nuclear safety measures that cost money, of course also production, and ultimately the end-to-end storage is still not included in the cost reality. If these costs are involved, then the atomic current is by far the most expensive current. However, we have also contributed in recent years to changing the awareness of the European Union, and it is therefore a very special concern that the issue of nuclear safety and the medium and long-term exit from nuclear energy in Central Europe and the European Union must be and must be an starting point for the European Union's negotiations on enlargement. I am therefore very, very glad that the current President-in-Office, our Foreign Minister, Vice-President Dr Schüssel, called for a definition of the safety standards for nuclear power plants at the beginning of the Presidency – a very essential condition in order to succeed in these negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It can never be the highest standards on the issue of safety standards, but always only the highest standards. Only these are good enough for the Austrian and European population. However, these safety standards apply not only to the candidate countries but also, of course, to the Member States of the European Union. That is why they are opposed to implementing the definition of these safety standards and are still rejecting an appropriate directive. The Member States of the European Union must set a good example. I should like to remind you of Germany, which made a decision very quickly concerning the non-completion of Greifswald, a reactor from the former GDR, in which there was the same situation as with Mochovce. The German Federal Government has decided under Chancellor Kohl not to complete this reactor because the cost-benefit analysis has shown that the cost of safe operation is not justified. There was a nuclear power plant in Bavaria, which was exactly a day on the grid and was then shut down and which will never go to the grid again. The Germans have so far been very critical of their own nuclear power plants. I think they have given us little support in relation to our neighbouring countries. But perhaps – and this remains to be hoped – this will change with the change of the political landscape. I am very curious whether the new German Environment Minister, who is expected to be put on by the Greens, will be able to implement and make appropriate adjustments. With the French government of Jospin, I have not yet noticed any clear signals against nuclear power. I very much hope, Mrs Prammer, that the Federal Chancellor, as the person responsible for this, will put his entire political weight in the balance, in order to enforce the Austrian position or to assert his influence with his colleagues, both with the French and with the friends Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder, and expect that he will ultimately call for friendship. I hope the Federal Chancellor will do this also in our neighbouring country of the Czech Republic, with his colleague Milos Zeman. Mrs. Federal Minister! You're in the Czech Republic tomorrow. I hope that you will get an appointment there and that you will not be as successful as your Italian counterpart in the beef and veal affair, where the appointment has obviously not been successful. I hope that you will act happier on this issue, including with regard to Temelin and Dukovany, than on the beef question. The change in the political landscape in the other neighbouring countries of Austria also gives reason for hope. I have previously received an APA notification stating that the colported election winner Mikulaš Dzurinda in Slovakia no longer considers the nuclear power question to be an internal matter of Slovakia. He said in an interview that he would enter into an open and serious dialogue with Austria. We welcome this very much, and we think it is very good. He also stated that Mochovce would certainly be the last nuclear power plant in Slovakia, but was not yet the last word in this regard. So there is the hope that the forthcoming change of government will give rise to hope that something will change. He also assured that Bohunice's last reactor blocks will soon be shut down. Although it cannot yet give a concrete date, it is convinced that Slovakia can find alternative sources of energy that make nuclear power plants superfluous. That means that there could be – and should also – a lot of things in motion. I would remind you, however, that in the European Union at present a request for the Rovno-Khmelnitzky nuclear power plant in Ukraine lies with an effort for its completion of more than 13 billion schilling. In this case too, it must be ensured that an unsafe power plant will not work longer than it would be necessary to do. Finally, we also need to talk to our Hungarian colleagues about the Paks nuclear power plant and about alternatives. The European Union will also have to consider the aid it provides to Slovenia and Croatia for the Krško nuclear power plant and Bulgaria for the closure of Kozloduj. We have a lot to do. I very much hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will be able to achieve this in your visit to the Czech Republic tomorrow. I know that it is difficult and, like politics, it is a drilling of hard boards, nuclear policy is a drilling of particularly hard boards, but I hope that you will not surrender there and that Temelin and the extension of Dukovany will not take place.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6304	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6326	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It is of course important, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, to look at the European situation and see how the development is in the individual countries, especially since nuclear policy must have a pan-European dimension if it is to be successful. But on the other hand – and I am not going to get rid of this feeling – it is a little away from the situation in Austria and from what has once been promised very full-bodied and still not on the table, or from what has not been fulfilled by the demands in the applications for treatment today. However, I would like to tell you the following because you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat - I understood it so - meant that there was no real progress there in the field of anti-atomic policy: One can, of course, judge this, it is clear to everyone, but one should also bear in mind that the fact that in a government there is no further expansion of nuclear power plants and a stopover of Superphenix, for France, for a country that is mostly from nuclear power plants, means about as much as if we were finally on the table here with the Nuclear Locking Act or Anti-Atom Package promised last year. On this scale, I would see that. I therefore come to the promise given by the Federal Government in November of last year to bind an anti-atomic package in which everything that could only contain it is contained, such as the collection of the nuclear barrier law in the constitutional rank. There should be nine points in total. However, with the exception of the liability law that exists here today, we have seen nothing and heard nothing from this anti-atom package. [[Abg. Rauch-Kallat: Ask the Federal Government which is responsible!]] Don't always talk to the Federal Government! We know that we have a great coalition in which nothing goes without the will of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, and my experience over the last three years is that it depends mainly on the will of the ÖVP whether something goes or not. [[Abg. Smoking call: Mrs. Federal Minister is responsible!]] As an ÖVP member, don't imagine that as if you had nothing to do with it! Yes, I am still speaking on this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking call: Mrs. Federal Minister is responsible!]] It was precisely the SPÖ which, following in January, assured in this context that, of course, an anti-atomic package could not only deal with the peaceful use of nuclear energy, but must be clear that it also includes the rejection of nuclear weapons, both their stationation and production and their transport through Austria. This is a matter of course. This was presented at the time by SPÖ-Klubobmann Kostelka. If I look at what you are presenting here today after the treatment of popular desire, I have to say: There is no word in this about nuclear weapons. There is no word about the ban on the transport of nuclear weapons through Austria, although this was demanded in popular desire in points 1 and 3. But You have obviously treated this popular desire as you always do and as we have experienced more often last year: You discuss it, you promise everything possible, especially the Social Democratic Party is always very quick to make great promises, but when it comes to the implementation and the realization of the demands, there are several points in any statement. In this case, it is a declaration with eight points, all of which are good, right and important, but very imprecise and very inaccurate, especially in view of the fact that you promised a legislative package last year with concrete implementations and implementations. But there is no such thing as that. Among these eight points you are presenting here is the essential point on which we are dealing with nuclear weapons. There is no clear statement of intent in that we are in favour of the prohibition of possession, use, production, attempts at import, transit and stationing of nuclear weapons. She's also supposed to be part of a nuclear barrier law. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which provides for a ninth point to be clearly formulated on the eight points you have discussed and decided in the Committee. If you are concerned that it is not only about the peaceful use of nuclear energy, but also about, as you yourself say, the nuclear industry in its military as well as in its so-called peaceful variant, one of the greatest danger potential, in order to stop or store radioactive weapons in Austria, you cannot, in fact, prevent you from accepting this ninth point of our motion for a resolution. On the other hand, what you always say or prefer reports from committees remains merely symbolic policy and nothing else. I would now like to refer to the story of the whole, which had an interesting course: When the popular desire was announced or, as it were, understood in introduction, you obviously prepared in the first fright an application, in which it was quite clear – the government fractions have formulated it this way –: "Austria shall neither possess nor produce nor attempt to use nuclear weapons." However, you did not make this request. In the course of the coalition negotiations, you obviously got away with it again. It is only possible to conclude why you have escaped from the actual project, why, contrary to the Committee's report, you have, of course, got rid of nuclear weapons, and this is that once again there was a deal between the coalition parties on the question of future NATO accession to Austria, a deal in the specific situation, especially in the period from January to March, when you discussed coalition internals, or whether there should be an option report on NATO accession, and how this option report can see that you, my colleague, have discussed, or debated, whether there should be an option report on NATO accession. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, once again you have gotten your mom off the ÖVP in the sense that there will be no report of options in which NATO accession is contained if you abandon the passport concerning nuclear weapons. It is clear – and there are verifiable quotations from the Ministry of State Defense – that a constitutional anchoring of the ban on the transport and transit of nuclear weapons, which would be particularly relevant to the airway, would be as big a barrier to NATO accession as the Neutrality Act. It is quite clear what it says, which interests were crucial, that we have a proper presentation from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but actually a little targeting in view of the dangers of the nuclear industry as a whole and not just the so-called peaceful use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6394	Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander referred in her statement to a motion for a resolution which she put forward in the key points. As a result of the scope of the text, I have caused the reproduction to take place. The application is properly signed and is included in the proceedings. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6465	Mr Oberhaidinger came to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6484	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words on the four-party resolution request which has already been discussed several times. I really regret the fact that the Freedom Party has left the previously, I believe, very successful common path both inside - towards the Federal Government - and outside. There are certainly a number of reasons for this. However, I believe that the most important line to date would have been to keep it as it was. I must say to the ÖVP that I am very sorry that the ÖVP has been unable to separate itself from its attitude that nuclear power plants are basically evil, but nuclear weapons are good. If this had been done in their ranks, we would have the opportunity today to adopt a proper nuclear ban law in addition to the Atomic Liability Act. It is not so, and we have to live with it, but I say quite clearly here: I have no joy with this attitude, and I believe that this attitude does not increase the credibility of foreign countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The decision on the exit from the use of nuclear energy in Sweden and the emerging trend in Germany, I believe, is a huge step closer to the actual exit from nuclear energy at least in the European Union. In my contribution to the debate, I would therefore like to take a closer look at the energy aspects of these changes for us and the European Union. I would like to emphasise our objectives regarding the exit from the use of nuclear energy, which is still unchanged and which are as follows: First: At least in the short term, Western European safety standards must be sought. The behaviour in the European Commission and the comments today often suggest that this will be a hard work at EU level, in relation to all nuclear power stations, both in Central and Eastern Europe. Secondly, We are in favour of a pan-European exit from nuclear power in the medium and longer term. This one is to be pursued more intensively. Ladies and gentlemen! Many, I think, do not know that at present a third of the electricity needs in the European Union are covered by nuclear power. It is therefore, I believe, more than plausible that an exit from the use of nuclear energy alone should not be implemented from today to tomorrow. But I am of the opinion – and the development proves it – that an exit is nevertheless feasible. Energy efficiency should be increased accordingly. If I had more speaking time, I could now report to you on a symposia of an Austrian university on energy efficiency. This study shows, for example, that 400 million schillings are spent annually on heating and electricity. If more efficient, around 60 million Schilling could be saved – the first project results. So about 15 percent of the energy costs could be saved. There are a number of possibilities in households and industry to save energy. I do not think we will be concerned that in the short or medium term the lack of electricity from nuclear power will be replaced by electricity from gas power plants. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this: There's enough gas. The gas supply is already comprehensive. The efficiency of the new gas turbines is over 90 percent. We also need to know that the European Union imports almost half its energy needs, especially from the Middle East. The European Union's dependence on its energy needs is therefore a very large one, and the trend is still on the rise. If nothing is done in this area, then it can be assumed that in 2020 about two thirds of the European Union's energy needs will be covered by energy imports if they develop as much as they can currently be estimated. This makes the EU very dependent and does not contribute to crisis-proof energy supply. Therefore, the demand in the White Paper on renewable energy can only be underlined, according to which the share of renewable energy sources should be increased to 12 percent by 2010. It would be really nice if we could face up to what we have achieved in Austria so far. Unfortunately, this is not possible today. In conclusion, with all the measures that we have already mentioned and which we will continue to pursue in the future, we have set a course to implement part of the national climate programme and to reduce energy consumption accordingly in our countries. I think we should use this opportunity as a driving force for a new qualitative employment offensive. There are a number of examples of this, particularly in the field of the use of renewable energy sources. Nor do I want to know the hydropower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6552	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6573	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek left the meeting room for a short time.]] They left you alone now. - High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debated here and today about a nuclear-free Austria and a nuclear-free central Europe. We Liberals very much regret that four of the parties present want to take a not as hard course in the future as has been the case so far. We are also debating the extent to which it would be possible to close nuclear power stations and the fact that we all do not want new nuclear power stations to be built in the east. However, this must also apply to Central Europe, including Western Central Europe. We have been standing with us in Tyrol for ten years – especially in Tyrol! – the ghost of a new car at the door, namely the Marienberg nuclear power station. In Bavaria, 29 kilometres from Kufstein and from the Austrian border, there is a planned location. This project has been in discussion for ten years. As early as 1992, the freedom of parliamentarian Dillersberger in the Tiroler Landtag succeeded in initiating an application against this planned nuclear power plant. And in the following years, Upper Austria and Salzburg have also followed this intention. But not only in Austria there are initiatives against it. On the Bavarian side too, there are some touching citizens' initiatives that have joined forces in the "action alliance against nuclear power Rosenheim", AGARO, and have applied for a popular desire. And in Tyrol, in the Kufstein district, in the spring, initiated by a district newspaper, there was a signature action, because again this AKW Marienberg came to speak. 7 100 signatures were collected in the affected district of Kufstein in the very shortest time. On the other hand, of course. It is in Bavaria, in particular, the CSU, which – and I now use the language of the action alliance against nuclear power – runs a "smart nuclear course". It is the CSU that does not want to drop down the option to set up the new pressure water reactor EPR – because this is about it here – and which is apparently not prepared to take the Marienberg project out of the site security plan. I therefore wrote in June of this year, before the Bavarian elections, to four CSU delegates in Bavaria, to the honourable Member on the Bavarian Landtag Adolf Dinglreiter, to Mrs Ilse Aigner, to Mr Sepp Rainer – both representatives of the Bavarian Landtag – and to Mr Wolfgang Zeitlmann, member of the German Bundestag. I have also received answers to this letter. The tenor of these answers was uniform. It was explained that there was neither a definitive construction nor a definitive planning plan. There are currently 40 percent overcapacity, and no new ways were envisaged before 2006. The succus was also that all the debates that have been held in recent times deprived of any basis, and that once again, before elections, only panics are carried out! Now the Bavarian country elections are over. The CSU won. And I've been on the 1st. The "Tyroler Zeitung" (Tyrol daily) reads as follows: AKW Marienberg not from the table? The proposal to include the ban on new nuclear power plants in the text of the Alpine Convention was rejected. The meeting in question took place in Liège, Slovenia. The project AKW Marienberg appeared again at Rosenheim, and according to Mr. Hasslacher, who was present there, it was explained that the rejection of the Bavarian CSU in spring had not been definitive – that was therefore an election promise! – and according to the statements of German negotiators in Laibach, the Marienberg project is by no means from the table. I am afraid it is simply not enough to focus on the new candidate countries and activities in these countries. I think it is high time we tried, from the side of the Austrian Parliament, to influence our immediate neighbours and to move them to mandatory declarations of relinquishment. I regret that four parties of the National Council have left the path so far extremely consistent, because the instrument that has now been put into your hands, Mrs Federal Minister, and your partners in the government, is simply toothless. It is not even a definitive statement of intent! I really think I can say that the Austrians do not need new nuclear power plants and do not want them, and that it must therefore be in the interests of all of us to do everything possible, rather than simply to put on the realistically feasible, as it has always happened today. I expect you, Mrs Federal Minister, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to really talk to our Bavarian neighbours about what is to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6642	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6676	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Nuclear energy is not only the most dangerous, but also the most expensive form of energy, especially if one calculates the costs of disposal, the costs of intermediate and final storage of radioactive fuel and radioactive waste, and the costs of decommissioning. At the latest since Chernobyl, we know from our own experience that the dangers of nuclear power plants cannot be controlled. The risk of nuclear power plants is simply too high! In view of this, I am very glad that the Members of the four parties of our Parliament were able to agree on a motion for a resolution, also because we can meet the demand of the Upper Austrian Parliament. The anti-atomic Committee was with us in Vienna in June, and we discussed the problems together and set out some points in the discussions. [[Abg. Gaugg: That is no longer a matter of hypocrisy! The Holy See shines up here! This hypocrisy!]] – Mr Colleague! Listen! You weren't there. Don't talk to me if you weren't there! One of the most important points is to develop an effective nuclear exodus scenario in order to enable the applicant countries to stop the use of nuclear energy. Another focus is on taking into account the aspect of cost-effectiveness in the use of nuclear energy. The life cycle costs of the nuclear energy elements are to be fully included in the cost-truth assessment. The nuclear liability law on the agenda today is also heading towards nuclear cost truth. Austria will also call for the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries to the Espoo and Lugano Agreements. Thus we would have party status in the case of approval procedures or damages rights. Of course, this resolution is also intended to confirm and encourage Austria's anti-atomic line to continue. That's why, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, I do not understand why you did not join this request in committee. They demand a junkimation towards nuclear operators, i.e. they want to make the EU accession of the countries concerned dependent on their exit from nuclear energy. Remember that this demand can also be counterproductive! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear to you that the non-accession of an nuclear-powered country to the European Union would rather reduce or increase the chances of an exit from nuclear energy, especially for economic reasons. Now that the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to draw up a report by the end of 1998 on the external consequences of any start-up of the Temelin nuclear power station, I would like to make the following further request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Furthermore, it appears that Austria has been successful in its process of making nuclear safety in the applicant countries an important issue and not a threat to it. We all know that a Commission communication was adopted last Thursday in the EU Council of Ministers, which points out that Slovakia must close two reactors in the Bohunice nuclear power station. In principle, I believe that the path we have taken and our position, which we will continue to represent, are right at international level, including with regard to Mochovce and Temelin. It will also be right to further strengthen these efforts in the future. I would like to thank you from this point of view, Mr Bartenstein, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prammer, and Mr Schüssel, who is vehement at EU level, both against Temelin and against Mochovce, and who have not only looked at this matter bilaterally, but have raised it to the European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, it should also be noted that the Environment Committee has agreed to send an Austrian parliamentary delegation to the Czech Republic in November of this year to discuss the situation with the competent authorities. It should also be achieved in the EU that a future focus will be on research and the promotion of alternative energy sources in order to provide the Central and Eastern European countries with a real alternative to existing nuclear power plants. New approaches to energy policy could also produce additional employment effects. A future-oriented energy system focusing on domestic, renewable energy sources and better energy efficiency would result in citizens’ expenditure on energy services being increased domestically and thus safeguarding domestic value-added. Currently, no renewable energy sources are driving away the ecological, domestic energy sources, such as wood. In the last decades, 40 million cubic metres of forest wood has remained unused. The proposal made yesterday by Federal Minister Molterer in Gmunden is also very interesting in this regard. If, for example, the diesel fuel were to be added to the future by 2 per cent of biodiesel and this would be taxed, then about 80 to 100 million schilling would be avoided by the Minister of Finance. There would be no price for consumers. However, this measure would have the effect of additional 45 000 hectares of agricultural land being built. Biomass helps to safeguard rural areas and has a high employment potential. I therefore urge the Federal Government to continue to drive forward the positive developments already in the direction of promoting renewable energy sources and against the use of nuclear energy, so that the points raised in our motions for resolutions will at least one step closer to the objective of a nuclear-free Central Europe as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6739	The motion for a resolution, which has been read by Mr Ellmauer, has been signed in accordance with the rules of procedure, has been presented to the Bureau and is included in the proceedings. I now give the floor... – Minister of State Dr. Michalek, have you now spoken? [[Abg. Dr Gredler, who wants to come to the speaker's desk, notes that Federal Minister Dr. Michalek wants to take the floor and leaves him with blatantly exaggerated polite gestures to take the lead.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek, in turn, wants to give her the lead.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Too much courtesy! Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Michalek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6784	Excuse me, Mrs. Deputies. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to interrupt the debates from the plenary by means of a contribution from the Government Bank and to say a few words about the Atomic Liability Act from the point of view of the judiciary, in whose jurisdiction it belongs and by which both the assessment draft and the government template have been prepared. For us, there was no doubt that the Nuclear Liability Act 1964, despite the removal of certain gross defects by the Extended Limits Novel 1997 for many reasons, is unsatisfying. Above all, the objective of the law at that time, namely the promotion of the nuclear economy through numerous civil liability restrictions, cannot be maintained in the light of Austria's opposition to the use of nuclear energy. In a country that has turned away from nuclear energy decades ago and in which nuclear power is neither socially nor politically accepted, a regulation does not make sense which requires this acceptance. Even if one has in mind the generally cross-border dimensions of nuclear accidents, it is only logical from the point of view of Austrian anti-atomic policy if the liability rights of the nuclear economy are abolished. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The key elements of the draft have already been mentioned: drastic intensification of liability for nuclear installations and transports, elimination of maximum liability limits, liability not only for disturbances, but also for normal operation, liability also for environmental impairments, if, however, they, which will be the rule, are associated with a damage to a physical matter, liability for preventive measures – think of evacuations of large-scale nature –, facilitation of the proof of causality and the information rights of the injured, and aggravation of insurance obligations. But above all, as has rightly been said, the very core point of the new regulation, from which much is consistently derived, is – and this is, as has rightly been said, the current canalization of liability, which is based on international agreements. The cross-border dimension of nuclear accidents also takes account of our proposal through specific rules on jurisdiction and applicable law. In the future, Austrian victims may therefore choose whether to assert their claims before an Austrian court or before a foreign court. Thus, the choice between Austrian law and a more favourable foreign law is open to them. Although the enforcement of Austrian judgments may present difficulties internationally, I see no reason to ignore the material claims of the injured at all. All in all, I believe that the draft provides for a fundamental change in the field of nuclear liability. It takes into account the inevitable risks of nuclear energy generation, but it puts the affected and the damaged environment in the foreground of the scheme, unlike the current nuclear liability law and also different from the international conventions. It thus contributes to a remarkable re-weighting in damages law, to a reorientation that other countries as well as the State community can serve as an example and a model. Especially because of the cross-border dimensions of nuclear accidents, we have certainly not made it easy with the reform project. The explanations of the Government template give a debated and criticised testimony to the fact that all for and against the reform have been thoroughly assessed. If the National Council is aware of all of these arguments for the renewal of the nuclear liability law within the meaning of the Government's proposal, then this is primarily a political signal; a signal which, as we hope, will also fall on fertile ground on an international level and there provide an incentive for a rethinking in nuclear liability law. For the effect of this signal, it seems not least essential that the National Council adopt the new Atomic Liability Act, as already in the Committee on Justice, unanimously today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6839	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6864	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! It was an honour to listen to you and to speak only afterwards, as you have made a very strong reference to the cross-border effects of nuclear power stations disasters. In this context, I would like to refer to the request made today by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the financing of nuclear power plants. This was a burning problem when I was in the European Parliament because Ukraine actually took everyone hostage and said that it would lock up Chernobyl nuclear power plant if no solution to its energetic problems was found. And this solution has been proposed by Ukraine as well: It should include the construction of two new nuclear power plants: Rovno and Chemlnitzky, which correspond to the type to be found at our border. We were already very active to prevent the Mochovce nuclear power plant. But what really displeased me is that there was a G7 meeting, which decided that the European Union should contribute to the financing of these new nuclear power plants in Ukraine. It has been shown that caloric power plants could be built more cheaply in this area and do not yet involve the risk that a nuclear power plant of course carries. On the basis of my intervention, the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Vrannitzky, once again made contact with Austrian officials in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and gave instructions that no funding should be supported in this direction. Only: Now there is a new situation due to a emerging government in Germany. The nuclear axis Germany – France will no longer exist to this extent. We probably have the opportunity to achieve a new dynamic at European level now, a dynamic that brings far more impetus than what has been achieved so far. It will be important to focus on renewable energy to tackle nuclear energy. My previous speaker, Barmüller, has already presented enough funding for research, and there should be a much higher degree of redeployment in the EU than before. But it is also about achieving greater transparency and exerting more pressure on France. France has now become, as it were, the rock in the fire as far as the atomic lobby is concerned. There are contacts in France that you can probably use much better than liberals can because social democrats are represented in the government. That is why I would ask Parliamentarians to become active at the party political level in order to take hostages of the French who sit in the EU Parliament. It is unbearable to know that the French nuclear lobby is probably paying staff in offices of European parliamentarians – and I know what they are still paying for. This lobby has a power which is only to be counter-carryed by the fact that there is cohesion at the parliamentary level. In contrast to the "F", which obviously does not imply Austrian cohesion, I urge such a one. We should use all the channels we have. On the one hand, we must solve the problem with Ukraine, and we should not accept this threat, which was expressed by Ukraine at the time, namely the reopening of Chernobyl. On the other hand, we also have the opportunity to use our opportunities within the European Union accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6907	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6928	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! More than 30 percent of the electricity is generated by nuclear energy, and this high share of total electricity supplies helps us to have sufficient electricity daily at reasonable prices. Furthermore, I believe that the benefits of nuclear energy are not to be rejected under environmental considerations either, because according to the assumed replacement energy, nuclear energy avoids up to 150 million tonnes of CO2 per year and thus contributes significantly to our goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 25 percent by 2005. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Are you now for nuclear energy?]] I'm waiting for you! The colleague Langthaler can't take it. – I have just quoted the German Federal Minister for the Environment Angela Merkel, from a beautiful brochure I took with me at ENVITEC in Düsseldorf, and I am actually glad that this time in Germany is obviously over. That's what it says in the "Mirror" in an article: Quickly but tolerable is the exit from nuclear energy. This is the new plan by Gerhard Schröder's expert. It is therefore also apparent in Germany, as in many other European countries, at least a rosarod sky in relation to nuclear policy. – I didn’t change my mind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The first and most important message of this report discussed here is: Austria will continue its active anti-nuclear power plant policy with high intensity. The nuclear liability law to be decided today also sets, I believe, new international standards. Second and continuous message: Austria has succeeded in making nuclear power policy an international and European issue. The safety of Eastern European nuclear power plants is now also given high priority by the Commission and the EU Parliament as regards the candidate countries. Third parties and, I believe, the most encouraging message: Our view that there must be a medium- to long-term exit from nuclear energy is becoming increasingly evident in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Seven countries of the European Union are already abandoning nuclear power, and Sweden has also decided to phase out nuclear energy in the medium term by 2010. I have just put on Germany – it looks very gratifying there – and there are also positive signals under the new government in France. The exit from nuclear power, not only in Central Europe, but in Europe as a whole, is feasible, and, from my point of view, a Europe that is largely social-democratic, as we find it at present, will make a decisive contribution to this exit – I am sure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Three areas of problem are currently present for me: First, Temelin. – Talks also with the new government will be started in the next few days. Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer will be in Prague, and we will have a meeting with Czech parliamentarians – and our committee chairman will make a great effort there. Safety considerations will certainly also be supported in the business sector. Please give me a hint: I have the draft "Central Energy Policy Progress Report" on our resolution of 10. It is a very encouraging report. Just one comment, ladies and gentlemen of the government: The Federal Government was asked to carry out an economic assessment of nuclear energy. However, this report states that, given the priority of other tasks and limited budgetary resources, this task had to be reduced, but such a study is envisaged. – I believe that the funds for such an important study should not be missing, and I urge that this point be implemented very soon. The second point concerns the Dukovany nuclear power station. I believe that if we prevent Temelin, there is no need for the completion of Dukovany. Of course, Mochovce is one of our main problems. We are also in favour, and I also know in Mečiar's election situation a chance to enforce our opinion more strongly. I would also like to say quite clearly: I believe that Slovakia, if it wants to become a member of the European Union – and it was not certain at all with Mečiar that it wanted it at all – will have to change its nuclear power policy decisively, and we want to support it in a kind way. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it has been very successful for us by our strict but, unlike some opposition parties, realistic attitude in nuclear power policy in the last two years. Now it is said not to let go of it, with consequence, with tenacity, not necessarily with the wood hammer so much desired by my colleague Schweitzer, but with an agreement which unfortunately would only be limited to four parties in this resolution. Then we will also achieve the goal of a pan-European and not only a Central European exit from nuclear power. For this purpose, we want to work together with social democrats – and should all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6976	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e6997	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We celebrate a anniversary in this country in a few weeks: ==References== In November 1978, about 20 years ago, the referendum took place in Austria on the commissioning of the Ztentendorf nuclear power plant, and of course it is a pleasure that today we are talking differently, especially on the part of the Socialist Group, than at that time, 20 years ago, before this truly historic vote. But there is still not only a somewhat contradictory Austrian policy on this subject, but there are still very many, very financial lobbies that pursue a goal that obviously does not – and thank God not! – the majority of this House and not the majority of the government. A few weeks ago – Mrs. Minister, that would have been interesting for you too, I would just like to report on it – an event of the European Atomic Lobby Organization "Frametom" took place in Vienna, which now also has an organization or a branch in Austria – interestingly, with the almost identical address as the energy recovery in Lower Austria. I don't know if that's a coincidence. In any case, they have an event in Vienna as an atomic lobbyist: How can nuclear power contribute to reducing the climate problem? or similar. What we heard there was inconceivable. You thought it was time to stop. It has been said that there is no risk that one will actually have this technology in place and that nothing would resist it, in any case technologically, except apparently some political dreamers, that a large offensive could not be launched on new nuclear power plants in both Western and Eastern Europe. What I would like to demonstrate with this is that not only in Eastern Europe, but also in Western Europe, of course, some truly financial organizations are still planning projects at the green table, but they are trying to influence governments in a very concrete and very strong way. And, of course, the outcome of the election in Germany on European development has led to a drastic change and a whole new situation. Mrs. Minister! What we have to blame you today is that Austria, in its list of priorities in the EU Presidency, has not raised the question of anti-atomic policy, the exodus from nuclear power. I cannot see, as a really powerful media consumer and listener, the activities of Austrian government politicians in this half-year of the Presidency, where exactly your approaches are to find alliance partners. As a country with 8 million inhabitants, I am right to say that this is urgently necessary because Austria will not be able to oppose this major offensive, which still exists from the German and French nuclear industries. In London, for example, the EBRD recently held a seminar on possible loans for Eastern European nuclear power plants. The Ukrainian Environment Minister, who was also present, admittedly admitted that he would, of course, take other technologies, but so far only for the two reactor blocks K2-R4 money was promised to him – in this case it is not a spot cleaning agent and not a mountain, but these are two reactor blocks in different places in Ukraine. In any case, the EBRD has provided a loan of USD 200 million, and the citizen participation process has started there, while the energy efficiency programmes for Ukraine have now been put on hold to the same extent. Mr Dr. Luzin is a very dedicated representative in the EBRD. Nevertheless, it is necessary to look at Mrs Minister specifically in the next few months, who is behind it. These are mainly German and French nuclear companies, which no doubt no longer have from politics those "backing" they had a few years ago. In France, there is a government of the left, progressive half with green participation, which will also soon be in Germany. These are very clear signs that there is no doubt that a change can be made at European level. Mrs. Minister! ==References== The next four-year research programme will be decided in Brussels in October on the field of energy and nuclear research. At present, 50 percent are in the field of nuclear research. This too is a very concrete point to be made in order to finally finance the pots differently. I hope that if you discuss with your colleagues in Prague about Temelin, you will not say the same sentence that our Federal Chancellor in Austria has announced in the media. In this it was to be read that German Chancellor Klima Temelin would take note. It was also more or less obvious to the media that it is a matter of reaching Western security standards. That's the wrong strategy. We have seen at Mochovce that it leads to little success. The signal must be quite clear that in Temelin not only a construction stop is taking place, but we are also prepared to co-finance alternatives. I think nothing of a junkim with a possible EU membership of the Czech Republic. However, I am right for Mrs Haller – she is no longer in the hall. It has previously meant dealing not only with Eastern European countries, but also with other countries, such as Germany, which is true. For this very reason, because nuclear power plants are still projected in Germany, it would be wrong to concentrate only on Eastern Europe, and in this context it would be completely wrong to injunctify that with an EU membership. What we must do, however, is – I am finally referring to the Atomic Liability Act – to remind the legal requirement of the applicants. I think that this nuclear liability law, as we are going to decide today, is a major step forward, especially when we look at the international conventions. Whether it is the Parisian or the Vienna Convention of 1960 or 1963, it is totally unacceptable and clearly bear the manuscript of the IAEA, which it designed at the time. The fact that Austria is becoming a court place according to our law and that, in the event of a cross-border accident in Austria, the damage caused in Austria can be charged is progress. It will not be enough that only Austria has achieved this, but it is a good signal for the candidate countries. The motion for a resolution, adopted today by four parties, also mentions the need to implement the Lugano Agreement accordingly. For the candidate countries, it may be argued that if the Czech Republic or the Slovenian Republic wishes to join the EU, it is a condition to accept and ratify this agreement. In the event of possible dangers, a very clear compensation must be claimed. I am convinced that liability law can and will have a preventive effect. That's what you've seen in the United States. It is not for ecological reasons that one has gone out of nuclear power, but for hard economic reasons. If one finally ceases to subsidize nuclear power, just as it still works in a large way in Europe, when at last the real costs of nuclear power are taken into account, both in the field of compensation schemes with provisions and in the concrete price of electricity, then nuclear power is simply and simply no longer expected, then there will be an exit worldwide. The Austrian Atomic Liability Act will be a small contribution to this today, and I am very pleased to be able to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7069	Mr Spindelegger has also been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7090	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my short debate, I would like to focus on the government template for the new Atomic Liability Act 1999. I think it is, in several respects, a remarkable work that we have here, even though direct concern for Austria is perhaps less dramatic due to the non-existent nuclear power plants. However, it has certain effects that I would like to mention. In my opinion, the previous nuclear liability law from 1964 is completely obsolete. We all agree that today's technical, scientific, legal and environmental frameworks are quite different and have to be responded to. However, I believe that this House has already dealt with this problem sufficiently. Not for nothing there were two motions for resolutions on this – of 9. ==References== July 1997 – which has already worked on all of this. We now have a result, and I would like to address three short areas, which I believe are remarkable in the legal dimension of this legislative work. One area concerns § 6: security. Assuring, for example, for someone who operates a nuclear plant in Austria – this area of application will not be very extensive – security also for someone who wants to transport irradiated material, nuclear material through Austria. The guarantee is therefore remarkable because it is coupled with an insurance obligation in a remarkable amount: 5.6 billion schilling for someone who wants to run a nuclear plant. This is, of course, not the most important for possible damage, but a sum which also leads to an insurance benefit and a huge participation and premium. 560 million schilling for someone who wants to transport nuclear material! This means that this also builds a liability sum which could really lead to a cover of any financial claims. I also think this is remarkable in terms of an international role model. We all want to see a regulation in the international community that also improves this situation internationally. What is interesting to me from a legal point of view is the provisions of Section 11 and below. It is quite right to point out in the cause that – it is actually a new kind that we do not know in the context of compensation law – the causer does not have to be clearly demonstrated in such a way that the cause-effect principle must also be clearly demonstrated, but that the principle of probability is sufficient. This is interesting in terms of legal policy, because this means that one only has to prove that it is likely that the damage is due to it. If you look at the likelihood, you probably have to resort to the typology. In such cases, however, practical application examples cannot be found in the legal order, and it will be difficult to resort to this type of typology in the sense of this practice. Last comment: the question of a claim for damages under Austrian law, even if the injured person is not in Austria and possibly a foreign plant has caused a damage. This is certainly a positive matter for those concerned. The question of enforcement must be followed. Even with an Austrian judgment, that does not mean that you actually come to an achievement. We must also see, I believe, that this law should have a model effect, but that it should not fail to make international efforts to reach an international convention that really regulates such damage. This would also be the more important way for those affected in Austria and in the sense of the chances of success of the process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7142	Next word: Mr Wenitsch. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7164	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In my opinion, it is alarming what some people are dealing with in this country. I have just expected from you – after your fall in the hormone meat scandal – that you will act a little more carefully in the future. I believe that in the case of nuclear power plants there is really only a sensible and possible solution – the request of the liberals – that things like the question of nuclear power generation in the accession negotiations with the applicant countries should naturally be the focus. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I mean, if we don't pick up the opportunity we have now, it will go as much as before EU accession to transit traffic. The then Minister of Transport – I think it was the German Chancellor Mag. Viktor Klima – has always said: Everything will be settled afterwards. – Today we have traffic blinds, look at the situation in Tyrol! The current head of state Wendelin Weingartner is in a terrible state at once. However, when we asked for the question of transit traffic to play a role in the accession negotiations with the European Union at the time, it was not possible to do so. At the time, all the odds, all the drums you had, were given cheaply out of hand. This is precisely the problem that I now see coming back to us on the issue of nuclear power plants. Such mistakes, Mrs. Minister, should not normally repeat themselves. I'm really expecting more of you, since you've been a real burned child since the hormone flesh scandal, which, as it turned out afterwards, was no one. They have already insecured the population at that time. In my opinion, they were more or less placed on the cross by the beef mafia. You should not repeat this mistake. There is only one way to avoid making a mistake on the question of nuclear power plants, namely that this question must very well be involved in the accession negotiations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Minister! I am an independent farmer, I know how to conduct negotiations. When buying a machine, if I want to have accessories to this machine, I have to take it into account, of course, when buying it. This must be contained in the contract of purchase, because in the following days no one will give you anything voluntarily – I really tell you from this point of view. Whoever has ever worked in the private sector in his life knows that a certain care must be taken in the course of negotiations. All that is not taken into account in these negotiations will never be satisfactorily resolved for the citizens of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Mr. Kummerer! You're at the OMV, I wouldn't put myself in your place so much for the private sector, because as "private" as the OMV is now, but it's still being treated by the state as a state-run operation, you can't find such a thing in any other country in the world. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You are the beneficiaries of the mountain law!]] Dear colleague! We already know your OMV, you are beneficiaries of the mountain law! The decent citizens are being raped by this Parliament, by this Republic! But Every year they want to enter the OMV billion-heavy profits at the expense of the workers who will be released to thousands, and at the expense of the private property owners in Austria! Mr. Kummerer! You will probably have to change your mind very strongly on this question in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know your things: You will be corrected more or less by the Constitutional Court, Mr Farnleitner will also be corrected, and what is going on? – Justice, which seems to be in part or in part in your sphere of influence, Mr Minister, that is addressed to you, partly continues the old track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] There people are expropriated under the mountain law, the Constitutional Court recognizes that the mountain law would not have been applied. And what does the District Court do? – The District Court makes a registration through the Basic Book – the OMV is more or less involved there – although it was recognized by the Constitutional Court that this was not subject to the Mountain Law. Minister! I wonder, Where do we live? - That's crazy. These are your assignments! I can already imagine, however, that you, as Minister of the SPÖ, a group of which you are also asked, of course have a good relationship with the OMV, which is obviously the framework of the Social Democratic Members. I just need to look around: half the government is occupied by the OMV. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] From the Minister to the Secretary of State, this is really a cutback! But now I want to continue to comment on nuclear power plants. Mr Kummerer! We'll talk another time, we're not done yet. I would like to say the following: Interestingly, yesterday an additional proposal to the four-party agreement was intruded in the Committee on the Environment. Why, do you think, Mrs. Minister? – Because even the EU Commission has now recognised that nuclear power plants are very likely to play a role in the accession negotiations. [[Call the SPÖ: This is a lawn mower speech!]] I have here the "Kronen Zeitung" issue of last Saturday. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Prammer.]] – Yes, but Mrs. Minister, we have nothing of that. They represent the Austrian citizens here. The Austrian citizens are concerned about these nuclear power plants, because they are, of course, close to us, namely, more or less in the border area. We demand that the concerns of the citizens of Austria be taken into account. That's the point: We do not need a minister who is always serving the EU and who is jealous of what comes from above, but we want you to represent the Austrians in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call for the call.]] Yeah, we know about the SPÖ anyway. Whoever is needed, God decides, thanks not to a representative of the SPÖ, but to the voters in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7289	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wenitsch! To clarify: I belong to the Federal Government, but none of the two parties that bear the Federal Government. I'm also trying to keep an equivalent to the two parties. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Deputies! I cannot accept that you are throwing into space here that a district court would have made a constitutional entry. I very much ask you to tell me the case. We will look at this – the independence of the judiciary intact – and tell you whether your opinion was correct in this regard or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7346	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Brix has now been reported to the House. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the following decision, we continue the Austrian path in the anti-atomic policy. We can continue it because we are trying to convince people in other countries how dangerous nuclear power is in reality, and because we have gone ahead with good example when we decided against Zwentendorf at the time. Mrs Aumayr said here today at the speaker's desk: We will not agree. She spoke literally of a law that endangers the health of the Austrian population. – The FPÖ is the party that will not join this four-party application. My previous speaker was much clearer than he spoke of beef mafia. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! From this point of view, I would like to say that we are grateful to you for warning the Austrian population, as a competent minister, that beef could not be in order. We are glad that you warned the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We thank you for taking on responsibility, even if an agricultural representative comes here to the speaker's desk and says that this was the beef mafia. We are glad that nothing has happened in beef! We are glad that our farmers – and I say so – work decently, but it was the responsibility of the Minister to warn the population. We are grateful for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the FPÖ only makes cheap vortices here, it does not want to warn the people of it at all, something should go along with it in the field of nuclear energy. That is why we ask you to listen to this topic in your conversation with the Czechs in the next few days. I think you can't just threaten another country and say: If you do not rise now, we will not let you into the European Community. I think we should take measures to help these countries to tackle a policy different from nuclear policy. We should offer them other possibilities than that they should be able to obtain electricity from nuclear power plants. Since the FPÖ is so full-fledged before the citizens here, I would like to address another question to you. I take the edition of the "Standard" of 21. April 1998, it reads as follows: Prinzhorn builds its own power line from Bavaria. – Is Mr Prinzhorn now present to the House that he is then referring to nuclear power from Bavaria? Is it not counterproductive to get out of here and bet against a legislative proposal, but to draw nuclear power from Bavaria itself? This again shows that everything the FPÖ promises does not really keep.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7426	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7447	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. Environment Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to regret the fact that today, by voting to abandon the basic consensus of the five parties of the Austrian Parliament, the vote will be taken. I regret that the Freedom Party does not want this basic consensus on my own account. It has to decide whether this will increase the benefits for Austria or whether the damage to Austria will increase. I believe that the second is because, so far, the Austrian anti-atomic policy has been credible because it has been carried by all the political groups in the House. You have left this road today. We will also tell the Austrian population what way the Freedom Party intends to go here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: They will ask why!]] You have opted for the same veto policy as you would like to make foreign policy in the field of anti-atomic policy. It's going through a line. They are the nosagers, and you want to make the people know that you are serving them. As a Carinthian MP, however, I would like to point out the stock of the Krško power plant in Slovenia on the border with Croatia. It is our desire and the concern of this federal country, which I have to represent here, that measures be taken urgently too. The seismic equipment of this nuclear power plant is absolutely not well and not enough. I was able to convince myself that what is available in technical arrangements is not sufficient. It is also an additional danger moment – very close to the Balkan danger zone. If I refer to the fact that the supply of the cooling water for this power plant is carried out without any safeguards, you can certainly imagine the dangerous potential there under unfavourable circumstances. We therefore call for a determined anti-atomic policy to be applied to the Czech Republic and Slovakia and for it to take place with regard to the southern neighbouring country of Austria, Slovenia. This is a legitimate concern of the Federal Republic of Carinthia and also of the whole of Austria. I should like to mention a second aspect which has not yet played a role in the debate, but which is crucial: the extraction of raw materials, the extraction of fuel for nuclear power plants around the world. There is an interesting connection between the Uranium deposits and the habitats of indigenous peoples around the world: These are the Indians in North America, the Aborigines in Australia, the Tibetans in Asia; one could continue the series. There is a lot of injustice in this case, for example, by advocating the Indians' rights in Canada, moving the warehouses to the settlement areas and reserves of the Indians, and then providing the waste material to the indigenous peoples – in this case to the Indians – as a building material. In Tibet too, the presence of uranium is one of the main reasons for the occupation of this area, and there are massive attacks by the Chinese state against the indigenous population in Tibet. – I believe that if one sees what is wrong only in the extraction of fuel for nuclear power plants, then the reason would be to enforce anti-atomic policies worldwide. I would like to mention a third aspect. The Green Group has always made maximum demands in the context of anti-atomic policy. Mr Oellinger! We will observe you carefully, we will see exactly how many nuclear power stations are closed after the government participation of the Greens in Germany, how many reprocessing plants are closed, how many nuclear transports no longer take place, and especially where you want to carry out the final storage. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] We will measure you as a green person in the actions of your brothers in Germany. I'm sure you'll make huge cuts from your maximum demands.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7502	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7524	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Dear Members! I believe that the national and international aspects of this debate have been thoroughly dealt with. I would therefore like to limit myself – like some of my previous speakers – to the local aspect. In this debate, Mr Wenitsch tried to confuse the local aspect of herb and herb, which he succeeded in enhancing the House. Federal Minister! To explain, I would like to bring a quote from a newspaper article without mentioning names. There is a farmer in the wine district who believes that he is seriously damaged by a management of his property. – That’s his good right to believe that. It is also his right to take the right course. I take this newspaper article from the fact that the farmer was offered a compensation of 30 s per square metre for a right of service; [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Red’ a bit longer!]] Servictutrecht means he tolerates the line and can use his property as before. In order to bring this into agricultural dimensions now, ladies and gentlemen: 30 S per square meter means 300 000 S per hectare for an agricultural area. Ladies and gentlemen! 300 000 s per hectare only for the right to have a line at a depth of one and a half meters and to be able to perform a use! This is not enough for this farmer in the wine district, as already mentioned – I do not call any name –. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! There are, of course, legitimate concerns in the population of the wine district: Anxiety with regard to the development of nuclear technology, concerns about the development of nuclear energy. The wine district is the region in Lower Austria, where Slovakia is bordered in the north of the Czech Republic and in the east. There are legitimate concerns about the pollution transmissions that come to us from our neighbouring countries, and there are legitimate concerns as to how Easter enlargement will affect, in particular on transport and on the labour market. We also see in the wine district the positive aspects of such an EU Easter enlargement, and we want a consensus to be reached in partnership negotiations with which all parties can live. You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, don't want to. You have already told us a number of times that you do not have a yes to Easter enlargement, and for this every argument has to be made. Today's argument is the nuclear power, the nuclear power plants you are yanktimizing. And I do not think I must be a prophet to say that this will certainly not be the last junkim that we will hear here in the House so that you can find arguments to support your No to enlargement. However, we will not be affected by this on our way, on the path of consensus, on the way of negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's policy, the coalition parties and the policy of the opposition parties over a long period of time were successful. Mrs Prammer mentioned it: Our position will be heard. We have more and more friends in Europe who follow our point of view. But the exit from technology without a future does not go from today to tomorrow, it will take decades. I recall that 437 nuclear power plants are currently on the grid worldwide and that 36 reactor blocks are still under construction or planning in 14 states. Dear Members! Dear colleagues! In addition to the political factor, the direct and indirect costs of nuclear power will also be recognised as an economic factor, and they will help us to support construction stops, reorganisations and to reach the exit in the long term. The wine district, ladies and gentlemen, takes positive note of the efforts of the Government and Parliament. We see successes in reducing existing and avoiding additional risks. We want to support and promote the transition of neighbouring countries to more environmentally friendly technologies. We want to be exposed to lower transmissions than we have today. I wish the Federal Government and Parliament a great deal of success on this path!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7559	Mr Wenitsch has made a statement on an actual correction. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please explain first the case to be corrected and then add the correction with no emotion. – 2 minutes total time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7584	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kummerer said from this point of view that the farmer concerned would be 300 000 s per hectare. I'll put it right: The affected farmer gets for the OMV to cross 14 hectares of land with a power line, a total compensation of 72,000 p. – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7616	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Schweitzer. Second word. A maximum of 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7638	Mr President. My dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer has bitterly complained that the Freedom Party has left the anti-Atom line that has been carried together so far. Mr Wurmitzer! "The nuclear energy may be a very great opportunity for mankind, but we will still have to invest a lot of money and also time in research. It would be just too irresponsible not to want to develop this young technology further." [[Call the SPÖ: How old is it?]] – Marilies Flemming, his current Minister for the Environment of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this is what line the ÖVP really represents in the nuclear question. This young technology wants to develop it further, and therefore it does not want binding exit concepts to be put on the table, together with an obligation from Austria not to agree to an accession of Eastern European countries if this is not the case. But I would like to give you once again the opportunity to follow the obviously thoughtful Upper Austrian colleagues of your group by agreeing to the request that I will now make. This proposal has been made in cooperation with the Upper Austrian colleagues of the Social Democrats, the ÖVP and the Greens. I now make this request – that is, a multi-party consensus from Upper Austria, brought in by the liberals! –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an application that consistently continues the Austrian anti-atom line. Whoever is for it is on line, who is against it, has left the line. - So much to think about.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7720	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would have to interrupt you in less than a minute to call for an urgent request. Do you want to start? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Afterwards!]] - Good. I therefore interrupt the negotiations on agenda item 1 and come to the call for an urgent question. Request by Dr. Harald Ofner, Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner and comrades to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on the continued violation of human rights in the Czech Republic and Slovenia (4950/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7753	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 4950/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7909	I give Mr Dr. Ofner as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e7930	Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where is the Minister?]] My two gentlemen present Federal Minister – I hope that the truly competent one will give us the honour of his presence – High House! The European Union demands the consistency of the applicants for accession. At the 1993 Copenhagen European Council, as a prerequisite for membership, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities have been standardised by applicants within their borders. At its Luxembourg meeting in December last year, the European Council reaffirmed its position on the accession of Cyprus, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. At the same time, it noted that compliance with the political criteria, i.e. respect and respect for human rights, respect and protection of minorities, were essential conditions for the opening of accession negotiations. The European Union is also prepared to put the condition of these conditions into practice. We all remember that Slovakia has taken a trip from Brussels. It has, among other things, been accused of not taking the rights of the Hungarian minority seriously within its borders. Slovakia has since been committed to staying in the waiting room for accession. [[The speaker turned to Dr. Schüssel, who was sitting on the government bench.]] Ah, you came. Thank you. I missed that. I'm glad you're here. I already wanted to raise the question of what to do if the Minister does not come. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I've been here point three!]] It's wonderful. I would ask you not to regard this as disrespectful: I missed you. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: One minute before 15:00!]] I am pleased that the Federal Minister is here. I wanted to talk to him directly. It is my concern, which is not a party-political concern – I am convinced of it; I will not make any of it – especially important. However, as pious as the European Union has been to Slovakia, it seems so generous without pointing it out to be with the Czech Republic and Slovenia. In the Czech Republic there are still, as we all know, the so-called Beneš decrees. These are post-war statutes, which are still in force and are still being applied by Czech courts – I recall the decision of the Constitutional Court in Brno in the Causa Dreithaler. So that you can imagine something below, I can read some of these decrees: ==References== May 1945: "The assets of the State unreliable persons in the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic shall be placed under national administration in accordance with the further provisions of this Decree." And so that you know what it means: "As stately unreliable persons: Persons of German or Madjar nationality." ==References== June 1945 – everything after the end of the war –: "With immediate effectiveness and indemnity, for the purpose of soil reform, the agricultural assets owned by all persons of German and Madjar nationality are expropriated without regard to nationality." ==References== August 1945: "The Czechoslovak citizens of German or Madjar nationality lose Czechoslovak citizenship with the day when this decree enters into force." ==References== October 1945: "The immovable and movable assets are confiscated without compensation, including property rights such as claims, securities, deposits, intangible rights of physical persons of German or Madjarian nationality." The law of the 8th century was particularly impressive. May 1946 – exactly one year after the end of the war – that standards: "An action that occurred in the time of 30. September 1938 to 28. October 1945", i.e. until half a year after the end of the war, "and the purpose of which was to contribute to the fight for the recovery of the freedom of the Czechs and Slovaks, or to the goal of a fair retribution for actions by the Occupants or their helpers" – one has not had to meet, it has already achieved the goal – "is not illegal, even if otherwise it would have been punishable according to the applicable rules." . We know what has gone ahead of the horrendous crimes committed by all of us, ladies and gentlemen. These Beneš decrees are valid legal assets in the Czech Republic. They shall be applied by courts. Top representatives of the Czech State confess to these rules and emphasize that it is not possible to get them out of the world. This must be kept in mind if we look at the requirements for candidates for accession to the EU quoted by me at the outset. But there is also a minority of German tongues within the borders of the Czech Republic. Pessimists estimate their number on 60,000 heads, optimists speak of 200,000 people who belong to them. This group is not recognized as such. She has no rights whatsoever. Zero rights! – This is the second factor. Factor number one: the illegal, total illegal Beneš decrees. Factor number two: Minorities – at least those who address us, for whom we understand ourselves as a protective power – without even the minimum rights. A leap to Slovenia: What are the Beneš decrees in the Czech Republic are the AVNOJ provisions in Slovenia. I can read something from it again: "With the day of the entry into force of this Decision, the ownership of the State shall be the property of all the assets of persons belonging to German nationality." Next AVNOJ provision: "A confiscation of assets is the compulsory, indemnification-free removal of the entire property, which is personal property or the personal share of common assets of other persons, in favour of the state", concretely by persons of German nationality. What about the rights of minorities in the territory of Slovenia? – The Slovenian Constitution originally provided that Italians, Hungary, the Old Austrian German tongue and, unfortunately, only in weakened form, the Roma and Sinti were recognized and equipped with appropriate rights. The Italians, Hungary and the Roma and Sinti remain. The Altösterreicher German tongue, whose existence has now been established in an opinion of the renowned university professor Karner – an opinion that has been drawn up on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government – do not have any rights, are also not recognised accordingly. So, as in the present Czech Republic, in Slovenia, legal property which does not meet the requirements of human rights in any way: here the Beneš decrees, there the AVNOJ provisions; and a deal with minorities and their rights, which also does not meet the requirements of the European Union to candidate countries, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are now in the process of getting serious with the accession negotiations. We all know that the next meeting of this kind will take place in October of this year, and there will be very intense negotiations next month in November. With regard to the current problem, or even unsolicited, top representatives of the Republic of Austria, including the highly revered President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and, above all, Foreign Minister Schüssel, can be heard that it is only bilateral issues and that bilateral issues should only be dealt with bilaterally. – I can only object to this, especially as a lawyer, with all determination! Human rights problems, protection and recognition of minorities, the establishment of minorities with ethnic groups rights are never bilateral problems! These problems concern the whole Community, in particular the European Community and every state and every citizen within that Community. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For the right is indivisible, rights are indivisible, and human rights are indivisible. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] You can't pick out a part and say: That is nothing to do with the rest of Europe! This is exclusively the case of the Austrians. We do not take this as important as one or the other might wish. We already care about the people themselves. – Mr Foreign Minister! I can't! The problem of the violation of human rights in the Czech Republic and Slovenia, the disregard for the rights of minorities in these countries are not bilateral problems! These are problems that concern us all in Europe and, in addition, as I claim, all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is necessary to imagine what this would mean for the Union and for its citizens, in the event that both countries should continue to be members of the European Union, while maintaining these rules of human rights: Firstly, the existence of these rules would be contrary to the prohibition of discrimination because they would mean that other citizens of the European Union would be subject to severe discrimination in these two countries, not through historical reminiscences, only because of their nationality and linguisticity. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot imagine that this would be in the sense of the inventors or fathers, in the sense of the peoples and in the sense of the representatives of the peoples of the European Union! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, the principle of free movement within the European Union, which is known to be one of the pillars of the Community, would be seriously threatened if everyone who is German-speaking and German-speaking, wherever he lives, in Liechtenstein, the Liechtensteinians were and are equally affected, in Austria, in Germany or in other countries, and intends to take a residence in the Czech Republic or in Slovenia, so that politicians or courts can find themselves explaining the rules, Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions quoted by me: I can't! Similarly, this principle would be seriously threatened if someone who has initially slipped through and settled there – which is allowed to him and must be allowed under the rules of the European Union – had to expect to turn around sometime and put him back out of the country. All these are developments that the European Union is unable to do and observe quietly, and Austria as a Presidency power in these days is called upon to perceive not only the interests of Austria, not only the Old Austrian German tongue, but the interests of the whole union with all its citizens in this direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is our Austrians who, because of our historical commitment and because of the geographical circumstances, know exactly what it is about, who know it better than the representatives of other European states and members of the European Union. We are obliged to perceive the interests of all those from Ireland to Denmark and from Italy to Greece in the sense that in all States wishing to join, it will ensure that their legal matter is cleansed of human rights and that the groups living there are recognised and treated properly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The efforts so far, as far as they have been serious at all, which has not always been clearly recognizable, to achieve "bilateral" with Slovenia and with the Czech Republic have at least remained totally unsuccessful. But now there is a chance, as it has never been in the past decades and as it will never come again: The European Council's requirements – I have quoted them – are clear. It is equally clear that the two countries mentioned do not meet these requirements. And Austria has the power to enforce, in accordance with the principle of unanimity, that human rights can take place in these two countries and that minorities and groups are properly cared for. We got it in our hands! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I should like to point out that I am not the only one who takes the view that the Beneš decrees and also the AVNOJ provisions are illegal to human rights. I quote in this context, for example, the ÖVP member Höchtl, who is not here today. Höchtl noted that "these Beneš decrees were already illegal in the adoption of human rights and international law". He called them "as pure racial laws against German-speaking and Hungarian-speaking residents of the Czechoslovakia at that time, who are not allowed to have a place in today's European community of values and law". Höchtl strongly advocated a change in the legal situation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] Fassleven is not here at all today, so not only at this item on the agenda. Minister of Defense Fassleven also expressed his views only a few days ago, namely on 14 March. September: The Beneš decrees did not lose anything in a rule of law in the evening of Fassland and were abolished. – Not only Harald Ofner, not only liberties and other Members in the banks of this hall, but also, as I have quoted, a member of the government of the ÖVP and a member of the ÖVP believe that this is illegal and must be removed! Foreign Minister! You got it in your hand! The coat of history – as it is so beautiful – wanders through the hall. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not the coat, the ghost!]] You can take the opportunity, but you can't take responsibility and let things slip. You can rely that in the future you would certainly achieve less bilaterally than you could at present be. I believe that if you do not take the opportunity to benefit from human rights in the Czech Republic, in favour of human rights in Slovenia, in favour of the Old Austrian German tongue as a minority in one and the other. You got it in your hand! You got the foot in the door! The principle of unanimity still applies within the EU. You are required to intervene there as a representative of the Protection Force of Austria! You are required to do something in this sector! You are required not to rely on the goodwill of the others who have not yet been proved! I would ask you not to abandon your responsibility and to abandon the human rights and the affected Altösterreicher German tongues in the two countries mentioned!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8087	To answer the question, Mr Vice-Chancellor has reported himself. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8109	Mr President. High house! I don't know if I can comply with the 20-minute limit on speaking time. I have received numerous questions to answer. I will, however, make a great effort to remain within this time frame. First of all, I would like to point out in general that nothing separates us from the assessment of the importance of human rights, the rights of the ethnic groups, the protection of individual persecuted citizens. I do not think there is anyone here in the house, no matter which one of the five political groups he belongs to, who did not solidarity with the victims of the events of the time that were triggered by one of the darkest chapters of our history and which also led to problems and very dark chapters in the history of our neighbouring countries, and felt pity in the truest sense of the word and the necessary responsibility. There is no doubt about that, as I mean. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, we must ask the question very well – this must be as permitted for us: What path leads to the goal? Which way is the best way to work out the story? Is it the right way to operate with threats and with junkims, or is it the right way to gradually try to introduce the European rule of law into countries that have so far only had a very, very modest tradition with the rule of law, with European integration, with human rights, with minority protection and people's rights? I think that should be put at the beginning. We have – and this has always been borne by the overwhelming majority of this House – decided on the gradual path of the integration of these countries into the European legal order, including the human rights system. I believe that this is a wise way to go. I shall now take the liberty to answer the individual questions that have been asked very detailedly, also in detail. I assume that the relevant text of the question is known so that I do not have to repeat the question. Question 1: In the conclusions of the Luxembourg European Council of December last year, point 25 reads as follows: "The compliance with Copenhagen's political criteria is an essential prerequisite for the opening of accession negotiations." – This clearly addresses human rights, minority rights, the commitment to democracy, the market economy et cetera. The Commission’s assessment of those five Central and Eastern European candidate countries with which the European Commission has recommended the opening of accession negotiations – including the Czech Republic and Slovenia – is consistent with the following: "As a result of the analysis it has carried out, the Commission finds that the respective State – Slovenia and the Czech Republic are included – "has the characteristics of a democracy with stable institutions that guarantee the rule of law, human rights and respect for minorities and their protection." The Presidency's report – then Luxembourg – to the European Council states that the Commission's assessment includes "a good overall analysis of the situation of individual candidate countries in the light of the accession criteria established by the Copenhagen European Council". – This finding is also literally included in the conclusions of the Luxembourg European Council. On question 2: This question is so simple not to answer if you are quite honest. Because it is not possible to make today's young Slovenian Republic responsible for acts which, in my opinion, are absolutely not... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Can I make my answer related? One cannot and must not blame the young democratic Slovenian Republic today for one-off acts adopted in the socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They will be maintained now! That is the law in force!]] The Czech Republic today cannot be held responsible for the establishment of acts of the Czechoslovak Republic at that time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Before you get upset, although it's a matter of fact, I'm quoting you now... [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is simple and simply wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's a cowardice!]] Before you say that this is a joke or whatever, I quote to you one, like I mean, unwarranted witnesses, namely university professor Karl Zemanek, the authority in the field of international law, to which lawyer Ofner will certainly be able to agree at any time. I bring a literal quote from an opinion which was completed at the end of September this year. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sure, he wrote an opinion on behalf of the government!]] What, then, does this assumption mean that an expert is only given a mandate to deal with an important question? Leave Mr Haider. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Zemanek says literally: "Since the illegality of international law to be claimed would have arisen from one-off acts at the time, it would be solely responsible for the author of the overthrown socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia." [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I quote you an absolutely unwarranted opinion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Tito decisions are defended by the Austrian Foreign Minister, which is incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] If the House is interested in the answer, I would like to continue. The so-called AVNOJ provisions and the Beneš decrees are, of course, to be seen in connection with the tragic events around the Second World War. The AVNOJ provisions are not part of the present constitution of Slovenia, but individual laws of the Republic of Slovenia are indirectly due to these provisions, especially in the field of property law, namely denationalisation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Home distribution now means "denationalization"! It's incredible!]] The Beneš decrees are also not part of the current constitution of the Czech Republic. The problem is that they have never been formally removed from their legal system, which, by the way, if you are honest, has for a long time not been done by other very established democracies, which have been shaped by the dark era of National Socialism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Question 3: The European Commission considers that the rule of law in the Czech Republic and in Slovenia is in line with the Copenhagen criteria. With regard to the exact interpretation of the Avis formulas in this regard, I refer to my answer to question 1. Question 4: In principle, what I said about Question No 3 was what I said earlier. However, Article 6 of the Amsterdam Treaty, which has not yet entered into force, explicitly refers to the European Convention on Human Rights. The final legal assessment of whether the legislation in force in Slovenia and the Czech Republic is in line with European standards and the principles of the European Union would therefore be subject to the Court of Justice of the European Community, the ECJ, in Luxembourg, in the case of the definition of the legal path by affected citizens, also in individual cases, independent courts and, lastly, to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or, in the case of the accession of those countries, to the Court of Justice of the European Community, the ECJ. In connection with Question No 5, I refer to the Avis of the European Commission. On question 6: As the European Commission has stated in its opinion, the provisions of the international human rights agreements referred to in Article 10 of the Czech Constitution have priority over national provisions and are therefore directly applicable. This includes, last but not least, the framework convention of the Council of Europe on the protection of minorities for the Czech Republic. ==References====External links== Slovenia adopted this Council of Europe Convention on 25 June. ==References====External links== Slovenia and the Czech Republic now belong to this Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities as Contracting States. It must therefore be assumed that the two States are committed to the principles contained in this Treaty and comply with the obligations laid down in the Convention. Question 7: On the question of whether such problems should be dealt with bilaterally, I absolutely agree with Mr Ofner: There are issues – and human rights and the validity of international conventions are undoubtedly one that cannot be discussed bilaterally. That's perfectly clear. For, of course, the validity of human rights applies to all the signatorys of such conventions, and it is even universal in the area of the declaration of human rights. The crucial point, however, is how we actually deal with things. And we have set ourselves the goal that at every bilateral meeting, we can really relate and address the relevant issues that concern, for example, the displaced, as far as they live in Austria. Mr Ofner! I say quite openly: The term "protection power" is a bit of a mistake. I think it should not be used in this context for good reason. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is a concept of international law!]] This is also a concept of international law, and for this very reason I believe that this term is not appropriate in this context. But, of course, the commitment to develop bilaterally all relevant issues of history and, of course, to the right of Austrian citizens should not be shaken. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Question 8: It is clear that the European Union's legal system is under discussion during the accession negotiations. It's no different either! We are negotiating the comprehensive and absolute adoption of EU law into the legal system of these new candidate countries. In this context too, I refer to the Avis of the Commission and the membership of both States of the European Convention on Human Rights and the relevant international instruments. A key element in the accession process is the pre-accession strategy in the light of legal harmonisation. This was the moment to enter into the Europe Agreements, which were concluded with all the candidate countries from Central and Eastern Europe. There is with each of these countries a separate subcommittee of the Association Committee on approximation of laws. With regard to property compensation for the displaced persons from the former Czechoslovakia or Yugoslavia, I regularly use each of my bilateral contacts with the foreign ministers of the two countries to resolve the still open questions. On the question 9: I can only represent the common position of the European Union during the time of the Austrian Presidency – and the question is about what I am going to discuss as President of the Council – which I am happy to do; and it will also involve the Austrian position. The concrete negotiations that will begin in November will focus on the following chapters: Science and research, telecommunications and information technology, education, training and youth, small and medium-sized enterprises, industrial policy, cultural and audiovisual policy, common foreign and security policy. . On all these points, of course, I will formulate the common position of the European Union vis-à-vis the candidate countries. Question 10: The constant efforts of the Austrian Federal Government have also contributed to the beginning of a slow process of change in the Czech Republic, and it can be said that it has so far been too slow. But at least – and this too should be registered by the House – the votes within the Czech Republic increase, which question the legality of the Beneš decrees. Consider the recent opinion of a group of Czech intellectuals! I would also like to point out that President Havel, in a remarkable gesture on the occasion of the recent visit of our President Thomas Klestil in Prague, has recently called the expulsion immoral. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's nothing! That's a nullum!]] Excuse me a lot! I think it is absolutely positive that the Czech President sees it this way, knowing that not all politicians in the Czech Republic and not all levels of population in that country see it that way. In any case, I thank Vaclav Havel for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria's efforts in the framework of bilateral contacts have also led Prime Minister Zeman, on his recent visit to Vienna has announced the establishment of a historic commission to deal with the necessary processing of the past. On the question 11: The Slovenian side agreed that solutions should be sought in the framework of bilateral expert discussions. To this end, an Austrian and Slovenian Special Representative were also assigned to the joint view of the pending cases and to the search for appropriate solutions. Question 12: The Federal Government is striving to recognise the existence and rights of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia and to promote its concerns. In January of this year, I agreed with the Slovenian Foreign Minister Boris Frlec to provide for the joint promotion of the concerns and interests of the German-speaking population in Slovenia under a cultural agreement to be concluded. All know that there are difficulties in the Slovenian Parliament. The text of the Agreement was essentially completed in June of this year; there is agreement between the Slovenian Minister and me to clarify the remaining open points in further negotiations. Yesterday, on the verge of the European Conference, I re-examined this question with him, and he informed me that the foreign policy committee of the Slovenian Parliament had now given me the mandate for certain formulations which were still open to this cultural agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What formulations were these?]] We hope that the proposals put forward by both sides will now be examined and that new negotiations will then be held with a view to the completion of the cultural agreement in the near future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the question 13: The German-speaking minority in the Czech Republic is essentially summarized in the following two associations: at the National Assembly of Germans in Bohemia, Moravia and Schleswig and in the Cultural Association of the Germans in the Czech Republic. Both associations – the difference to Slovenia – are officially registered with the Council of Minorities. This minority council is under the office of the Prime Minister and is headed by the government representative for human rights in the person of former dissident Petr Uhl. This registration also means that, unlike Slovenia, both associations are stakeholders of state resources. The Austrian Embassy in Prague has frequent contact with the representatives of the German national teams in Bohemia, Moravia and Schleswig. There has so far been no desire for bilateral talks or similar cultural agreements. But, of course, I am open to this wish when this desire is expressed to us by the side of the Germans in Bohemia, Moravia and Schleswig. On the question of 14, the last question is: We didn't give a chance. On the contrary: I believe that through our efforts we have opened up many opportunities at all. As I have already pointed out in paragraph 6, in the Czech Republic, the provisions of the international human rights agreements have priority over national provisions and apply directly. This includes the framework convention of the Council of Europe, as well as Slovenia. I would also like to remind the applicants known as opponents of the European Union and as opponents of Austria's accession to the European Union of the following: Austria, in a consistent continuation of its neighbourhood policy, which has made a lasting contribution to the turnaround in Eastern Europe and towards the end of Communist rule, and in the interests of maintaining security and stability in Europe, strives to support the EU's accession efforts of the Central and Eastern European States, while respecting our own interests. This enlargement, at the heart of Europe's progressive integration, provides the best guarantee to strengthen peace on the continent and stability in the future new member countries of the Union and to effectively address the dangers of nationalism, which led to the Second World War and its terrible consequences, which also affected the displaced. I mean and tell you quite openly: The people who were displaced are the group who suffered from all the victims of National Socialism the longest after the end of the Second World War under the consequences of this terror rule. Tens of thousands were killed, hundreds of thousands were expropriated, millions were driven out. Nor does injustice suddenly become right through the passing of time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we should do everything we can to enable and not make it difficult for history to be reworked in these countries, just as we have found from our own and not from outside pressure to our own work on Austrian history. The local displaced people in Austria need our solidarity and commitment: They are best served by opening the door to EU accession to these Central European countries! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For with this they have the opportunity to acquire land and land again in their former homeland. They have the opportunity to move back to their home country if they want to. You have the opportunity to build up companies. You can do all that is not so easy today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's totally wrong what you're saying!]] The junkims of their demands with EU enlargement, repeatedly demanded by the liberals, would help precisely those nationalist forces in the candidate countries that are most opposed to the concerns of the displaced and minorities. Nationalists in the Czech Republic and probably in Slovenia would probably take this language gratefully in order to resist the most sustainable integration into a European legal order. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I close. I believe that the gradual efforts towards Europeanisation of human rights and the legal systems in these countries are much better than the brachial policies that obviously want others. I'm not available for the latter!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8382	We are now going into the debate. Each club has a speaking time of 25 minutes. Single speaking time limit: 10 minutes. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Graf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8409	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear countrymen here in the house! [[in the direction of audience gallery]] Mr Minister, it is almost terrifying to hear your words here in this context. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After all that you have said here and today about these human rights problems, I believe that you are the lawyer of the Czech Republic, but not that of the displaced, the displaced, our compatriots, who are our voters and for whom, of course, we bear responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Minister, have said that the question arises which path leads to the goal. [[Move the gallery.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: They're going! It's enough for them!]] That's what I'm giving you. That is the crucial question. Once again, it must be clearly and clearly stated that the path so far has been unsuccessful. That is really the case. [[Congratulations on the Freeman.]] Where are the successes? They are trying hard to tell the House some successes. They are speaking of two special representatives to bring about a solution to pending cases in Slovenia. For over a year, there have been a number of such pending cases, but no one has been solved so far! There has not even been actual negotiations. That's your place. What Does Your Special Representative there? It's all being packed in beautiful words. A cultural agreement will be concluded on which it depends on some wording. The fact is that recognition is not at all in sight, there is none at all. No recognition of ethnic group rights! This is a question of extremely nebulous formulations, in which the same method is established in Slovenia, but also in the Czech Republic, where only time is sought. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You must recognize, as the minister responsible for this, that you only want to gain time on this issue and rely on the time factor, until the last directly concerned displaced persons no longer reside among us, because this is perhaps the problem from the table! We're not playing with that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! They are talking about "bilateral negotiations", but they are not taking place. What do you think are negotiations? – Perhaps coffee strategist and other pudding take place in rooms of diplomats. The fact is that no negotiations are taking place. What are the negotiations? Mr Schieder, you will be speaking as the next speaker anyway; perhaps you will tell us then. It is not said at which level is being negotiated, and there is no negotiation visa. The visa of negotiation does not go into negotiations at all! It is as if you were reaching out – and no one is taking it. The topics have not been defined. There is no agenda, and it is not even spoken of when negotiations are under way. The fact that one may have problems with when negotiations are over, and that one sets an appointment for that, would still be seen. But we are not even talking about the beginning of the negotiations. Minister! You said you'd take any chance and don't let anything pass. One of these opportunities, indeed the most important, is to introduce an absolute veto in the accession negotiations of these countries by the Austrian Government. In the next six months, Germany will have the EU presidency. One could at last make an independent EU policy and give Germany a lot on this issue. I mean, it would be useful to bring in something independent on the Austrian side at last and not always to pray for what has previously been said by Kinkel or perhaps to say Joschka Fischer in the future. This is really not the task of our foreign and EU policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you say that the young Czech or Slovenian Republic is not responsible, I already have to disagree with you in a specific way. Almost every politician in the Czech Republic, but also in Slovenia, still wins elections today when he reaffirms the maintenance of these illegal decrees by Beneš and the AVNOJ provisions and uses them as a campaign. Every Czech and every Slovenian in the political debate is a nationalist. You have to take note of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Miloš Zeman has also won elections. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: But, of course, the liberals are not nationalists!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Nowotny, don't blame!]] We from the FPÖ are not National Socialists, but we are not nationalists either. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] The FPÖ is an Austrian party; that is right. But that hurts you, I know, because you do not represent the interests of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Deutsche Zunge!]] This has also been said by your former Federal President Renner, who has always spoken of the "German tongue", also and consciously in this context. You'll never be able to discuss that away! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bruno Kreisky would turn around in the grave!]] [[Calls and calls between the liberals and the SPÖ.]] But the attitude of the socialists – and this is really dangerous about this – is known to us. For example, the SP-Federal managing director, the Federal Chancellor's name, made it on the 10th. In September 1998, the communication concerned that one must understand this situation, because, as a result of the political situation of the post-war years, such laws and decrees as they have been adopted were all too understandable, it had to come about. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who said that?]] This was said by SP-Federal Managing Director Rudas, who now sets out the SPÖ line, and he said that on 10 June. September 1998 on behalf of the Federal Chancellor. [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] You have to say that, please. These are all too understandable regulations, they had to come more or less, it was said. They were almost God-willed, against which one cannot fight and thus... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Do you know what happened in the war?]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] Of course I know what happened in the war. But we only have short speaking times now; You have the opportunity to speak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Bruno Kreisky would turn around in the grave! "Mr. Nowotny, learn story!", would say Kreisky!]] In this situation, I would already be interested in the position of Mr Schieder. I would be interested if he also felt that this had been done quite understandably, in some way God’s will, and that it should not be allowed to be agitated. [[Abg. Scheibner: That means people are guilty themselves!]] What really is the point of social democracy? To date, there have been no explanations as to whether this is really the point of social democracy, that it is left out in bilateral negotiations – and not a junk in the context of accession negotiations of these countries. Minister! You've delivered a really sad spectacle here and today. I would recommend you to contact the "House of Home" and see the exhibition there in order to know about the extermination camps that were built in Slovenia, but also in the Czech Republic, in which hundreds of thousands of people have died. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] There has been ethnically "cleanned" and there people have been killed, only because of the ethnicity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ten thousand "Denationalized"!]] If you call it "denationalization", I believe that this is a real indisposition that I can't agree with. You, Minister, should really be better informed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel) Cynic!]] However, on the part of the ÖVP, this issue will be addressed as follows: On Sunday speakers will be sent out to the local authorities, but they will not be on the list of speakers in the debate. And this includes, for example, Mr Höchtl, who always finds the right words there, but in the votes he always has a different opinion or must bow to the coalitionary compulsion – or he is completely lacking. I am also disappointed that Mr König is not now on the speaker's list, which otherwise takes a pointed position on this issue, but it is obvious that today only speakers are sent out by the ÖVP who take a Czech-friendly but anti-human position. [[Abg. Böhacker: Liner!]] You have to say that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you have cited in this context a well-known international law expert who has produced an opinion, I would like to draw your attention to the numerous opinions drawn up by a Member of this House, who was also a international law expert. [[Abg. Smolle: Mr Colleague! Aren't you Chechen-friendly?]] I would like to point out to you that Mr Felix Ermacora has spoken quite differently in every respect that you have done today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that to be able to say that Felix Ermacora would turn around in the grave in this foreign policy of Austria today, he could hear Austria act on this question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is no coincidence that Austria's lukewarm attitude on this issue will ultimately lead to a success in the sense of the Czechs. You do not even address this question in your foreign policy reports. Since 1994, since the departure of Federal Minister Dr. Mock from this office, there has been nothing more about the question of the Sudeten Germans, nothing more about the displaced. There may still be some information on cultural agreements there or there, but there is nothing left in the foreign policy reports on this issue that you are supposed to have bilateral negotiations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A "denationalized" report is that!]] We have not only kept this to you once, but have already kept it several times. They have not yet managed to make this ethnic "cleaning" a subject of UNHCR.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8767	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8783	This is a pity, because this issue belongs to the UNHCR at last. Anyone who does not condemn this topic, this "denationalization", as you say, or ethnic "cleaning" to the SudetenGerman and German-speaking Slovenians everywhere and always and in sharpest form, will ultimately also contribute to the advance of further ethnic "cleanings" in our time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8813	Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e8834	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Eight comments on this request – if the time is sufficient. First: The year 1945 certainly cannot be separated from the terrible years before, be seen loose from the crimes of National Socialism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: But not freed from the crimes!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want to make a bill?]] Secondly, The expulsion of all persons from Czechoslovakia in 1945, which has become known for the German or Madjar nationality since 1929, is a major injustice. There have been many deaths, and that must not be forgotten. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Peter, say the word "crime"! Put that in your mouth!]] It is important to deal with this question. The Czech Republic and also the Slovak Republic are strong enough and sufficiently solidified in their democracy that they can find official clear words on the question of the Beneš decrees. There were approaches by President Havel, understanding the Austrian attitude of Prime Minister Zeman. Unfortunately, the real step towards questioning these laws is not dared. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then you have to force them!]] This is unfortunate for those concerned, but it is also regrettable for those who do not have the courage to admit what was wrong in their own past. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Austrian Foreign Minister's attitude is no wonder!]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: I fully agree with you that this is not just a bilateral question, but, of course, a European problem. However, I am not in favour of this question being Europeanised in the sense of being linked to EU accession. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If otherwise not!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The following question must not only be allowed, but it is also useful to examine whether, in a country's internal pressure from outside, historical or even partly current injustice can really be overcome, whether economic pressure, pressure on integration can lead to an internal insight. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If it's not different!]] We Social Democrats think it is wrong to link the legitimate demand for an understanding of the injustice to the Sudeten Germans – I say: also to the Gotscheer Germans – with the question of EU membership. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then you have to let the Milošević be granted!]] We are therefore entirely in agreement with what has been said by numerous representatives of Austria. German Chancellor Klima has also said very clearly 14 days ago that the question of the Sudeten Germans should not be linked to the question of the Czech Republic's accession to the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen: The legal statements on EU membership and on the matter in Avis have already been presented by the Foreign Minister. I believe that this should not be a question of accession, I am of course in favour of further consideration within the European Union. It should not, however, become a crucial condition for whether to include someone in the EU or not. And that brings me to the fifth point: Similar action has also been taken in the Council of Europe. This has not been made a question of accession. However, there is, of course, the possibility of bringing complaints before the Commission in the monitoring process, in actions before the European Court of Justice, which are pending, in relation to minority rights, to relevy all of this. This has already been done by Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Sixteenths: I think it is good not to threaten, in relations with neighbouring countries with whom you are friends, the rod of non-membership to deal with something. I believe that the German Chancellor's climate is correct in saying that this is where historians are to work. [[Call to the liberals: put everything on the long bench!]] I think it is right that the bowl has said that it is trying to move with the cultural agreement. It is important that we awaken our understanding here. And it also serves the cause of those concerned more than if one were threatened with a rod. Seventh point: Ladies and gentlemen, there is also an obligation of Austria to do and help itself so that the Sudeten Germans can remain in their culture, in their tradition, in their identity. Austria also has a past to deal with in this matter. We know what ungood statements have been made in 1945, for example: Should they go to Germany!, starting from Figl and from others who expressed themselves in the direction of a selective recording. Austria also has something to do with it itself, and it also serves this matter. Eighth and last, ladies and gentlemen: I asked myself what the urgency of this question lies in. Of course, one can always say that such a topic is urgent, but besides this general "necessity": What is the special urgency of this issue being presented in these days and in these weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Austria has the EU Presidency! That's why!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In January 1996, the beginning of negotiations with the Czech Republic would have given rise in June 1996 to those with Slovenia. In July 1997 it would have been a time for Avis. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have submitted the requests!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We did this every year!]] In December 1997, when the European Council took decisions, and in March, when bilateral negotiations began, it was also necessary to do so. Why, please, does this happen specifically and right now? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Because Austria has the EU Presidency!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You must already have the public suspicion that this has something to do with the fact that there is a great deal of discussion in Austria, which is with the victims of National Socialism, the role of the Austrian banks and what was with the forced workers at Austrian companies. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Peter, please read the request!]] Mr. Ofner! The historian Karner, whom you have just quoted here, warns us all to tap into the Haider case, namely, Holocaust and Sudetendeutsche. He literally – I quote – said: That would be the absolutely wrong signal now. It would give all over the world the impression that Austria wants to calculate each other. You can't put up with injustice. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: In no direction!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We shouldn't get into this – no, I'm correct –, we shouldn't get into a haider case!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9083	Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9104	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I now begin with the accusation that I see myself exposed by Mr Graf, namely to be "Czech friendly". – Ladies and gentlemen! I can live with such an accusation. Our foreign policy is different from yours: It is not based on images of friends and enemies in Europe, but we insist on getting along well with our neighbours. And this is a real policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to make five comments on this question. The issue of the qualification of the Beneš decrees is one in which we are quite different from our Czech colleagues. And as far as Slovenian colleagues are concerned, there is a differentiation with regard to the AVNOJ decisions of 1943 and 1944 respectively. We stand by the fact that this "right", which was then accompanied by murder, mass displacement, confiscation and domestic displacement of people, was none but was wrong – and remains. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With this backpack they go to the EU!]] And we also insist that this injustice is not justified by the course of time. And I believe that we are in agreement. As regards the AVNOJ decisions of 1943 and 1944 respectively, the same question arises as to the availability of expropriations. This too is wrong, even that contradicts – even after the then state of international law! – the principles of humanity and human rights. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is all the more incomprehensible for us – this is my second remark, and I would like to expressly note on behalf of the ÖVP – that the Social Democratic Prime Minister Zeman in the Czech Republic has begun his start as head of government by saying that the Beneš decrees should continue to be valid as a "continuous legal system" in the Czech Republic. – I mean, it is not for a head of government to condemn all these events, which we all have to condemn, according to the law of the day, with such a declaration, to begin its activity. I do not think this is good in the sense of starting a new government in the Czech Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] His observation that SudetenGermans can also be compared with Communists or National Socialists has now taken Zeman back, and I would also like to acknowledge that. He explained that this kind of interpretation was not acceptable. It is, however, – and I would like to underline Mr Vice-Chancellor's comments – that the Czech President Havel has declared that the expulsion of 3.5 million Sudeten Germans from Bohemia and Moravia after the Second World War must be condemned morally. [[Abg. Young: The Bayern will have exerted pressure!]] I therefore think that this is a remarkable statement, because it shows that in the Czech Republic it is thought very differently than only in the sense of what Zeman said. This is a positive beginning on which we need to build. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Havel then weakened that again!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Third comment: What is important for the displaced and their descendants in Austria today? . I have the impression, from many discussions which I have also held with representatives of disfellowshipped associations, that there is not the subject of property law at the heart of the issue – there is, of course, also a lot to discuss, but that is not the central question – but the central question is that it is recognised that these Beneš decrees were wrong and that there is also an unfair awareness of those who were responsible for this relationship as successors today. [[Abg. Aumayr: If it still exists, how can one then recognize that it is wrong?]] These are the two guidelines that our instructions for action for Austria should take place. I come to my fourth point: What should be the outcome of this course of action in the sense of injustice and the creation of a sense of injustice? I believe that the first visit of President Klestil in the Czech Republic in September has given a first impetus to this Havel expression. I believe that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who, with all those he has here from the Czech Republic as a interlocutor here in Austria, must continue to insist on every agenda so to speak, that we in Austria expect a movement in the Czech Republic. I also believe that much can be done in this regard at the party level. In any case, we from the Austrian People's Party have started a dialogue with our bourgeois partners in the Czech Republic in April of this year in Prague. We invite you now to Vienna in autumn, and we will discuss this again. I can only say that, for me, it was remarkable that there were politicians there who could quite imagine a swirling in their previous attitude. It must also be pointed out that at least symbolically this injustice that happened at the time is being dealt with from the Czech side. I also believe that the group of experts, in the sense of a Committee of Historians from the Czech Republic and Austria, can jointly contribute to the work of this history to a great deal of fundamentals. This work may not be burdened by this hack, by this kind of black painting. I come to my fifth and last point: What I do not want and what I cannot stand for is that this polarization is seen to mean that only a veto should be introduced if the Czech Republic or Slovenia are to join the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's think this through: Austria would prevent Slovenia and the Czech Republic from belonging to the European Union. Then let's say: And now you must begin with the work of injustice, now you must sharpen your iniquities!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a consequence!]] Faith You really, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals that this would be the result? On the contrary: Nationalism would awaken in these countries. Perhaps this is also fully calculated by you, but we cannot really understand this from the ÖVP. I thought it was dangerous when we tried to make politics in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Consequences continued: Who knows when there will really be a crucial phase in the accession negotiations? We don't know today. It can take many years to pick up our veto card. And we should wait until then? [[Abg. Young: Is it important now – or isn't it important?]] It is now a matter of pointing out this injustice on every occasion of that time. Ladies and gentlemen! Do we really want to believe that we can turn this issue into a central issue for all in enlargement negotiations, with 15 negotiating partners sitting on an EU side? We must also admit, I believe, that we will not succeed. That is why we should not arouse expectations in those who are still suffering today and believe that it would be possible to open up all of this in a negotiation process. I therefore believe that it is the right way for us to consistently do what we can. I repeat this once again: at every level, from ministerial to party level, to address this question over and over again, and above all to raise awareness of the injustice and to call the injustice that happened at that time also such a thing. [[Abg. Dr Graf: You will never address this to the parliamentary bodies!]] I consider this – compared to a dangerous wood hammer method in foreign policy, which has never led to success for Austria – to be the far more important way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9270	Mr Stadler has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9295	Mr President. High house! Mr Arbitrator has said that we could have made earlier requests on the subject of our urgent question, but we would have failed to do so. – This is incorrect! In the short time available to me, I have, for example, selected four proposals for which I would like to quote: Resolution adopted on 12 November. November 1997 on the clarification of open problems between Slovenia and Austria prior to the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union; Proposal of the 10. On 10 October 1997 the Czech Republic was given the opportunity to discuss the issue with the Czech Republic on the same subject. In the course of a debate on this issue on 14 October 1997, a similar request was made on 14 October 1997. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not an insidious one!]] Mr. Schieder! We have tabled numerous proposals which you have all voted down! This matter has been urgent for years, but is being dragged away by you for years!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9347	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9368	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Dragi prijatelji! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the people's question and, above all, the question of the Sudeten Germans, the question of the people of Germany, the question of the German-speaking population in our neighbouring countries, that it is too serious a question as to be brought down to such a level by a so-called urgent request by the FPÖ here in the National Council. They have a revanche thinking that neither these countries nor the affected groups deserve. I would like to hold that in advance. I believe that there are major shortcomings in the law of the ethnic groups both in Austria and in the area of the EU. It is incomprehensible that the European Community has still not made the European Convention on Human Rights the acquis communautaire. That would be a very important task, also spoken in your direction, Minister. You must act in such a way that we come to a good, solid European people's right. There is a problem when, in connection with the Copenhagen Declaration, the new countries are required to be more papal than the Pope himself, so to speak. In many EU countries – I do not want to call names now – there is neither one nor only a very low protection of the ethnic groups, even there are still sanctions when someone uses certain languages of ethnic communities in these countries. – Taking this issue into account would be a central task that you should have worked on in the EU documents. The demand for the FPÖ has a central flaw in particular, and I hope that we will have an opinion in it – you can make mistakes, but you can also be better – that you simply use it for a few years too late with the problem of these groups. They forget the whole development before the Second World War, namely the abuse of these groups for certain negative objectives and also the willingness of many members of these groups to participate in the development of the NSA. This must be taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Karl, just tell me what this has to do with 1998! You're 60 years back!]] As regards the Beneš decrees and the Jajce AVNOJ decisions, I agree with you: Everything that is illegal, illegal, or illegal in the international community is immediately eliminated! Today! Now! Still on that day! In this we are entirely of our opinion. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We cannot tolerate it – not in our country or in the neighbouring countries – when human rights are trampled with feet and relativized by old or new laws! But let us be bold about matter, especially here in the Austrian Parliament! There's a lot of things going on. Today, a few hours later, I am going to count those votes that want to pick up some Austrian failures together with me. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Measures! What exactly?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Constitution, that the basic constitutional documents of these countries are a large part of those measures, declarations and legal standards that I did not accept at the time, which were precisely what we do not know in many areas, are denoticing a number of these terrible provisions and replacing them with new ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] This is something I see in the German-Czech declaration, in Article 5, which I do not wish to quote here because of the short speaking time. She's certainly known to all of you. However, I am surprised that you do not point out that some other countries have already taken more courageous steps and have good standards. This means that there are good examples in this respect in neighbouring countries. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What are the consequences of the Czechs? The Germans have learned – not the Czechs!]] I am absolutely prepared to take part in the fact that, especially as regards the issue of Slovenia, a number of things are still happening, including in connection with the cultural agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! The Slovenian Constitution has taken a courageous step. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if I may, Shortly after my speaking time only mention the articles with their numbers, e.g. Article 61, in which it reads clearly – I quote –: "Vsakdo ima pravico, da svobodna izraža pripadnost k svojemu narodu ali narodni schupnosti, da goji in izraža svojo kulturo in uporablja svoi jezik in pisavo." The next paragraph then deals with the right to use one's own language in writing. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Also in front of the authority?]] There will then be clear rules on the Italian, Hungarian and Roma groups. I believe that a constitutional formula must also be found for the other groups of people in Slovenia, including those of the German-speaking Slovenians. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a major problem which is not too unpleasant. There are two levels of problem: Once upon a time, there are the Gotscheers, who are quite different to treat, who actually have Italy and Germany as an address in terms of relocation. [[Abg. Young: Because pressure was made!]] Yes, but: Whoever is responsible for the withdrawal of wealth and the return, we have to talk about it very well, and we know that the Gotscheers have been part of the Italian-fascist territory. We know that, too. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Helpless fog grenades you shoot!]] Otherwise, the matter must be dealt with with by the other German-speaking Slovenians in the current Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore essential to deal with this issue carefully. I would say that your question, your submission or your opinion on the question of EU accession to these countries – yes or no? – This is why EU legislation already forces these countries to change their standards in a wide range of areas. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I don't see that!]] Even if they do not directly change their own standards, new standards will apply. Therefore, we should say courageously: Yes, we would like to see our friends in the south and east in the EU – this is because we are actually committed to the interests of German-speaking groups. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Karl, sit down!]] You argue so on Sunday, on Monday it is different again, and on Friday you forgot what you claimed at the beginning of the week. This question is too important to be abused by persons and groups: in Austria by the FPÖ, by Dr. Miroslav Sládek's SPR-RSČ in Prague or by Mr. Jelinčič in Ljubljana. These questions are too serious and serious. Therefore, they belong in careful custody and careful treatment – and not abused in sloppy urgent requests. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Storage – you would like to!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, in the remaining minutes, to criticise the politics of this Federal Government, because the Freedom Party should not be so much concerned with itself. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why would you like a mandate with us?]] Federal Minister! I see major failures in the EU and also in the current EU President-in-Office: We know exactly that in the EU we do not actually have clear standards of peoples' rights, by which we could measure these new countries and also our country or the "classical" EU countries. Mr Federal Minister, it would be right at the time – the Austrian People's Group Centre has already been introduced to you in this regard – to include a new matter, namely a People's Group Law or a People's Group Law standard, in the EU's basic treaties, all the more so than we all agree that human rights are not only questions of a single state, of the host state, nor of bilateral nature, but also of general rights, which should also be found in general. Federal Minister! That would be an answer that I miss from you. I received a letter from you. I don't want to hurt the secret of the letter here, but just say: Mr. Federal Minister, I was disappointed about the content. The answer was not: Yes, dear friend, within the framework of the EU, we will try to set clear people's group and human rights standards. That would have been a clear answer. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We should not need a urgent request from the liberals, because it should have been on the table by the government for a long time, namely the draft EU standard of national law. This is what we expect of you, even if you, Mr Federal Minister, are not sitting here today as President-in-Office. Take However, as an Austrian Foreign Minister, this includes: We need a clear and clear European People's Rights! Like the human rights convention on human rights in particular, we also need a good European human and group law for groups of people, national entities and identities. That would be the task. I believe that there is a consensus on this, including with the liberals, that this is so right, no matter how you stand at EU level. In this sense, please include the proposals we have put forward to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9562	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9583	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. I do not see it as Mr Smolle does. It can be quite different to see whether the issue the Freedom Party has put on the agenda today is an urgent one or not. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Right!]] In the light of the fact that the acquis screening is running and negotiations are now under way, it is quite urgent. That is where I can join Mr Harald Ofner. However, in view of the questions raised, I ask myself: Why did the Freedom Party not actually make a urgent request to act in accordance with the rules of business? This would have been more appropriate from the Rules of Procedure, because the 14 questions are actually a question – or a maximum of two – when referring to the Czech Republic or Slovenia. [[Abg. Aumayr: Is it made!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The question of dealing with the fate of Austrians who were expelled from the Czech Republic after 1945, or the question of dealing with the fate of people who speak the German language in addition to their Slovenian native language and today live in Slovenia are quite legitimate. I believe that the National Council should also deal seriously with this. I therefore think these questions are remarkable, because I see them in a very pragmatic context. It is not the case that the new head of government of the Czech Republic, Zeman, took his first foreign trip after becoming head of government to Austria, and here, I assume, also met with you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, at the time, because the Czech Republic is not only interested in the fact that we are currently holding the EU Presidency, but in far beyond that, in the neighbourhood relations and in the many communities that exist. And I think that this act also highlights this very much. Our interest in the Czech Republic and in what is happening in the Czech Republic is a far, far less than the other way round. This also applies to Slovenia. We also know much less about our two neighbouring countries than the people there know about Austria – not to mention how few Austrians speak the language of these neighbouring countries, unless they are minority members, and how often or almost naturally it is when you come to the Czech Republic or Slovenia – now I can also strain the arch over Hungary – that the people there speak German. This objection shows how easy it is for us to build neighborhood many times from this side. But what is now being done with the problematisation, which is quite given, what is now being done with that hitpage, which the Freedom Party brings into this discussion – and this question was already in discussion before – goes on. There is no need for the FPÖ colleagues to think about it, because they have only taken over what the Carinthian Home Office in Carinthia already clearly says, does and demands. It goes far beyond that by saying that the Czech Republic and Slovenia must not be included in the EU until the conditions it has established are fulfilled. The Carinthian Home Office goes much further, and from the debates of the FPÖ it also sounds like it. They also want to prevent, once and for all, any reflection on the joint activities and actions of the regions of Carinthia, Friuli, July-Venice and Slovenia. This is much deeper rooted. I believe that what is essential at today's meeting is the fact that the Freedom Party will do whatever is possible and whatever is available in order to prevent the enlargement of the European Union to include these countries – we are talking today about the Czech Republic and Slovenia. The Freedom Party is right in any way to create a mood against this, and thus also to incite resentment, opposition and prejudice in Austrian politics and the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No argument, ladies and gentlemen, will be too cheap for the Freedom Party here. That's all right. That is what is now hurting me more about the question of some really more than legitimate concerns and also the question of the human rights of the Sudeten Germans in Austria. I always wonder, How do the Sudeten Germans come to mean that a party instrumentalizes their legitimate concern in this way and thus does not exclude necessary and targeted discussions, but makes them significantly difficult? [[Abg. Young: What can the poor Croatians of Austria do for that...?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The appearances of the representatives of the organizations I have seen on television so far, the statements I heard on the radio or also read in newspapers are as sensible and as realistic as I would not have expected them at all. Those who pour oil into the fire are the liberals. And these have all their stated intentions. The intention is to do everything possible to prevent the accession of the Czech Republic and Slovenia to the European Union and to heat up the mood here in Austria. And this is so easy to see, that I ask Mr Vice-Chancellor – there is no indication of that anyway – not to walk into this trap. His speech today and his reply to the question was very positive in my view that this would not happen. [[Abg. Scheibner: That already says everything!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Examples of an argument that is a much more difficult and historically burdened one, namely the relationship between the Czech Republic and Germany, as this handling is going on, are a pattern for us in Austria, which we can look away from. I believe that the idea - I cannot now say to what extent it has been concretely implemented - to set up a commission of historians, as negotiated, agreed or discussed on the occasion of the visit of head of government Zeman in Austria, is an essential and correct step, because, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, it is not in the interest of the Sudeten Germans that there is excitement and now, under quotations, "politically burdened". [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How do you know?]] It is also about laying new rails for the future. No one today has acquitted – nor has Mr Vice-Chancellor – that human rights are indivisible. [[Abg. Arbitrators: What does it mean, not even? That's where I have to defend him! He never said that!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Although he did not use this word in this way and did not emphasize it in any way, it was perfectly clear from his contribution to the debate. That is why, in this respect, I agree with Mr Smolle, it is also, of course, legitimate to ask, when it comes to the European Union and the Austrian Presidency, the following question: What is actually being done by the Foreign Minister in those questions, which are not very important bilateral or multilateral issues, but in which Austria, alone and without having to take other account, enforces constitutional law and human rights? Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would like to see an almost as strong a commitment as you have proved it in my view today in the answer to this question – now quite positively – in order to give way to soberness, objectivity and thus also goal-oriented results. I would expect a little more commitment if it were to be implemented in Austria by Article 7, State Treaty of Vienna, which is unfulfilled. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] You don't need a Zeman and no Kučan, and above all you don't need the Freedom Party and the goodwill of the Freedom Party. This is a daily breach of justice that happens in Austria – every day! On every day that goes by, the government or those responsible in Austria break constitutional law, unless those rights, which form the basis of the Austrian legal system, are fulfilled in Austria. If, Mr. Federal Minister – and the EU Presidency is not yet over, we are right at half-time –...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9727	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The speaking time has expired. I'm sorry. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: She's gotten an addition for that nonsense! - Austria's cursing!]] The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9763	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This surprising praise by Mrs Stoisits for your answers today in the National Council shows quite clearly what these answers are to be expected, Mr Foreign Minister. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel speaks to the abg. Smolle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Maybe he should listen now, Mr. Minister!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Karel Smolle, listen!]] Foreign Minister! Maybe you'd have the kindness to listen as well? Mr Smolle, I think it is not exactly an act of courtesy if you stop Mr Foreign Minister from listening here. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing shows more clearly what you have offered here today, Mr Foreign Minister, than the fact that the Greens praise you and congratulate you on the answers you have given today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Rise You're going down! We are here in the Austrian Parliament, not in Brussels, not in the EU Council, where you, even as representatives of the European Union, seem to be more important to you than to human rights, as we always criticize it. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] – Yes, you can enjoy the praise of the Greens. However, as an Austrian Foreign Minister, we would have expected you to find clear and clear words on these injustices. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What did you say? – You said – please, that’s immense! –: Slovenia and the Czech Republic must not today be held responsible for acts of the Czech Republic of post-war times and of the Republic of Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! That would mean, in Austria, that we are not responsible for the acts, acts and crimes committed and committed in Austria between 1938 and 1945. You can't be serious! We all have found ourselves to be thank God for having, of course, a joint responsibility, Mr Foreign Minister. – to correct this injustice as far as it goes. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] They talked about denationalization. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Denationalisation! The ousting of 3 million innocent citizens who have been given ten minutes of time, the most important utensils they need, which have been driven out of their homes, from their homes, who have had to be happy if they have not been personally attacked and killed, is called denationalization. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's an insolence, that's annihilation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This brings to your attention every moral competence – even today – to these denationalizations, as you call them – we call it ethnic displacements of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands that happen in Europe today. You, as the chairman of a party, who is so happy to act as guardian of the Sudeten Germans and of those displaced, should be careful when the events of the Sudeten Germans are marked and hopes are aroused – hopes that now that the ÖVP has been in a government in which you have taken over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for years – that the displaced and the survivors of that time finally meet with justice. Ladies and gentlemen: What is it about? Mr Schieder, you said that was not urgent. – Of course it is urgent. For each of these already very old people, it is urgent because they may... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't say that at all!]] Mr. Schieder! Of course: You have doubted the urgency of this request. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why do you bring it right now?]] We are not bringing it right now, but we have tried months and years to bring all these requests into the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Inexperienced dance around there!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have rejected each of these applications! For each of these survivors it is urgent that he finally – 50 years after this injustice! – justice is experienced. The only question is this: that justice befalls him, that it is admitted – including the Czech Republic and Slovenia – that these were crimes at the time and that they cannot be allowed! These Austrians, who have been so involved in the construction of this Republic, would expect today that you, as Foreign Minister and the Federal Government, but also this Parliament, will be put out of the way in which the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions, which were the legal basis for the expulsion, for the murder and for expropriation, are put out and that there are clear statements of these governments in this regard. It's said: This cannot be compared and is not satisfied with EU accession. – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. EU Council President Schüssel! Can you, as an EU representative, allow the European Community, the Community of democratic states, to include a country that tolerates injustices of this kind? – Read the experiences in what circumstances these people were tortured and murdered at the time! Can you allow a seed in which such legal assets are still in force to be included in this democratic community? – As an Austrian Parliament, we cannot let that happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Novotny said: Think of what has been before! Mr Novotny! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's your problem: They always distinguish between the victims. For you there are good victims and evil victims, for you there are guilty victims and innocent victims. That's what we blame you too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] For us, there are no good and evil victims, but only right and wrong; and wherever injustice happened, where crimes have happened, where human-law-related behavior has happened, we have the responsibility to show it. This applies to all areas – no matter when and where it happened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen – because we are now again discussing so much about the reprocessing of injustice, including the victims of National Socialism, and you are hiding behind the commissions they themselves have initiated – I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9946	Mr Scheibner! May I ask you for a second? Mr Dietachmayr came to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e9971	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No one in this House needs to be told by the FPÖ what is right and what is wrong. We all know that very well, and I do not believe that the expulsion of more than 3 million Sudeten Germans after the Second World War – even if more than five decades have passed – is not yet history. She's still markedly present! At the end of World War II, about 3.5 million Germans were expelled from Czechoslovakia at the time. As a result, more than 241,000 people were killed or killed on the streets of expulsion. The injustice that has been committed to these people is not excusable; we all know that this is not disputed by anyone, even though it is still so loudly repeated. Ladies and gentlemen! Much of what has happened to injustice in this violent century cannot be restored, but each of us can contribute to the fact that these crimes are forever in the past. That is why the critical discussion with one's own past is so important and necessary. I am therefore very glad that many of Europe's countries have begun to draw up still existing dark chapters of their past. Openness in all matters is necessary in order to be able to pursue a common path into the future. In this awareness, the Declaration of Reconciliation between Germany and the Czech Republic was signed in 1997 and in this consciousness, the German Chancellor's climate recently discussed with the Czech Prime Minister Zeman the establishment of a Historical Commission for the Processing of the Past. As a self-confident democratic state, Austria presents itself as its past. I am convinced that the Czech Republic too will draw up a new chapter in dealing with still open questions to its own past. The Prague Government should also consider whether this gloomy chapter of the Czech post-war history should be written down in a new and truthful way. – There are signs of this already. As already mentioned: On an official visit by President Klestil to his Czech colleague Havel, he said literally – I quote – that to consider a moral reconciliation: "I would support every gesture that the experts present to me." However, it is also noteworthy that President Havel used the word "disfellowshipping" and not the usual word "disfellowshipping" in the Czech Republic. You see, it's also a thinking process in progress here. Slowly, movement comes into the opinion formation of the Czech top politicians. I therefore believe that the establishment of a historic commission can be very valuable. I also believe that reconciliation needs openness and willingness to deal with each other, to put the common foreign and security policy before the divider; and this joint responsibility is our responsibility for the future of Europe. Therefore, injustice in the past must not be a barrier to understanding and acting as a citizen of Europe. It is precisely the European peace and unification work that has arisen as an antithesis of war, disregard for human rights and inexpressible suffering and injustice. This proves that people are able to draw the right lessons from the past. I also think, in order to replicate Mr Graf, that the question is to ask where the success appears to be greater and, above all, more sustainable. The outcome of bilateral negotiations, or should it be yanktimized? – I am of the opinion that the first-named path is the right one! That is why it is all the more important that every measure and step be taken on this issue. Advances, as recently demonstrated by FPÖ-Obmann Haider, are counterproductive. – Mr Haider! I can contact you from the newspaper "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" of 16. Citing from an article on September 1, 1998, in which Karl Danninger wrote: "The discussion is not about how the FP-Obmann is about to abuse the fate of a whole group for his party policy, but rather, reflexively, politics falls on Haider's theses and divides the world in good and bad." Or: Josef Ertl in the "Standard": "Haider counterproductive." ... "If Haider's statement wasn't counterproductive, I'd be grateful for it." – Ertl wrote this in an article, but said that the Federal Managing Director of the Sudetendeutsche Landsmannschaft, Alfred Bakker. He also said: "The matter is brought into a light that we" – that is, the Sudeten Germans – "do not wish." – Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I believe that we should really do something more diplomatic here. The association of the German national teams of Austria, VLÖ, represents the interests of 350 000 Austrians, who were expelled between 1944 and 1946. They have so far included any acts of revenge in the Czech Republic. The main concerns of these national national teams are, of course, that racist and discriminatory decrees and decisions such as those of AVNOJ from ex-Yugoslavia and the former President Beneš from the ČSSR, which were the basis for collective expulsion and which are still contained in the legal systems of the individual states. I too support this request. These legal standards are contrary to any rule of law and must not be reconciled with those of Austria in the applicable legal standard. Moral reparation is the commandment of the hour. In this context, I would like to refer to the statement made by the European Council in June 1993, in which it means, inter alia, that each candidate country must have achieved institutional stability as a guarantee of democratic and rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to understand Europe as our common home, we will find ways to overcome the shadows of the past and to follow the steps of reconciliation. The Austrian Federal Government has already set a good example and has established a cultural, meeting and documentation house for the displaced Altösterreicher, for the "Haus der Heimat" in the 3rd century. Wiener Bezirk in der Steingasse, an amount of 30 million Schilling provided. The state government of Vienna has contributed 5 million Schilling and the country Upper Austria 1 million Schilling. For historical and sociological research, for the already promising initiatives of the VLÖ, further financial support will be provided in the coming years. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be wrong for foreign policy, as the FPÖ is currently doing, to trample around like an elephant in the porcelain shop. I mean, it's more important to carry out work and information – including in one's own country – so that what happened back then can never happen again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10049	Mr Scheibner's motion for a resolution on the establishment of an independent commission for historians was properly supported and is under negotiation. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10070	I would also like to say that the honourable Members have the power to do so. Barmüller and Comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up a Committee of Inquiry to clarify all circumstances relating to the accident at the Lassing mine and to review all Austrian mountain authorities in respect of the proper exercise of their supervisory and control duties over the last ten years. The debate has not been requested. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will therefore be put to the vote on this request after completion of the agenda. Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, has made a point of correcting the matter. The speaking time is known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10103	Mr President. I really want to correct what Mr Dietachmayr has said about the managing director of the South German national team, Bakker. They have cited that Mr Bakker believed that Haider's comments in relation to the South German question were counterproductive. This situation is incorrect, it has also been set correctly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can't do that right! It's counterproductive!]] Rather, Mr Bakker said in an interview with Mr Ertl that the caricature published in the "profile" is counterproductive in the course of Dr. Haider's statements. You must admit this to me: This perfide, mies caricature is really counterproductive in this matter. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not an actual correction!]] Mr Ertl has, of course, never brought this correction in the standard, as is usual in this newspaper. Mr President, I should like to thank I find that you have this circumstance...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10145	The actual correction has been carried out and terminated in accordance with business rules. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Graf.]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10176	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Recently, I have had the most intense contacts with displaced people. Thereby, in large and whole, two demands are crystallized out, which they want to realize. First of all, they expect us to bring out the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions in negotiations with the Czech Republic and Slovenia from the legal system. Secondly, They also expect us to help them write their story new and correct. – Allow me to make a few comments on the two major concerns of the displaced. I am a little strange about the fact that, when it comes to bringing out the Beneš decrees, as well as the AVNOJ provisions from the respective legal system, the liberals will only make the way through EU accession valid. [[Abg. Young: Not only, but also!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, in his reply to the question, made it clear clearly that this junkimation, and so that this exclusiveness, which poses a very high risk, is not at all a matter of these negotiations, but of a decommissioning of the two countries. This should definitely be prevented. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Dr. Graf! Just one sentence from your speech underscores this my claim. You said that every politician – you meant in the Czech Republic and Slovenia – won elections when he proclaimed insistence on the Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions. - Yes! That's exactly how it is! We would only give the nationalists water back to their mills, and that should be prevented. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that both the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions are considered to be anti-human, human rights violations. I don't think that's a thing to do, and that's what nobody's fighting. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We hope so!]] But the way in which we want to remove these provisions from the legal system should, in our opinion, be another one. In my opinion, you took the individual clubs and scattered sand into your eyes. In reality, I am also convinced that the path of long bilateral negotiations will lead to success. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We support this and want it for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next, I would like to make a correction to the history of the displaced. In the case of the Sudeten Germans, it has gone up and down extremely dramatic. In the interwar period they were subjected to special repression, so they had to lock up schools by the language regulation in about 1928 and lost public offices. Many companies no longer received public contracts, so they were driven into an economic and social emergency. – Who is surprised that in 1939 they justly trusted Adolf Hitler, who gave them the hand, in a first approach? Ladies and gentlemen! But this should be done correctly, because many believe that the Sudeten Germans were the national socialists who were hidden. The story belongs to the right picture. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The racer and the Figl have always said: They belong to Germany!]] And this presentation is based on special commitment from our Foreign Minister, Dr. Schüssel, because 10 million schillings will be made available to the House of Homeland in the next few years, in order to provide the home sales with the opportunity to present themselves properly. [[Abg. Young: What is that compared to other means?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We should support them in this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: One doesn't rule out the other!]] Yeah, right now! But action has to be taken, and these actions have been committed, an appropriate Council of Ministers decision has already been taken, and this is also very important for the Sudeten Germans, for the German-speaking national teams. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (showing Dr. Schüssel as vice chancellor) Enjoy your meal and thank you for choosing Burger King. He's not doing anything!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Sand in the eyes!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is useful for us to deal controversially with this issue. We should recognize that the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going under Dr. Schüssel is a determined, certainly also laborious way, but hopefully it will lead us very soon to a success in favour of the displaced. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Young]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10332	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10353	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder has asked the question why we now call for urgent consideration of this matter. I can simply tell him that it is quite logical, and he could probably have answered it himself as a foreign-political speaker: We are now holding the EU Presidency and during this EU Presidency negotiations with new Eastern European countries on full membership will begin. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is the wrong time!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: If there is a tactically wrong time, then now!]] So: When are Austrians to speak, if not now? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second question I ask is: Why do you, a foreign minister, measure by two measures? They said that human rights issues could only be negotiated bilaterally. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No, I didn't say that!]] However, no accession negotiations can be conducted with Turkey because it violates human rights. But the Czechs and Slovenians may continue to be allowed to legislate against human rights! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a strong piece!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! In this context, you have kindly cited an opinion by the international judge Zemanek, who, as you have said, has concluded that the AVNOJ decisions have de facto come out of force and have no obligations under international law. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Good! You'll correct it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! He said it was in accordance with international law! That's a lot worse!]] I would ask you to tell me when exactly this opinion is dated. For I must tell you that, after a question in the office of Zemanek, we had the professor judge that he had not written such an opinion on this subject. [[Call to the liberals: Here look! Listen, listen!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a strong thing!]] So I want to know – from your officials or from you –: Have you deliberately faced Parliament with an untruth, or is Professor Zemanek on the road to the wrong wedding? We'd like to know. I am telling you in this context because today, ÖVP politicians have always talked about the need to solve this bilaterally: You will – and please think about it – when the EU accession of both countries is carried out, there is nothing left to do bilaterally for the displaced. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's not true!]] You are, although you are currently in the chair, unable to achieve something by means of a sustainable policy on this issue, but "the evil haider" has to discuss the subject once again so that you wake up and even realize what you have to do. That's the reality! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Remember that! I'll read you an order that was not issued in the war, but on 26 May. October 1945! This is an order for the loss of assets in Czechoslovakia under the title "Decret": After you are a German, your possession will be immediately effected – decree of the President of the Czechoslovak Republic of 19. May 1945 – given in national administration and passed on soundly to the administrator. You are ordered to transfer your property to the said administrator, including all rights and supplies, claims and cash. Any disposition will be prohibited and severely punished. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Czechisation!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That was after the end of World War II, which was in the continuity of this present Czech Republic. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I ask You now: A republic that continues to maintain such laws, do you want to take up? This is the true background of your hypocritical policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, I must tell you that it is a decision, not of the Carinthian Home Office, but of the Carinthian Landtag – unanimously! – gives a unanimous decision and a decision by the Kärntner state government! – which calls for the AVNOJ decisions to be repealed before the accession of Slovenia and for the legal position of the old Austrians in the Constitution of Slovenia to be clarified. This is a unanimous decision of all parties! I wonder why Mr Foreign Minister refuses to take note of decisions taken by a legislative body of a federal state that is involved. Because I thought it was at least prepared to include these questions in the EU accession negotiations, as is naturally desired by a federal like Carinthia, which is permanently affected. You have not been successful with your policy so far. They give Slovenia money and do nothing! You have not achieved anything in your bilateral negotiations for months! Don't even bring the cultural agreement She's on her way, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. They are annoyed themselves because the Slovenians are so stupendous on this question. Now you have donated a million schillings for the establishment of a Slovenian library. Nevertheless, you don't move there. You must go into the negotiations at the right time! Martino, a former Minister of the Italian Government, told me a few weeks ago how happy he was that, when it came to the association agreements with Slovenia, former Foreign Minister Dr. Mock helped the Slovenians to make it clear that the Italians would not accept the association agreement in the EU until the problems of Italy had been resolved. That is to say, an Austrian foreign minister helped the Italians to injunctify, but the current Austrian foreign policy says – when it comes to Austrian interests – that: No, unfortunately, we cannot act in connection with the EU negotiations. This is your strange relinquishing policy, which we do not want to join in the end!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10550	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10607	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed the debate on the urgent request of the Liberal Party very closely and have found that there is complete agreement in the assessment of the historical events between all the parties to this House. There are, however, different assessments of the path that is now to be taken. Mr Haider! The path of the Freedom Party is the Veto policy! However, the Veto policy does not lead to the goal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With the Italians already!]] You would not achieve any political goal with your policy! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There Dr. Mock was helpful!]] I can repeat: The consequences of your policy, if you could enforce it as consistently as you explained today, would be that there would be no enlargement of the EU to include the candidate countries. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what Mock did to the Italians!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was a level waste, Mr. Foreign Minister!]] Another consequence would be a huge damage to Austrian security policy, as Austria is now known to have the largest share of EU external borders and that it must be a state interest to integrate the neighbourhood into the European Union. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Carinthian Landtag has decided!]] I do not want to mention the damage to the economy, because it is also known that there are potential economic partners in Austria. Their policy also means enormous damage to the displaced, because Austria would lose its ability to talk with its neighbouring countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I don't want to talk about international damage to Austria. I must tell you that it is a good thing that you are not ruling in Austria, but that you are responsible for others! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does our alternative look like? – Our alternative is to continue the peace work in Europe wisely and carefully. [[Abg. Scheibner: In Carinthia you are national, international!]] We need a new quality of foreign policy, and we must, in particular, allow young countries to prepare themselves for accession and to create the legal conditions for it. The way of Austria is right, the way that Vice-Cancellor Schüssel walks is right. It has begun, especially with regard to Slovenia, the scientific preparation of history. In this area, Dr. Stefan Karner has acquired very great merit. A second step is to seek a cultural agreement between Austria and Slovenia in order to specifically anchor the rights of the old Austrians in a treaty and also to achieve the recognition of this old Austrian minority in Slovenia. The third step is the integration of Slovenia into a pan-European legal system with all fundamental rights. For it is a fact that, on the condition that the Amsterdam Treaties apply, AVNOJ decisions and the Beneš decrees are not sustainable. This is the best way to serve the displaced. Their alternative is not accession, and therefore, if you want to, the maintenance and continuation of the present state.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10724	Mr Vice-Chanceller, Dr. Schüssel, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10745	I just want to make two real findings: Firstly, Mr Haider claimed that I would have said that human rights are bilateral. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Exactly the opposite!]] I have said exactly the opposite, namely: Human rights are universal! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right!]] I have said this explicitly here – to read in the Minutes. I would therefore ask you to distance yourself from these considerations. For the second statement, I would have quoted something that is not available, I can tell you that here I have an opinion with the signature of university professor Zemanek of 29. September. Painful, embarrassing, Dr. Haider!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10807	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10828	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, we are very curious about how this opinion will actually look. [[Call to the liberals:Glory, own heart!]] We will insist on this issue, I promise you! I would like to make the following request for reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are going to ask for a vote to be taken. I don't have much time left. The climate you have created with your way of discussing this topic is best expressed in a letter to the reader, which I read here in excerpts: While the Sudeten Germans were able to build a new existence with growing prosperity, the Czech population had no opportunity to do so. Without exorcism, the Sudeten Germans would have suffered the same fate. The displaced Sudeten Germans were lucky – were lucky! – an economic advantage vis-à-vis its Czech compatriots. This advantage is largely so great that it should also compensate for the mental pain. Ladies and gentlemen! Skill You can grasp this cynicism, can you? The reader's letter is from Eugen Ruffingshofer, deputy to the Liberal Forum! Mrs Schmidt, what did you tell the Lord, I ask you here. It's immense! But that's the climate you're talking about with your way of dealing with it. You and your sales spokesmen speak in front of the associations quite differently than here in the house. There you scatter sand into the eyes of people. But you won't succeed in the future. If someone from the so-called right-hand side had written this letter – in something different form – the prosecutor and the prohibition law would have been behind him. But the others, the displaced, the tortured, possibly even the murdered, may be mocked and insulted unpunished! It is high time to change this climate. On the one hand, the government is called upon to preserve – externally – inalienable rights of these people and, on the second – inside – a mental attitude, as shown by the speaker of the Liberal Forum of Lower Austria in this letter of reading. Such a thing is immense!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10879	The resolution on EU accession conditions for the Czech Republic and Slovenia is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I would also like to have a name-named vote on this motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. I shall therefore proceed in this way, as this request is sufficiently supported. No further words are available. That concludes the debate. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider, Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the remaining clarification of the enrichment of SPÖ and Mr ÖVP at the expense of NS victims. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution by Dr. Haider, Scheibner, for a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Graf and Mr Comrade on EU accession conditions for the Czech Republic and Slovenia. A vote has been required, and since this request is sufficiently supported, I shall proceed in this way. I shall vote in such a way that Members are called in alphabetical order and that the vote from the square of Members is taken orally. For the purpose of the vote, I ask the voters to rise from the place, if possible, after the name call, and to reply in a loud and clear manner with Yes or No. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Graf's request, yes, those who vote against it, No answer. I would point out, by the way, that, in order to avoid confusion, Mr Mentil is on the list of those who are entitled to vote today, in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, because the right to vote begins with the deposit of the vote, as provided for in Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. I'll start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10965	That concludes the vote. I am interrupting the sitting with a view to counting the votes. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 5.21 p.m. and resumed at 5.23 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e10993	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 155 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 35, No voice: 120. The request did not find a majority. With "Yes", the Members voted: Aumayr; Blünegger, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Krüger, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Marolt, Meischberger, Meisinger; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder, Ellwall; Feurstein, Fink, friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gatterer, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heinzl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Morak, Moser Gabriela, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser-Starrach, Motter, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Peter, Pittermann, Platter, Puttinger; Rada, smoke-callat, riding, Riepl; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11155	We are next to hold a short debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Öllinger, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 504/A by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on a federal law amending the Karenz leave grant law and the Karenzgeldgesetz, a period of time until 3. ==References== After the end of the debate, the vote will be taken on this request for a deadline. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has 10 minutes, all the other speakers have 5 minutes speaking time. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11189	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that Mr Foreign Minister, Vice-President and President-in-Office of the ÖVP have already gone. I read an interview with interest in the magazine "Falter", in which the party president of the ÖVP was also asked what it looks like in the context of the savings packages with the women's policy line of the ÖVP. In this interview, Mr. Vice-Chancellor assured the "Falter": No, everything that the ÖVP and its members are accused of, in particular, because of the attitude towards single women does not agree, and he, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, has a great deal of understanding and is at any time ready to support initiatives that could improve the situation of this group of women. I can remember – even if it has been a little longer – that Parliamentary Feurstein in a firm – I think it was not Mr Hums, but one of his predecessors as Social Minister, Hesoun or Dallinger – that characterized the social policy ideas of the ÖVP. In this, Mr Feurstein admitted: Yes, there are groups of women for which we need to do more, single parents have been called there. Mr. Feurstein and – unfortunately not present – Mr. Party Chairman Schüssel! You have the opportunity today to actually do something for these women. There is a request - Mr Feurstein, you know what request I am referring to - which has been debated in the Committee on Social Affairs and which has received the approval of four and a half parties. Four and a half parties agree to this request, and only a few men – hard-hearted men in the ÖVP, drilled men in the ÖVP – can and do not want to agree. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Hearty men!]] That is why it is interesting, Mr Feurstein, because today your Klubobmann Khol, on the occasion of the Lassing debate, has come to this debate and has accused Parliament of not finally rising up in relation to the mountain law and, so to speak, has taken the initiative. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Mr. Feurstein is a hardhearted man!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Khol is a flagellant!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will now repeat – this is not just the address of Mr Khol: In principle, four and a half parties agree with the proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was agreed in the Committee on Social Affairs that in order to achieve a clear position on the part of the EIAP, I would like to give him a brief explanation, Mr Feurstein, that this request will be postponed. At the time, half a year ago, we were promised that the request had been postponed until the next meeting. At the next meeting, the request was not on the agenda. It was colleague Guggenberger, who swore stone and leg: The proposal will be on the agenda, it will be for the Socialist Group to support it. – It was so, you know, Mrs. Reitsamer. But the request did not come on the agenda. He has not therefore come to the agenda because these men of the ÖVP, two or three, maybe there are four – perhaps some still point to this attitude – saying no. If four parties are in favour, or four and a half parties, because there are many in the EIA too who want to agree to this request, then this does not mean that Parliament can vote for it. Finally, Mr Khol is still sitting inside, and he knows what he has to say to Parliament. – Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we are in the situation that Parliament, on the occasion of the debate on a very modest request in Mr Khol's hostagery, is perhaps also Mr Feurstein - I do not know exactly - and some other gentlemen. What's this about? – This is really interesting: It's not about money. It's not about big money. The application includes the provision of the savings package, according to which women who do not wish to or may not call the name of the child father also receive the right to the increased care allowance again – but only provided that these women declare themselves ready to repay these maintenance prepayments. So this is the analogy that applies to all other women. Because the increased karenz money – better said: the difference amount – is only advanced and can be paid back, not by the woman, but by the man. There are single women who cannot or do not want to mention the name of the child father. For both, ladies and gentlemen, there are good reasons, absolutely good reasons. I hope I don't need to explain to you what good reasons that can be. It is the absolute right of these women not to mention the name of the child father, even if they know him, but want nothing more to do with the man, for whatever reason: be it because it was a rape, or if it were any other circumstances. This right gives the legislator to women. The ÖVP men – these few men – but say: It doesn't matter to us that these women must be punished for not naming the name! Who will be punished, ladies and gentlemen? – Single women are punished, who are usually not happy for them. You must repay the money according to the content of this request, it is only a prepayment! This request has only been made because women's counsellors and family counsellors – Christian, Catholic, Protestant family advisory services – have told us: Please make such a request! For the decision that these women do not receive an increased pension means for many also the decision against the child. They can't do anything else because they don't know how to get over the rounds. There is no financial disadvantage for the State, except – which is also true for all other single-parents – in that income is so low that it is not possible to repay even in the period following the pension fund when you go back to work. But this right applies to all, not only this group of women. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you already believe that those 500 000 S that are about to be shot are too many and that we cannot afford to do so – if you believe that, then why don't you argue accordingly? You argue that you want the women who still have the child and who do not want to mention the child's name for very specific reasons to remain in the poverty trap! Say it loud so we can hear it, gentlemen of the ÖVP! Because once again: It is only a matter of putting four and a half parties into the hostagery of a few fewer men of the ÖVP. It's the FPÖ for it, it's the SPÖ for it, it's the LIF for it, it's the greens for it and also many of you from the ÖVP, I know it. Nevertheless, an absolute majority in this House should not be able to decide on this request, which costs nothing. – Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I'm afraid it'll come like this: We won't decide. But this is not only the responsibility of Mr Khol, ladies and gentlemen, but also the responsibility of the other parties. This responsibility also takes you with you. It is only about setting a deadline for this request. It is your responsibility if you want to give your consent to a policy of Mr. Khol, which in this case is cruel – cruel to women –, contemptuous, disdainful and unchristian, even with your refusal to set deadlines. I hope my Ladies and gentlemen, social democrats, liberals, Christian-socials in the ÖVP and the liberals – all who have already said that they will agree – that you consider this approval well and give it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11261	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11282	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger! I'm glad you've recovered. You have described the infinite story here very well, and I can only add a few points. I would just like to say that we asked Minister Bartenstein with Minister Hums, precisely because it costs nothing to seek exactly this solution when it came to the cuts at the time. It was not to be reached. And as you know, We're caught in a reason. But I just want to... [[Abg. Oils: What's the reason?]] [[Abg. Seidinger: No details!]] I listened so attentively to you. I would also like to agree with this right, Mr Oillinger. As you have spoken in the explanatory statement about those who cannot or do not wish to mention the name, I would also like to say a few words: It's as often as we don't want to believe it, violence in the game, so the women can't even call it the name. I do not think they should be animated in order not to mention it, but there are good reasons for that. But we should do more information about it, even if it costs us something, what consequences it has. Because it cannot afford every woman to go to the notary with the partner – because she cannot call him, we all know the reasons for it – and to secure the child accordingly. This also has consequences for any semi- orphan's pensions, for inheritance issues and so on. – Nevertheless, the Social Democrats can approach your request. I would also like to make a few basic remarks about the Karenz leave law and the Karenz leave grant law: We're currently having the debate on karenz money for everyone. To this end, I say clearly and clearly: If we already have surpluses in the FLAF in the future, we will first take back the cuts that have affected the poorest women. I would like to ask Mr Bartenstein to pay his debts to the pension stopper. They can all remember that we at the time have provided transparency with the Labour and Social Rights Change Act and have decided to do so here in the House. That is, family policy measures – for example, child rearing times – from the pot of the Minister of the Family, civil service from the pot of the Minister of the Interior, presence service from the pot of defence, and if there is still money left, I dare to doubt, but we all know that FLAF is being financed a little differently – then we will see further. Then we can see how we distribute this money, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also failed in this resistance when it comes to women's people's desire. For it was also a point that the single mothers, who do not want to or cannot call the child father, could at least be given the opportunity to receive the grant if they later repay it – a cost-neutral provision. But I would like to say the following, Mr Oellinger: I was confronted before the last Social Committee by the fact that you wish to supplement the agenda for this request. I am in favour of this, but before I was able to talk to the ÖVP, I have already learned that you have to withdraw it for health reasons. So I don't know how the ÖVP would have behaved in this one case, but I fear – with the strange sexual morality that is represented there – that we would not have gone on quite well. We Socialists are with you on this issue, Mr Oellinger. I have a problem with the deadline. They themselves know that there is a need for consensus to be convened by a committee meeting out of plan. I cannot imagine that we can find this consensus. In addition, I must say that the assessment period for the Black Labour Act expires at the end of October. Then the amendments have to be made. That's going to be the 3rd. It is not possible to do so in November. So call the Social Committee for a single request: I fear that – I say it popularly – I will not do so! I would therefore ask you to understand that I cannot agree to the deadline, although I am fully in full agreement with you in terms of content.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11337	The next speaker is Mr Drunkl. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11366	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps in a completely new perspective, Mr Oillinger, I can assure you: In principle, the ÖVP welcomes all initiatives that can contribute to strengthening the Austrian family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP and our Minister Bartenstein presented an extensive family package in 2000 and put our ideas on the table. [[Abg. Oillingers: Another one every week!]] It's about a higher karenz money, it's about extending the circle of the entitled – keyword: Karenz money for all – it is about improving part-time pay, focusing on family advice and parental education. I could continue this list infinitely. You know that this package is currently the subject of intensive negotiations between Ministers Bartenstein and Prammer. We hope – and I admit that – that an agreement will be reached soon. I also admit, Mrs Reitsamer, that it would be better if Mrs Prammer could show a little more mobility towards Austrian families, in the interests of our families and in the interests of our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I am really confident, and I am sure that this will be a good solution in the interests of all those involved. [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic!]] On the subject: The present application concerns a scheme adopted in the framework of the Structural Adjustment Act. I confess to that, we confess to it! This agreement was reached with the coalition partner and there were and reasons why this solution was taken in this way. We from the People's Party stand for agreements, even if they are two years behind. I deliberately do not want to address the content of the request too much because, as already mentioned, it is currently the subject of intensive negotiations. I have only two brief comments allowed. I admit that there can be situations that make it difficult for the mother to call the child father. We have discussed these cases in detail in the committee, and I admit that I was very concerned about some of the cases at the time. However, I would also like to see the protection of the child as important to us. At the end of the day, Mrs Reitsamer mentioned it, it is also about maintenance claims. It is about the child’s inheritance claims, which may be quite different 20 years after the child’s testimony. Finally, it cannot be our ideal to create a fatherless society here in Austria. To sum up, I'm allowed to hold: A comprehensive Family Package 2000 is currently the subject of intensive negotiations. It does not make sense to take out a point that would also have significant financial consequences. The question of family support and pension funds must be discussed as a whole. It is therefore not aimed at setting a deadline for a single negotiating point today. They will therefore understand that we cannot support this proposal for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11427	The next speaker is Mrs Elfriede Madl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11449	Mr President. High house! Mr. Drinkl! I am quite right to say that we are dealing with a number of aspects of inheritance law and other situations which may arise later on. But you would have had seven months to negotiate this position with your government and coalition partner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you must not forget – and this is exactly the point I want to point out now – how to deal with applications for opposition here in this House. ==References== The first reading took place on this request in this room. ==References== This request was negotiated in the Committee on 7 months and thus already for a time. No agreement was reached between the government parties. The only way out was then to postpone this request, because, as has already been said, there were some resistances by the ÖVP. They have had seven months to look through this application and to consider any impact in order to be able to argue there. The only thing that came to your mind in the committee at that time was that the men could extortion the women. It didn't go like that anymore! But that's quite typical. Mrs Pittermann was promised that this request would be dealt with in the next committee. Nothing's happened! That's the way it is: Requests submitted by the opposition parties will first be postponed for a very long time. If there is half an agreement and if it is not a request from the government parties, then the matter will be postponed and disappear on Nämmerresicht or in the drawer for a long time. – That is why we also agree with the deadline proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows that nothing is going on in this House. If one cannot solve even a problem that does not cost the state a huge amount of money within seven months, I must ask you how you want to solve problems such as the still pending pension reform from the ÖVP and the SPÖ. How do you want a tax reform that is a big package? How, for example, do you want to solve apprenticeship problems? There is nothing going on in this House, and this situation, as we see it today, is proof of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11503	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11525	Mr President. High house! There is hardly a clearer case of a need to set a deadline if the following is to be followed: A request will first be made on the agenda of the Committee. Then one realizes that it is difficult to negotiate it because the coalition parties are somehow multiplicity. It will then be postponed by the provision that it will be on the next agenda again. And then he disappears sometime between the meetings and does not come back to the agenda. This is very unpleasant because you ask yourself: What are we trying at all to bring the opposition's requests to an agenda, if that does not even result in their rejection, but only in their unfinished postponement? [[Abg. May. Peter: Why is the President doing this?]] I understand that Mrs Reitsmer may be hurting. But she has to consider what is more important to her: to vote in favour of her conscience as a representative and then in favour of such an application, or to vote against the coalition discipline and then against such an application. [[Abg. May. Peter: Why does Mrs. Reitsamer do that?]] But the cheap way to delay that nothing happens – so you can still tell people when they ask them: We would have agreed anyway, but we couldn't, so we postponed it – it's too simple. In my opinion, therefore, a deadline proposal in such matters is more than required. ==References== November is enough time to deal with that. - Point one. Point two: We cannot recognise any budgetary burden in this request, because it is repayable. Point three: It is also often in the interest of the children concerned, or it may easily be in the interest of the children concerned that in some cases the name of the father is not disclosed. It may be essential for the entire later life course of the child that the name of the father is not revealed. This is a protection that the mother has not only for himself but also for the growing child. If someone makes use of it, then he will consider it thoroughly, because it is not a lot of advantages not to have the father at his disposal, especially as a payer, but that is a serious decision. If it's met, you have to respect it. It is hard enough that such victims then have to repay the money. That's hard enough! But at least in the critical phase, during the karenz period, we should not let them down financially. I am therefore saying: The proposal should be brought to the House quickly after a committee has consulted it. If you do not trust in the Committee to vote in favour of it, you will at least show the flag and vote against it. That too is a political statement! But simply pressing around the political statement is neither parliamentary nor courageous, but the opposite of both. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11574	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11595	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is really incomprehensible – if we listen to this short debate – that such a request cannot be dealt with, although, as you can see, it would have a majority here in the house, and then cannot be voted accordingly. This is all the more incomprehensible to me than – as has often been done – the effects of this request are absolutely cost-neutral. By the way – and I would also like to say that – I also think that this is worthy of discussion. But to get a majority in this House, the majority have agreed to formulate this request in such a way that it is cost-neutral. But I would like to say something again to the men's address in the ÖVP, also to colleagues Drinkl, who spoke here. If you say, We cannot get to the point that there is a fatherless society – so if you obviously want to determine the characteristic of a fatherless society or a society with fathers exclusively on whether fathers pay or not – then this is also a very pitiful sign of your family policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It may be seen in a tradition with the interview your clubman Khol gave about one and a half years ago. At that time he reported on the Sunday breakfast, during which he devoted himself to the problems of the family because he had so much to do during the week and had no time to do so. – If this is the conceptuality of the father or father society, I think you should learn a lot about what else there is in duties for the fathers – in addition to the numbers. On the other hand, I would like to advise you once again to consider this – support all the advisory services – ask yourself! – from the Christian field, all the advisory bodies that have made the protection of the child the centre of their concern, this request and this concern. They also argue with the protection of the child, saying that it is not evident that single mothers who do not want or can not disclose the name of the father are punished for good reasons. This has, in some cases, bad consequences. You might even suspect two things: On the one hand, You obviously want to punish women, women who do not conform to your norm of family life, for whatever reason. These apparently belong to the men in the ÖVP punished and sanctioned. The second, not even suspicion, but the conclusion that you may not have considered is: How many women will consider bringing a child to life under particularly critical and bad circumstances when they know that society cannot support and absorb it accordingly? – Be it due, among other things, to an increased karenz money, whereby, in order to underline this once again, they undertake to repay it if they are able to do so, i.e. in later years when the child is taller. It's pretty absurd how you dance around such a request and that you can't decide to treat it. But it is an experience that only seamlessly follows the experience we have gained here, namely that content you cannot agree on in the ÖVP and in the SPÖ is not treated but delayed and stored in sub-committees. They're just not being treated. But in this case it's even more scratchy. In this case, it is not a question of The two of them cannot agree, but in this case it is a question - one has to stress it again - that four parties and one half of a group, namely those in the EIA, are in favour of this request. That is, a few men try to prevent this by means of a family-anti-family, even almost revancist kind of politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11650	No one is reported in the word anymore. We shall therefore vote, and we shall vote on the request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 504/A by Mr Öllinger concerning a federal law amending the Karenz leave grant law and the Karenzgeldgesetz, a period of time until 3. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11687	This will allow us to resume the negotiations on points 1 to 7 of the agenda. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the The voluntary speaking time is set at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11711	Mr President. High house! Member of the Federal Government, I note, is not present. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But you just need to open your eyes!]] - The Federal Minister is coming. We have dealt with Austrian nuclear policy before the urgent question and the setting of deadlines. On the one hand, it was complained that the Freedom Party had left the consensus that had existed among the parties. On the other hand, it was suggested that nothing has changed in the Austrian anti-CFC maintenance. I think that both claims cannot be maintained in this form. Unfortunately, Mrs Federal Minister, Austrian nuclear policy has changed, so that what remains today is really only a smallest common denominator. Of course, this smallest common denominator is also carried by the Greens, but we add our regret that this denominator has become very small. - I'll come back to that. The second, namely the regret that the liberals had changed their line, is also irrelevant, because I have never seen a line with the liberals, so I cannot see any change in the line either. [[Call the liberals.]] It was always representatives of the Freedom Party who gladly observed and noted a special proximity to the Bavarian CSU. It was your party observer, who called himself the political guardian of the deceased Bavarian Prime Minister Franz Josef Strauss. If you remember exactly, then you will know that the first opera ball demonstration, which you have highly scandalized to this day as the epitome of chaos, took place on the occasion of an increase of the Austrian population by Franz Josef Strauss in connection with the anti-atomic holding. Where's your line? – Mrs Haller today complained very strongly that the danger came not only from the reform states and the EU candidate countries but also from the West. That is right, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why I do not fully understand your position and your party chairman's position on this matter. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the line of the Federal Government and to this smallest common denominator. – Mrs Federal Minister! It's changed a lot. It has, for example, changed the line, which the Federal Government has used more and more frequently, namely: If we cannot get out of the way, we want as good safety standards as possible. This is not a continuation of the previous line, but it is almost the opposite. The policy of safety standards, which no one has defined, is an invitation to nuclear lobbys to continue research, to invest in this area, and to be introduced with their offers in particular in the reform states seeking to join the EU. Without this line of reform, without modernising the line of scrap reactors, these operations would no longer be expected, Mrs Federal Minister! Which business these are, you know. I think it's good for you in your conversation with Milos Zeman to address the question of nuclear power stations once again. But I miss the Federal Government's presence in those EU Member States, in those key EU Member States, which are doing billions of heavy business in the nuclear industry. Where did you comment, when did you comment on the activity of companies like Siemens, Framatom, EdF, who are whitewashing large business at these scrap reactors? – In this The area would be very hard words. There is now the hope – and Monika Langthaler has explained it – that the change of government in Germany may no longer give the public support to such companies so generously. What have you done against the Hermes-Kredite, Mrs. Federal Minister? One more thing, because that concludes the circle: The whole nuclear industry cannot really be referred to as a market economy, which has already been said by several speakers. Starting with nuclear research on the question of final storage and uranium degradation – you have these states in the background everywhere. Without this, all of this would not be expected. So where you're staying. Your plea for limiting these research, these subsidies? One last thing: In connection with uranium mining, companies such as Rio Tinto, well-known by the Affaire in Lassing, also operate their partly bloody business with Konnexen to the German nuclear industry. In the Namibian Rossing, Rio Tinto illegally destroyed Uranium and was against UN resolutions. Then this illegally dismantled uranium was circulated on such veiled paths that the origin was no longer clearly recognizable. In this deal, Rio Tinto not only held back with the nuclear weapons states such as France, England, the USA, but also with the German nuclear industry. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! That is why I would also expect you not to present your well-known nationalist undertones, now dressed in anti-atomic arguments, in connection with the reform states, but perhaps to present your criticism where it is really about corporations that are involved in bloody, opaque and partially corrupt business. I was very surprised at how you said today in connection with the activity of Rio Tinto, because your whole interest in information seems to have been wiped away at once when it comes to your good connexe to your burgers around your mountain authorities. That's inconsistent. This does not show any line. Mrs. Federal Minister! But one thing I'm telling you: This smallest common denominator is so small that it already represents an absolute minimum for us today. And if clear words are not finally found with regard to such groups, it will be difficult to make an efficient policy in this regard, and then you will probably find an ever-increasing misunderstanding there, whether you travel to Slovakia or to the Czech Republic. For one does not say wrong: We demand you, although our states are poor, although the social product is not too high, big decisions and large investments. Where does the same critique remain in the direction of Western industry when it comes to powerful, powerful and politically very influential corporations? – That is why we are asking for a little more political courage, including you, Mrs Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11756	Mrs. Mag now has herself. Prammer to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11777	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak briefly, because I do not want to leave what Mrs Petrovic has said in the room. For me, it says: In Austria, there should be no change in nuclear policy or anti-atomic policy at all, because there is only one objective: to make Europe and beyond the world nuclear-free, and I have already said this in the morning, no nuclear power in the energy sector and no nuclear power in the arms field either. The security debates that are currently taking place within Europe are not aimed at setting themselves in a safe nest with the safety upholstery, but the opposite is the case. The more security debate is debated, the more it becomes visible that it is not going and that it is not, above all, retiring. For a long time, the issue of security was not at all a criterion, and it was only the profit and the economy that was at the heart of it. It is necessary to also argue and work on this rail of safety issues in the direction of exit. In this context, however, I would like to say one more thing: We know that those nuclear power plants, which are operated by states within the European Union, are usually not new. We know the problems these states have with it. They face almost insoluble problems, they don't know how it goes on, how it looks with the final deposits. We know exactly that reprocessing is not an alternative, and also these operators know it, the corporations know it, and the states know it. It is, of course, a huge challenge within Europe to engage in this debate. I would also like to say quite clearly that changes have also taken place in France. France – which is a lot of escapes – has currently closed down some power plants for security reasons. That's a novum, that's an absolute novum. That is to say, there the security debate has already fallen on fertile ground. I think that will follow a lot more, and I think that this will also be a topic in countries like Germany and beyond. Where I give you a hundred percent right, the fact is that those groups that have so far done their business in Western Europe must not escape to the East, i.e. in those countries which, so to speak, receive this scrap, not receive, and believe, anything "besier" – under the lead marks – in order to create the economic link to the European Union. It will certainly be necessary, in turn, to point out about the security debate on the safety rail that one cannot work: If this is not accepted in the West, it cannot be accepted in the candidate countries either. That is why it is also necessary for us to establish clear conditions within these accession negotiations. But – I have repeatedly expressed this – I do not want to play as a teacher, but I want to see these candidate countries as equivalent, and I also want to expect or accept the good will I have in my counterpart. The large companies will probably have to widen themselves in other sectors, because this perspective within Europe is on the dying branch. I am convinced of this and I am sure that this small Austria has made its contribution and will continue to do so in the future. It is important for me to have direct, very close access to the individual Member States within the European Union, but also to the candidate countries and to other countries. That is essential and important. The question of safety does not solve the problem of nuclear power plants. But the problem of security – I am convinced that – is a doorstep with which we can very well move in the direction that we will have a Europe without nuclear power plants in a medium-term, hopefully very short time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11832	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11854	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! If Mrs Petrovic makes a fight to prove that the liberals have left the line of anti-atomic policy, this venture will certainly fail, and I will come to see it in detail. I only interpret it as a result of the election in the Federal Republic of Germany and note that the traffic light is shining again. Ladies and gentlemen! I recall the debates that have taken place here in the House during the establishment of the Mochovce nuclear power plant and the negotiations between the Federal Chancellor and his colleague Mečiar. In conversation was the closing of Bohunice in the case of the commissioning of Mochovce. Mochovce was dangerous, there were deficiencies listed by an international expert committee. Now everything is different. According to the IAEA report, this Mochovce is now – in parentheses: Bohunice was not closed – a safe nuclear power plant, as we know. One simply did not mention the containment in this safety statement, but did not mention it, i.e. the area that is actually concerned with it and which is responsible for Mochovce being an unsafe, dangerous nuclear power station. Now I'm asking: What negotiations have actually taken place after the start of the pilot operation of Mochovce? What are the results of the alleged negotiations in the Federal Government's nuclear policy? – You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, accuse us of leaving the Austrian anti-AKW line. We liberals – I can tell you that – do not let us abuse your placebo proposals for this four-party proposal, which he is now, so that you can say: We have a common line! – Because with this request, you will scatter your eyes to the people of Sand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I note that we are the only ones to pursue a clear, comprehensible and consistent anti-CFC policy and also to take due account of the legitimate safety needs of the Austrians. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, have the opportunity today to give your assent to the request for freedom, which is based on the unanimous resolution of the Upper Austrian Government – that unanimous resolution, which is based on the junkimization of a binding exit scenario as a prerequisite for accession to the European Union. SPÖ and ÖVP are called upon to end their double-mortarity, the double-mortarity of their anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I quote: Nuclear energy may be a very great opportunity for mankind, but we will still have to invest a lot of money and also time in research. It would be irresponsible not to develop this young technology further. – You know, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who said this? [[Intrusion calls from the honourable Member smoke-callat and mag. Schweitzer.]] This was her predecessor as the Minister for the Environment, the representatives of the European Parliament of the ÖVP, Marilies Flemming, who did so on 15 July. ==References====External links== The SPÖ also has a realistic opportunity to come from the lip confessions – as such – by voting in favour of this request for an actual anti-CFC policy. I recall the declarations of government by Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky in 1990, 1994 and 1996 and also by the Federal Chancellor Klima from 1997. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! It is not done simply to find a new language system, which reads as follows: Western safety standards are required. It is – every expert will confirm this to you – and I am not aware of anyone who has given a different opinion in this regard – that it is constructively conditional, not possible to request a Western security standard at East-AKWs. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the Atomic Liability Act. The law as such with follow-up steps, which are necessary, is a better condition than it is provided by the current nuclear industry-friendly law: for example, an increase in liability amounts, away from the channelling towards nuclear power plants. In other words, the scope of liability is a little wider, there is a ease of information and so on. One of the disadvantages is that we cannot join those agreements, such as the Paris and Brussels agreements, which also have liability funds, which also means that we have no access to the small funds in the event of damage. An advantage is certainly the application of Austrian law, the jurisdiction of Austrian jurisdiction. The problem is just the intrusion. That means how does the execution take place? – An access option would only be given if, for example, in the event of a disturbance, in the event of an accident in East-AKW’s foreign assets is in Austria; this is usually not given. That is to say, this law – which we will agree with – is only an actual improvement, although step two follows, and this step requires two activities by the Federal Government in order to conclude such bilateral liability agreements, or this step requires two to be taken by the Federal Government at international level to improve international nuclear liability. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals will look very closely at this – I still have the words and statements of the urgents in mind – to what extent you are actually able by the Federal Government, by the government parties, to do so and to take this second step, which is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e11937	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report was not required. I would ask you to take the seats because we now have a number of votes to vote on. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1402 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this resolution to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 139.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser and Mr Comrades on European nuclear exodus concepts and the ban on nuclear weapons stationing. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on a comprehensive constitutional ban on nuclear weapons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Oberhaidinger, Mr Moser, Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on AKW Temelin. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. (E 140.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades concerning "further process of the federal government in the anti-Atom line". Whoever agrees here may give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1403 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 1404 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1405. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1406 report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1407. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1357 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1415 of the Supplements. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I would therefore like to begin by voting on the part concerned by the motion and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 25 para. 1 introduced. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. I leave immediately on § 25 para. 1 vote in the version of the Government template. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This part of the law is accepted by the majority of the government template. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with its title and receipt in 1357 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1415 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to declare this by means of a sign. – Consent is unanimous. A unanimous vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for the draft law, to have a similar sign. The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the 1415 Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. This resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 141.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 230/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and comrades concerning additional employment opportunities for trainees of the teaching profession Recycling and disposal technicians (1408 of the supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 231/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and Comrades on the development and coordination of teaching professions in the environment (1409 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12177	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. We are starting the debate with a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12205	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Petrovic in particular! I can't believe I'm going to go back to the green line on anti-atomic policy, but now you have managed to reject a request that you have made in committee together with the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12226	Deputies! The item on the agenda is already over!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12241	You have rejected a request that Mr Anschober supported in the Upper Austrian Landtag with his group. So much for the green line on anti-atomic policy today. I think that was a little more than a line of snakes you drove in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] But what is it, Mr Wabl! Passing has happened. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] On the matter I am called by the Clubobmann, the "saint Andreas".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12283	Deputies! The President is also of the opinion that you should talk about it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12298	I will then be right on the matter, Mr President. [[Abg. Wabl: This is a wish that cannot be fulfilled with him!]] Despite enormous financial efforts – it has now become apparent that the money has gone out – the so full-bodiedly announced attitude of all job seekers could not be brought about; this problem could not be solved. There is still a large number of job seekers. In the meantime, the money has gone out, which was so generous, especially for the employment of young people with partial weaknesses, to the window. That is why I believe that the Barmüller proposals have their right, because they show a way to create new jobs in the environment, namely to create meaningful jobs. This possibility, however, has been taken by the least. I mean, it was taken by a few, because in Austria, the framework conditions for these new professions are simply not given. That is why, in the course of this debate, I suggest that we consider, in the case of the German Federal Minister, the reorganisation of the Waste Management Act, namely the Waste Management Act 2000, whether it would be useful to develop a so-called circular economy law according to foreign models, which would create the appropriate framework conditions for asking those professions requested by Mr Barmüller in his applications in the future. If there is a circular economy law, then I can imagine that demand will rise quite suddenly and thus create useful vocational training opportunities. I would therefore also like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12355	The motion for a resolution just read is sufficiently supported and implemented in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12379	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I do not want to make the mistake of Mr Schweitzer to turn away from the subject. I'll stick to the subject. It's about the waste management and recycling specialist. In the broadest sense, of course, one could also add radioactive waste, and in this respect, for example, Dukovany would be added. These are wastes that could fit in. That is why I do not disagree when I mention that today's "Kronen-Zeitung" can be seen, that Slovakia is obviously so afraid of the threats of freedom that it promises the exit from nuclear energy under the new government. – This is only a small comment and yet appropriate to the subject and shows that the policy of this government is correct, which clearly confirms itself here again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Before you get excited again, Mrs Barmüller, I would like to address the Liberal Forum and Mr Barmüller's requests very positively. I appreciate its constructive nature, which has given various opportunities to deal with the subject of vocational training in the environment. There was the training experiment for recycling and disposal technicians, which then expired. But something has happened: There are now recently this professional type of waste disposal specialist/waste management specialist with the division in wastewater and waste area, each of which can be taken into account for two years. I am glad that there is, but I still have a somewhat crying eye, concerning – of course, this is a philosophical dispute – the specialization of the teaching professions. I myself came from a large company and have spent many years dealing with this problem and in particular with the environmental protection and the opportunities for doing so. I can tell you that in recent years we have animated young people with too much optimism into training, which in fact did not open up to them the possibilities they had imagined. I can tell you that we have trained four young people in this teaching profession at Lenzing AG. None of the four could be used in the operation – all landed in production. I would therefore like to warn against overrated ideas and optimism as far as this whole range of training in these environmental professions is concerned, many of which already exist. For all those interested, I refer to three really good brochures from the Upper Austrian Environmental Academy: "Environmental protection as a profession after the Matura", "After the studies – continuing vocational training" and "Environmental protection as a profession after the compulsory school". So you see what palette there is, but, ladies and gentlemen, we don't think about it: There are no jobs necessary for this. This is where we should be careful. That is why I was and still believe that even in this profession of recycling and disposal technician, one should have sought more training on the basis of a chemical worker, a locker – I think, chemical workers would have been good – so that the young man, the young woman who makes this training, at the same time also has a recognized witness as a chemical worker to have better opportunities in working life. I have looked at the numbers and can tell you that very few courses have been offered so far. According to the resolution, we should get a report after three years, and then it will become interesting. But I do not believe that this breakthrough, which we or some of us have believed to achieve with this separation and specialization, will succeed. The young people are trained in a field for which there are not so many companies at all. We can only hope that more money will be available from the public authorities to be able to introduce, for example, all local environmental technicians, similar to the labour inspectors. This would provide us with air, but it's more about those people who make an additional education after a matura. At present, it does not look as if many would take up these teaching occupations. So I warn against putting too great a hope in this area. For training in general, once again: I believe that the path of these "smart-track trainings" in teaching professions which we are currently strongly forced by the economy will lead rather to hidden auxiliary workers and that this path is not correct. And with regard to the teaching profession of the recycling and disposal technician, which Barmüller referred to and for which he wants to achieve an improvement, I believe that we have gone a wrong way with the regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12441	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12462	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the content of the discussion which has also been held in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on these proposals, but I am not sure that the Liberals will not support the solution that has been found, not because we have assumed from the problem that people who have been in re-training and who have been trained as the recycling and disposal technician had to recognize that they are not acceptable at the end of the re-training period. That was something they did not expect at the beginning of the training and what they had not been told. On the basis of this problem, the motion for a resolution has emerged aimed at allowing such trained persons as leaders to be the head of a landfill. This was not possible by the Deposit Regulation. These applications have not only been negotiated in the Committee for over one and a half years and have been postponed over and over again, apparently they have also been voted with the social partners outside the House. The result, which has now come out, also calls honourable Member Doppelmüller himself unsatisfying for the problem, and I share his view. I therefore share them, ladies and gentlemen, because I am convinced that we must in general ensure that qualifications are acquired from persons and that, if you can acquire them in a modular way, you are suitable for professional training in certain areas and not in others. If we find this access and get away from the rigid "castle-making" when inventing teaching professions – where those who learn them can no longer be used over time – then this could bring increased flexibility to the labour market. This is something which is called for by the Liberal Vehement, and we believe that this should finally be the subject of a rethinking by the government. Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberals, which refers to a circular economy law, is without a doubt correct from his fundamental intensification, but I am surprised that Mr Schweitzer did not at least take the National Environmental Plan to the aid of the government in the flat-rate, as it is proposed, it is in fact not a latte for the government. For one could certainly pass such a circular economic law, but it might not be so different from what we already know today. But as long as there are no lattes that are at least based on the National Environmental Plan, in which all these objectives are already formulated and in which the Federal Government has also committed itself to taking these objectives into account in the legislation, such a resolution does not make sense in this lump sum. Mr Schweitzer! Perhaps it would be appropriate for such a resolution to be discussed in advance next time. It would be possible then to look out more of content – and perhaps also of consent from the Liberals. In this case, however, because the latent is too low for the government, there will be no consent from the Liberals. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: The two Liberals' motions for resolutions have led to a consultation not only of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but also of the social partners. However, the solution that has been found is not a problem-adequate one, in particular those who have made the training a recycling and disposal technician or a recycling and disposal engineer will not find a larger market than before. That is why we see the objective as missing and will not support the solution proposed here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12511	Mr Stampler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12533	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before responding to Mr Barmüller's request and to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf and Mr Doppelmüller, I would like to say a few words about the history of the teaching profession of the recycling and disposal technician. The 1992 Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs regulation created a new teaching profession as a training attempt, namely the recycling and disposal technician. In the original draft, the teaching profession was structured in such a way that from the third year of teaching either the field of waste or the field of wastewater could be selected and trained. Finally, however, for the duration of this training experiment, a uniform teaching profession, which provides for the training of waste water and waste in a teaching profession, was enforced. I think we can agree on one thing: In principle, the creation of a new job, which meets the modern requirements and wishes of the economy and of the workers, taking into account current environmental and waste management problems, is to be welcomed. Finally, it was an understandable wish of the economy – and I would like to say, too, that I see this – to separate this teaching profession, as originally planned, in a teaching profession of waste management and recycling specialist/waste and a waste disposal and recycling specialist/waste water. It was also a concern that it should be possible to use the graduates of this course of teaching on waste also as the head or deputy head of the entrance control of a landfill, but only for building waste masses or land excavation. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation of April 1998 split the profession of recycling and disposal technician into two sectors, namely waste and waste water. This makes it possible to respond much better to the requirements and problems in the individual sectors. In order to be allowed to use recycling and disposal technicians as Head or Deputy Head of Input Control at landfills, the following shall be noted: Depository is not a landfill. Here we have to distinguish. There are different, depending on which eluate classes of garbage the landfills are intended for. And since the new regulation, the use of the above-mentioned experts as the head of the entrance control for building slabs and floor excavations has not been opposed. This is also the case in the profession. Another step in the wastewater sector is now also recognition as a waste water treatment plant. That actually makes everything okay for these two professions. However, on the requirement to apply the scheme to all landfills, the following must be said: In the case of waste and residual waste, the head of the input control shall have full responsibility for the proper implementation of the controls. Due to the diversity of waste and the removal of samples to be carried out, and much more, extensive chemical training is essential. For reasons of safety, I therefore take the view - and I believe that it is also shared by the Minister - that the possibility of using waste disposal and recycling technicians as head of input control at waste dumps would be too far-reaching because it is also our responsibility to ensure that nothing can happen. I believe that this is a reasonable solution, and it must be said that land handling and building wastes are the greater number of landfills and therefore already a massive upgrading of this teaching profession. The joint motion for a resolution by the government parties is only a final consequence of what has just been said. We would like to see the development of this profession, the number of apprentices and so on, and to be reported to Parliament after three years. Then you can see what has proved to be true and what to change. Political rapid shots are, I do not think, the right solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12588	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12609	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! It is right for some Members to believe that too precise training or training tailored too much to specialization takes place in teaching professions. In the end, however, the general situation in the apprenticeship market is forcing us to go new ways. If we do not want to fall asleep in the future, we must see that there are opportunities for future jobs in particular in the areas of environment and recycling. I often have the impression that the Social Democratic Federal Chancellorship in Austria, which has been continuing for almost three decades now – the Social Ministry has been in SPÖ hands for 30 years – is accompanied by a permanent and constant deterioration in apprenticeship training and in the field of employees. Despite billions of expenditure over the last two years, it is not only possible to accommodate those 7 300 young people who are still without employment, without training. A dark sign on the other hand, namely in the field of the economy, is that there are about 1 300 teaching places less than the year before. There is a lack of responsibility and a lack of awareness of justice towards some of the citizens, but we then demand excellent work in their professional activity. It is often criticised by the economy for the shortage of skilled workers, but we or businesses are not prepared to finance the training accordingly. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: The environment is suitable for the economy, isn't it?]] They fit essentially. I quite agree. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I can no longer hear business firms not employ apprentices today because it is a similar relationship and more similar. Please, what did the companies do earlier? In the past, businesses without millions of apprentices had trained because they were needed in the enterprises. And today... [[Further call of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Yes, the Liberals would certainly like the students and the apprentices to pay for the training again. I can imagine this in your mind, Mrs Colleague. [[New call of the abg. Schaffenrath.]] The introduction of a museum education would certainly be in the interests of the liberals. In your case, this would probably be financed by Mr. Hazelsteiner. But I'll tell you one thing: We're trying today... [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You represent a different opinion than your club!]] Are you ready? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Ask your club boss! He'll tell you something else!]] See how broad our opinion can be in this sector – unlike your group! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But you must be careful not to be excluded the same as Mr Mentil!]] Yeah, I know you're in the Tyrolean country election campaign, but that has nothing to do with this. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You must be careful!]] - Do you want to threaten me? You can't threaten me, no, really not! You're far too weak to do that. In the field of vocational and apprenticeship training in Austria, the ach so much praised social partners fail. The social partners, who always pretend to have an example across Europe, fail in this area too. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I know you can't hear this, especially the SPÖ gentlemen, that we still have 7 300 young people in Austria who are out of work. Your Federal Chancellor has promised everyone a job and has said that we have the situation under control, we are now the great EU presidents. I can only tell you one thing: This EU Presidency of Austria is nothing but a major political show at the expense of local taxpayers, at the expense of local businesses and at the expense of work! Yeah, I'm talking about that, and do you know why I'm talking about it? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are talking about the teaching profession of the recycling and disposal engineer!]] Because 30 years of socialist rule in this country have resulted in you being unable, despite billions of subsidies, to offer young people a future. And that's what you're writing behind your ears!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12749	Now, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12786	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope you will understand that, following the statements just made by Mr Gaugg, on the subject of apprenticeship and economic situation in the general and EU Presidency, I will return in particular to the issue of training requirements and also the employment opportunities for the recycling and disposal specialist. I'm allowed to take a brief look at the following: This is not a question of what the economy has expected or hoped for from us, but it is precisely the entrance control in the landfill sector – and I believe that it will be a broad agreement – where the regulatory forces and skills forces in the market can play a very small role, if at all, and therefore, on the other hand, regulatory regulations and qualification rules play a major role. It is about the health of the locals, it is about the possibility of old loads arising here, it is about the need to deposit waste in such a way that it does not worry any more forever. We believe that we have an important new teaching profession with the new training scheme for the waste management and recycling specialist. The broad impact of this teaching will ultimately be represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs in a number of years of reporting. At the same time, however, I should like to say that we believe that we want to leave the entrance control at land handling and building waste disposal sites to those people who have completed such training, but we do not think it appropriate and appropriate to have the input control carried out at waste and waste disposal sites, e.g. household waste dumps, as we know them so far, carried out by waste and recycling experts and women. This seems too far-reaching to us, we do not think it makes sense. However, on the relevant figures, I would like to say that the land handling and building waste disposal policy represents the more numerous landfill type in Austria, so that the employment offered there is at least one that comes new. I should like to remind you that the recycling and disposal specialist in the field of waste – the sensible separation in the field of waste and waste water has already been mentioned by Mr Stampler – has also been qualified for work as a waste officer in a company, i.e. has a relatively broad field of activity. I would also like to point out, as it has been said, that this training scheme is too narrow, that it is very likely that there is a possibility of changing to related teaching professions such as that of the chemical laboratory. It can be obtained through a simplified additional examination of the qualification for the profession of chemical laboratory, and then, in the presence of a corresponding practice, a two-year practice, including the management of the input control of a residual and mass waste dump. With all due regard to Mr Barmüller's initiative, I believe that it was in the direction of the rejection of any type of deposit for graduates of this direction that Barmüller wanted to take. On the other hand, there should be and will be interesting employment opportunities for recycling and disposal professionals in the area of building waste and land handling sites, in particular as a waste agent in the economy. Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12833	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Heinzl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. 6 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12857	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg's speech on the subject which is now before us, I would not like to go further, but I would say that today I had the impression that you, honourable Member - and that was clearly heard from your remarks - seem to be pleased that in Austria we do not have all the apprentices in the process of work. The honourable Member, your statements have protested about scientific ignorance and polemics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] High house! Coping with the problem of pollution is one of the most pressing challenges of our time. Due to the quantity of goods produced and the increasing chemicalisation of these goods, the prevention and reuse and disposal of problem substances and waste water treatment have become an almost uncontrollable problem. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Incorrect speech! Turn around!]] Listen carefully, Mr Gaugg, you will need it! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grabner.]] – For this reason, environmental technology has long been regarded as a future industry. Avoiding environmental pollution clearly takes precedence over limitation and rehabilitation. The reduction of dust and energy flows and the closure of drug cycles are crucial. In addition, clean technologies increase the competitiveness of our domestic companies. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In Austria, waste is currently estimated at 39 million tonnes per year. In order to be able to meet this huge amount of waste, we urgently need high-quality skilled workers. This is why, among other things, the teaching profession of the recycling and disposal technician was also established. Similarly, a well-functioning collection and recovery system has been established over years in order to continuously reduce the amount of waste that has been collected. In international comparison, Austrians are in the forefront of collecting and recycling waste and thus make a valuable contribution to resource conservation and reducing landfill volumes. With increasing public awareness of environmental problems, environmental technologies and production processes are becoming increasingly important and interested. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental protection industry is an important and expanding area in the Austrian economy. Around 11 000 workers are currently primarily concerned with environmental protection and environmental technology in more than 250 Austrian companies. It is all the more strange for me to compare these quite impressive employment figures with the number of apprenticeships offered in this sector of the economy. According to the educational report 1997 of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, for example, in 1996 only 28 apprentices across Austria stood for the training attempt to recycle and dispose of technicians in training. In 1998, however, there seems to be no significant increase in the range of apprenticeships for these occupations. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder when the economy and ultimately the enterprises will finally become aware of their responsibilities and offer teaching places for these new and future teaching professions. The Socialist Group, Mr Hohes Haus, Mr Gaugg, has long known where the path must be in the field of youth employment. The maintenance of youth employment is not only a quantitative but also a qualitative issue. We must get away from the trained and any interchangeable assistants to qualified professionals. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the resolution of Members of Parliament, Mr Doppelmüller, and thus contribute to the establishment of new, forward-looking professions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12917	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1408. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 142.) We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1409. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. . This report has been largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades concerning the initiative of the Federal Government to draft a circular economy law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 855/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (1414 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e12999	We're coming to the 10th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so that I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Schieder. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13023	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Rules of Procedure introduces some improvements, particularly as regards deadlines. So far, it has been planned that the preliminary consultation of a popular desire should take place within one month after allocation and that the National Council should at least receive a report after another six months. This six-month frist is now shortened to four months. Plenipotentiaries of a people's desire are given the right to take two more representatives, general debates and "hearings" – under quotation marks – are publicly held, sound and image images will be allowed to report the Committee's reports to a people's desire, to be sent to the Plenipotentiaries and their alternates, whose publication is in the "Vienna Newspaper", and in addition, the right to support any citizen who is entitled to support a popular desire, the reports when he requests them to be sent free of charge. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, just as small a change as you think, and I regret that the debate in the Committee has ended in the way that the opposition parties have, above all, been concerned to say what they would like to have on other things, and, compared to this huge awareness of wishes, what is now being decided is small. But this is not fair to the fact that our Rules of Procedure are constantly extending minority rights. I do not want to regret and say that this is the great reform of the Rules of Procedure, but I think that these are essential points and we should also see the fact that there are already minority and control rights in the Austrian Parliament which go far beyond what is in other countries on these rights. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: In Syria!]] The fact that five Members may request that an opposition request be put on the agenda for the plenary session after preparation and that every small group may request a special meeting once a year is not the case, as you, Mr Barmüller, have called in between, only in "Syria", but this right of minority there is in no parliament in Europe, except in Austria. That each member of the EU's main committee – each member of the EU's main committee! - the Danish Committee has been trained to discuss a proposal, and I would like to say that the right to have each member of the committee put an item on the agenda does not even exist in Denmark. The possibility of different opinions on the Committee's report exists in some countries. The fact that five Members can force a short debate on the Committee on Inquiry's proposals et cetera can force five Members to hold a debate on the declaration made by a member of the Federal Government is only a minority of the European countries. The same is true of the urgent treatment of a written request. The provision that the matter will be determined alternately in the current hour by the political groups naturally meets the smaller groups. The objections to the agenda are another example. The fact that 20 Members, a fifth of the Members, a quarter of the Members and a third of the Members are open to another variety of minority rights is still something which is not the case in most of the parliaments. It is true that, in the European countries, half a committee of inquiry cannot be set up by the minority and half that is very possible. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum and the Freemans.]] These provisions have a bearing on each other in Europe. This is a demand that has been raised by the opposition in particular. On the other hand, I say quite openly, the experience with the behaviour of some opposition representatives in recent years. I've experienced this myself. That is why it is important to build more confidence in proper treatment. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! You will certainly say that everything is nothing or at least too little. In reality, this novel is a small but "enemy" step towards more opposition rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13074	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13095	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! As the honourable Member has already presented the individual points, I can take a very short look and only add a few additions. The current own-initiative proposal for the revision of the Rules of Procedure has primarily met the wishes of the initiators of popular desires. [[Abg. Wabl: "Great"!]] The main content relates in particular to a faster treatment of popular desires in Parliament. These are essentially the following four points: Point one: In accordance with the current amendment, which has received more than 100 000 signatures, it is necessary to deal with them within the Committee within a month, and a report must be returned to Parliament no later than four months, which may also be shorter. This period is at least one third shorter than provided for in the previous Rules of Procedure. Point two: The Plenipotentiary of a People's Desire may now, if prevented or for other reasons or for support, nominate two other persons, usually alternates, who are entitled to participate in the negotiations in the Committee. Point three: In order to make the discussions on popular desires more transparent, general debates and hearings will be held in the Committee, provided that a finalisation takes place in the Committee, and audio and video recordings are also permitted. This has not yet been foreseen in our Rules of Procedure. Point four: The Committee's reports on popular desire, including minority reports, including those not yet planned, or divergent personal opinions, shall be submitted to the Plenipotentiary and his alternate. The President also has the publication of all reports of a popular desire in the "Amtsblatt zur Wiener Zeitung". Persons who are registered in the Electoral Evidence and who have their head office in Austria now have the right to receive reports free of charge on request. An amendment was also tabled to the Committee's own-initiative proposal, namely an amendment by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Dr Graf, which agreed on additional clarifications on the prevention of misunderstandings in the previous Rules of Procedure. Among other things, § 94(5) has been clarified. As to how this paragraph should be interpreted, there was some ambiguity in one of the last plenary sessions. It is now as follows: "In such a meeting, provided that a further meeting of the National Council is envisaged for the same day, short debates in accordance with § 57a and the treatment of a urgent request or a urgent request are not permitted." § 57a refers to written replies to written requests, requests for deadlines and applications for the establishment of an investigation committee, as well as to the treatment of a urgent request and a urgent request. They shall not be allowed to attend this meeting if a second session is held on the same day. The Committee has tabled an amendment by the Liberal Forum and the Greens which allows two political groups to ask for a committee of inquiry. A group in our Parliament can already be reached with five Members. That is to say, ten Members could demand committees of inquiry so to speak. I believe that there is really no other European Parliament! That is why we have rejected it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13144	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13166	Mr President. High house! I have my colleagues. Arbitrators today do not envy his role within SPÖ as defenders or advocates of this reform of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, this also contains positive approaches, which are also welcomed by us. Mr Schieder! If you are talking about a "small but fine step in the right direction", I have to tell you: That's modest, I admit. They have also exercised themselves in appropriate modesty here. With the word "little" I really owe you. But up to a 'fine step', to an actual, even minority-friendly reform of our Rules of Procedure, it is really still very far! Thankfully, Mr Schieder, you said yes: This discussion does not deal so much with the point-by-point improvements in the treatment of popular desires, but it is – and this is the central point in every reform of the Rules of Procedure – the central question with which majority committees of inquiry can be used. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The position you take here in all the debates that concern the setting up of committees of inquiry, the role you play here is clumsy, one of democracy is unworthy! This is one of democracy's profoundly unworthy role, because you do not reject such requests with individual arguments, such as reference to a ongoing criminal procedure, bearing in mind another information by the Court of Auditors – such suggestions are at most added, these are additional auxiliary arguments that you are meeting – but you simply reject any request for the setting up of an investigative committee. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is a deeply irrational way of dealing with the Rules of Procedure and with our federal constitution! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The other question is which majority or the decision-making requirements a committee of inquiry should be set up in the future. We know examples from practice, for example the German regime: this is a natural minority law. And in fact, it is an absurdity of the particular way that those who are to be controlled, namely, the top representatives of the administration, the representatives to be controlled, can decide for themselves whether they want to be controlled or not! Ladies and gentlemen on the government banks belong to those parties that have the majority here in the House. You've seen it recently: Mr Farnleitner can order this comfortably, depending on whether it is right or not! He can say: No, my. Ladies and gentlemen of their own party, vote against! And for the sake of loyalty to the coalition, the SPÖ, the Social Democracy, is held to vote against the establishment of a committee of inquiry. It's absurd! It cannot be determined by the controller whether he is being controlled or not! [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]] And, Mr Schieder, even if you are now more interested in the "curies", which I also understand: It is a question of democracy, of a profoundly democratic principle, of whether a minority right is granted for the establishment of an investigation committee! [[Abg. Arbitrator: (the newspaper folding) I listen!]] Every state lawyer, every constitutional lawyer, will confirm that. All the other constitutions to which we sometimes refer, such as the German basic law, provide for this minority right to set up an investigation committee. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we do not even need to see abroad, especially you have been addressed by the ÖVP. Take an example from your colleague, the head of state in Salzburg! In Salzburg, the so-called proporz government – which I think is more a concentration than a proporz government – has been abolished, but that is a question of definition – is known to have been abolished. As of the next legislative period, there will be coalitions there, there will be a majority government and the parties will no longer be strongly represented on the government bank. And now, Mr. Landeshuptmann, who is also a state-lawist, says: Of course, as a corrective of this majority government – the concentration government has been abolished – we need minority law in the country day! In other words, the minority can determine which act of administrative execution in the state government is being examined. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I don't know if anyone else here is going to the speaker's desk after me, but I'm asking you: Why shouldn't what your black country captain in Salzburg think is right, and that is right, be cheap here? – You have to explain this to me first! – Mr Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You're right, no one trusts in the ÖVP anymore!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: May I make an intercession: but this is not done in accordance with the law of the criminal proceedings, nor with the right of a chairman to put people in prison. It's not that far!]] There is certainly no such right in parliamentary committees of inquiry! [[Abg. Arbitrators: We are not very far from it!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't argue with me, Mr. Schieder!]] It is not true that you must be seriously concerned about the protection of witnesses. That's not true at all! With your experts from the Ministries and the Legal Service, you could be able to do so in three hours! – create proper standards that would allow proper handling of witnesses and information in investigation committees. That's not a question at all! But, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to! [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it! Cover! Concealer party!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Put over the virtues of oblivion!]] They do not want to be controlled here, that is the central problem! You reject stereotype any control! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But if there is a change of opinion, you can prove it. In the light of our comments, we are tabling an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Your attitude to the fundamental values of parliamentary democracy is also measured by the voting behaviour you show in this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13357	The amendment tabled by Mr Krüger is, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. [[Calls and appeals between Deputies Schieder, Dr. Graf and Dr. Khol.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Mag. Barmüller! I'd like to give you a quiet start, so I've been waiting. - Please, you're the next one.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot guarantee that Mr Arbitrator will remain silent during my speech, because, ladies and gentlemen, we from the Liberals are now sharing the fundamental claim of this Rules of Procedure Novelle, which is, in fact, only concerned with popular desire, the improvements. These will also be included in the second reading. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What does "only" mean? The popular desire is important!]] The popular desire is important. But the novelle deals only with popular desire and not with all the other pressing control questions that exist in this House. And on that, Mr. Deputy – and only on it – my "only" was referring. This is not a devaluation of the issue in itself, but an indication of the limitation made by the government groups in the context of the debate of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to add something: It is interesting to say that the report that is being made can be sent to anyone registered in the electoral register on request, but with no single word mentions that there should be, in this context, a use of the new media, which would indeed be a simplification. It is true that, in the end, the reports are also posted on the Internet, but it would be appropriate to refer to the fact that Parliamentary materials are increasingly made available via the Internet. This is a use of new media which is to be supported and which has already been vehemently demanded by young Members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder said today that there is an instrument that is not being handled in other countries, namely the convening of a special meeting by a group of this House. Member of the Arbitrator! In that I give you the right: This is a special scheme that exists only in Austria. It is true, however, that this regulation and the amendment to the Rules of Procedure have only resulted in a massive abuse of the previous number of regulations which have existed. And because it was said that this cannot be the future, a new regulation has been found. And it seems to have been felt as the smallest evil that each group now has the right to apply for such a special meeting once a year. But this is not something that was borne by a particular or reinforced concept of democracy, but something to which Parliament was required by that massive abuse that had previously taken place on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that in all European countries an investigation committee can be set up by a majority. It can also be used with a minority in about half of the European countries. There has also been a discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in which Mr Neisser has been very active and has said that he can quite imagine that a quarter of the Members could use such a committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, at the beginning of my debate, I would like to make a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Heide Schmidt and colleagues, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a request which is similar to that made by Mr Krüger. In addition, the Liberals have also expressed the proposal that two political groups should also be able to apply for such a committee of inquiry as a whole. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been argued that this is system-wide. And we've quickly looked at it again: In the Novelle Rules of Procedure of the year 1996, the group right already mentioned has been introduced to convene a special meeting. So there are political rights in our Rules of Procedure. But it is also true, ladies and gentlemen,... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was the system break!]] This is not a breach of the system, it is the introduction of a new means within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, which has good reasons. It is true that, for example, the Members who are sent to the committees are nominated by their political groups and not by a majority decision by Parliament. The right of nomination lies with the political groups and, of course, no objection to this right of nomination is raised by the majority of the National Council. That is to say, the fact that the political groups are getting more and more rights as part of the parliamentary process. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we have looked at and pointed out that, in the end, this also concerns the submission of urgent questions or urgent requests, because, in addition to the law of Members of the European Parliament, there is also a right to a political group – i.e. also an extension from the previously limited orientation of the Rules of Procedure to the individual Members to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In addition, you will also find three additional provisions in the Rules of Procedure, which relate to them, namely § 43 para. 3, § 92 para. 1 and § 99 para. 3 which also provides for the right of a political group, but in this case only to restrict those rights which can be exercised by Members. Ladies and gentlemen! What can be shown by this is that the rights of the political groups and the possibilities of political groups to demand individual funds are no longer the system-nearly establishment of our Rules of Procedure. The Liberals are therefore submitting a second amendment, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore made this separation, because the argument made by Mr Neisser in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure makes it clear that there are obviously different views on the law of the political groups, not so serious differences but on the reduction of the number of Members who can ask for an investigation committee. It is therefore appropriate today to allow the government groups to vote in favour of an amendment tabled by those members of the National Council which provides for a lower number of Members in the setting up of a committee of inquiry than would be the case if these amendments had not been tabled. That is why the representatives of the government groups are cordially invited to give their assent to one of the two amendments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13534	The two amendments tabled by Mr Magistrate. Barmüller has read, is sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. Mr Wabl has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13559	Mr President. Mr Khol, the Wabl will not always be the highlight just because you are the lowest in this House in terms of control. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is very "charmant"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that Mr Schieder has lost his bet. Mr Schieder, however, that in your speech today you have no longer referred to the "great" democratic package you have attached to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but that you have just gone into a position of defence and explained why you are so little on the way in terms of control and minority rights and are no longer prepared to make improvements, that has already disappointed me. Mr. Schieder! I know, it's difficult in a "reason" as expressed here today – especially if you don't know what higher reason Mr. Khol and what higher reason Mr. Kostelka is driving, and what marriage the two are leading. For if it is the reason ordered to prevent any price from being controlled in this House, then, Mr Khol, this reason is only in the short term intelligent and reasonable. You should think about it because it might happen that your group may be in opposition once. It's supposed to happen. Look Go to the big neighbouring country of Germany! There's something like that. And then you might be glad if the minority could set up a committee of inquiry. Mr Khol! This can go faster than you think – and as a khol thinks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will certainly not be there. The SPÖ certainly uses the Greens and the Liberals as a good card in the power poker with the ÖVP, but probably it will only travel the ÖVP until it finds something else. But I can't judge this and I don't want to address these conditions of coalitionaries any longer. Ladies and gentlemen! I would rather like to point out to you and to make it clear what is under control in this House, and how obviously the representatives of the ÖVP under the leadership of Mr Khol are systematically breaking down certain control committees. At the time, according to the results of the research committees on Lucona, Noricum and the dairy sector, we set up two additional control committees, but Mr Fasslevend, together with the ÖVP and others, is currently breaking one of these control committees. There has not yet been a single document that would have been of interest. And what the opposition wanted and demanded from documents there has been regularly rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! What you are demonstrating in this subcommittee is not democracy, but something that has previously been established in other countries. Mr Khol! I don't know what order You always spend in your series, but: What is being practised there is an increase in democracy, an increase in control. They are obviously driving it to the top! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You argued there that you could not present the documents, because this would affect private or national security interests. We have specifically agreed, Mr Arbitrator, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Committees, that there is an increase in penalties in these committees when confidential information goes to the public. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's right!]] What is the consequence? We thought that there would be a real right of review, a right of control for the minority. - No, far missing! There is walled, walled, walled! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group will no longer take part in the meetings of the Control Committee on Defence of the State via the Army's News Office and the Army's Defense Office unless those files are issued containing records of political mandates in this House. We will put this request in writing in the President's office, we will bring it in at the next meeting – and then leave the Committee. If this minimum, this minimum requirement for democratic resistance is not met, Mr Khol, I consider this not only to be an increase in control, not just as a desavowing of control, but as a disassembly of fundamental rights of the minority. And we are not willing to give up a staff for your kind of democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Somehow you have to notice!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has demonstrated here today with his incredible arrogance... – Mr Maitz, your call for interim action was probably so indecent, and that is why the President has rang! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Khol! What you demonstrated here today in connection with the circumstances worthy of investigation in the Lassing case was really the last. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] You stand here, in an incredibly weak way make the defense of your minister's duty – and then you will also be deceiving this House by saying that the Members here have been sparse in terms of mountain law. Mr Khol! You have been slowing down with your group in this area for months, yes, for years. You prevent the rights of the people, you prevent minority rights, you ensure that a mountain law taken from the monarchy is set up more or less undemocraticly! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] And then you also have the incredible presumption of taking action before this House and the Members here, they should be more embittered, more diligent in the enforcement of such requests! Mr Khol! You sit in any chamber, massage your coalition partner in the so-called reason and say that it should not be changed. But then you step in front of this house and explain: Ladies and gentlemen, do something for your money! We've got to get ourselves in the nose! [[Abg. Steibl: We are not deaf! Don't yell like that!]] – Leave me alone, Mrs Colleague! Let your Lord Khol take you out of the nose ring! [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Today, Mrs Tichy-Schreder has slandered in wonderful quotations. Do you know what you're doing here? – They are leading the increase in minority rights and parliamentary rights. I won't allow that, the Greens won't allow it – and hopefully not all other opposition parties! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you another example from another committee. Court of Auditors Subcommittee: There an official is invited to provide information on who gave him an illegal instruction. He calls the name of the person who gave him an illegal instruction. This illegal instruction has led to the illegal expropriation of Austrian citizens. They went to Austrian courts and complained there – until the Supreme Court! – and have always been right. -Decisions have been lifted, -seven decisions of this expropriation authority have been repealed because they were impossible to think. There was abuse of power in play! And what does Mr Wurmitzer do, what does Mr Lukesch do, what do the other members of this committee do after a request has been made that this official, who has given the illegal direction, be invited? – They say: We reject this, we don't want to hear what officials are. That was just the sad "high point" – obviously everything chordd with Klubobmann Khol! Then the next Causa: In Styria, the financial procuratorate is trying to intimidate those citizens who have resisted expropriation. Those farmers who have resisted the illegal expropriation are trying to kill and intimidate with complaints. And then these complaints are also lost for the Republic of Austria: 2 million schilling damage to the Republic of Austria, because obviously a wild country politician thinks he must intimidate Austrian citizens by means of complaints! What happens in this "Glorious" Committee? – Ladies and gentlemen! There was no one, no one commissioned the financial attorney, no one commissioned the lawyer of the Republic, or it is not possible to find out who that was. Mr. Khol, do you know what that is? Mrs Van der Steiermark, have you asked who it was who wanted to intimidate Austrian citizens by means of complaints? Who is responsible for these 2 million schilling damage to the Republic of Austria because these complaints were pointless and were only suitable for intimidating Austrian citizens? It then appeared a letter from a Council of State of the ÖVP, Mr Pöltl, which was addressed to Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, with the request that Mr Klima should stop these complaints, and it was suggested that it was the red partner, the red comrade who obviously wanted to intimidate citizens. There's no answer. Only: The purpose was achieved. Mr. Landesrat der ÖVP in Styria was able to stand before his citizens, before his farmers and say: I tried everything anyway so you wouldn't be sued! Mr Klima has rightly said: I don't have anything to do with that. We wanted to know: Who was he who gave these orders? – Mr Khol, understand You under democracy, you understand that under control! And you complain when I get a little louder! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry if I insult your ears. But they are insulting democracy and this House! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of committee of inquiry. Mr Khol! They only responded a year ago to the opposition's demands because of the increased action taken here and because the public demanded that there be an investigation committee in the Causa Kurden murder. There were four dead anyway. At the time, under the pressure of the public to agree under the pressure of the opposition, you agreed to hold talks to change the Rules of Procedure, to resolve those shortcomings in the procedure of the committees of inquiry, because only then could you agree to committee of inquiry. Mr Khol! You calculated exactly. You said: We may be able to break up the opposition. And you succeeded in doing this with your chief representative of this Republic. Mr Haider has received this, and Mr Haider has then made a demonstration in public: I have already checked our President, he is absolutely fine, we do not need an investigation committee. And with that, everything had already been won for you. There was obviously a side-by-side agreement – as in many other areas, similar to the one at Bank Austria and CA. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have had the agreement with the reform of the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Khol! These dirty shops will bring you little to the long run. With this kind of policy, you will not only poison the climate in the presidential, not only poison the climate in this house, but also poison the climate on the street. Mr Khol! If you continue to do so, you may have short-term successes in that They may prevent such committees of inquiry. But in the long run, I hope you will find it difficult in your own group, because I cannot imagine that all the members of the EIA are in favour of this kind of policy. I can't imagine that all the SPÖ's representatives are in favour of this kind of debate. Mr Khol! You will not be able to win on this question. You will definitely be one of the losers, because democracy also protects your rights! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You said here today that your group would not agree with the Liberal and Greens' request that two political groups should be able to set up a committee of inquiry in the future. They then figured out sharp as usual for a farmer's representative: A group can already be formed with five Members. Twice five is ten – that's incredible! Mr Schwarzenberger! I'm telling you, that's really very little. That's why I'm inviting you: Follow the example – Mr Schieder has already mentioned it today – half of the EU countries, which, for a long time, have introduced minority law for investigation committees. Let's take a quarter or take a third! But You don't want to leave your line at all: We do control ourselves, no one is talking to us in between! We buy our own opinions. Our experts we take ourselves. We also put pressure on them, as we have heard in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, to force them to write letters. You have to imagine what has happened in this subcommittee: That's where an expert is ordered. He casts 100 000 s of us, he makes an opinion, and then he writes to us that he can't make any more opinions for us, nor can he stand for this opinion because he has been put under pressure by the authority. Ladies and gentlemen! And in this committee, the official concerned comes from the competent legal department and claims: I also have a letter here that says what the expert has reviewed for the Greens is all wrong. And he was not put under pressure by anyone, and everything was all right. And then also a nice, friendly MP of SPÖ comes and says: Once again, you can see what incredibly bad experts buy themselves the Greens! Ladies and gentlemen! Make Keep it up! Keep going, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Fairy fairy tale!]] Mr Maitz. The fairy tale hour always existed when the "Tagespost" still existed. There's always been a lot of fairy tale hours. Fortunately, Mr Maitz,... – I am sure! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] For "so-called" Members, you can never set up a committee of inquiry! Mr Khol has always told me this: As long as there are "this" delegates! As all 100 percent of the members of the EIA have to be, perhaps one could set up a control committee, then the right thing would come out already! Mr Maitz! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz leaves his seat.]] You better go out, I think. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! In any case, I will retain this line that we are no longer giving up staff in the committees. Nor do I let any Mr. Haider, who thinks he has to give up in any matter for electoral reasons, stop me from doing so. I have a mandate as elected representatives of the people. And if I cannot live up to control here, because some of Mr Khol's tactical games or other "reasonable spouses" take place in the background, then I will fight for so long that this kind of disrespect here in this House does not take no further place. Ladies and gentlemen! I know this is quite indifferent to you, and it does not matter to you that for a decade the control in this House has been disassembled more and more and the establishment of an investigation committee is no longer approved by you. But, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will think about it sometime – just as Mr Neisser did, who said it would be good if this were a minority right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13816	Mr Wabl! Allow I would like to make one comment: I have a great deal of understanding that, as oppositionary Members, you, of course, also strongly criticise the government groups or the representatives of the government groups in this House. I just think that the personal accusation of 'arrogance' to a Member of this House is not a contribution to a new style for which we all want to try. The amendment you have tabled is, in accordance with business rules, supported and will be included in the negotiations. There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We are now coming to the votes, and I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1414 of the Supplements. Hiezu, MEPs have given Dr. Schmidt, Wabl and Comrades submitted two additional requests. In addition, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. Finally, the Members of Parliament have power. Stadler and comrades submitted an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposals just mentioned, according to the series, and finally on the draft law and the title and receipt. In accordance with Article 30(3), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the draft rules of procedure of the National Council may be adopted only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I therefore first of all note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Wabl and Comrades have submitted an additional request to the new regulation of § 32c para. 1, § 32nd para. 5 as well as § 79 para. 3 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There are several additional requests relating to § 33 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Schmidt, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal which provides for a new regulation of § 33 to require the establishment of a committee of inquiry to be set up by a quarter of the Members or by all representatives of two clubs, and which provides for a number of restrictions on such requests. There is also an additional request from Dr Schmidt, Wabl and Comrades, who are also referring to § 33. In accordance with this request, a committee of inquiry should be able to be set up by a quarter of the Members' requests. This request also provides for a quantitative restriction of such request. Finally, the Members of Parliament have power. Stadler and comrades submitted an additional request concerning § 33, which includes the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the request of at least one quarter of the Members. I will refer to these additional requests within the meaning of § 65 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure in the order of the list I have made. We are therefore initially voting on the first-mentioned supplementary request by Mr Dr Schmidt, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are voting in favour of this sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote in order on the second supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr Schmidt, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades. Whoever is in favour of this second supplementary request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades. Whoever for the supplementary request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. . This draft is accepted by a majority of the Committee's report, and I expressly note the existence of the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. The third reading of this draft law, which may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the end of the second reading, is scheduled as agenda item 8 for tomorrow. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1384 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Generally Acknowledged Jurisdictional Experts and Interpreters (1416 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13933	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I shall be the first speaker to give Mr Mag. Maar the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e13960	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The government paper on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the generally sworn judicial experts and interpreters primarily regulates the application, the conditions for it, the procedure, the Commission's activity and the listing of generally sworn and judicially certified experts or interpreters. However, these now have to undergo a quality assurance process – similar to a certification process – by a certification body accredited under the accreditation law. They are subject – and this is very essential – to their continued activity of permanent control by the respective court and the list-leading president. This special certification for expert or interpreting activities is such before the domestic courts, and the scope of the Accreditation Act is not covered. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure you'll ask yourself: Why this new regulation? – There are two reasons for this: On the one hand, there was the need in the economy or in the association of the generally sworn judicial experts of Austria that experts can also be certified. However, this new regulation has become necessary for another reason, and I see it as a priority. Let me say quite openly: This new regulation has therefore become necessary because the hearing law of the Chamber of Commerce changed de facto to the normative force of the facsimile in accordance with the law in force. That is to say, the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce or of the competent representatives of interests – I am thinking, for example, of the economic loyals – was usually met by the list-leading president, and there is no legal basis and no way of resisting it according to the old legal situation. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to state with all clarity that such competitive experts have been prevented. However, the new regulation is clearly improving the situation. An independent judge shall be chaired by a Commission which shall draw up an opinion on the applicant or the applicant and shall also carry out audits; the various examination steps shall be documented in detail. Two other qualified and independent experts are members of the Commission. This means that the application is transparent and can be understood by everyone – therefore also our basic consent to this government template. Federal Minister! However, despite this positive new regulation, I agree with some of the problems associated with the activity of generally sworn and certified experts. I know they do not fall into this matter of law, but should be regulated in other legislative bodies. On the one hand, the subject of the partiality of experts. Experts must have a particularly high level of expertise and experience, objectivity, independence and reliability, as well as sufficient knowledge of the nature and importance of judicial expert activity and relevant procedural provisions. I am concerned with the issue of independence, the subject of "consistency". In this context, we are faced with the problem of experts in their independence before or when ordering a court after the criminal or civil procedure – or if you want to: Imprisonment – do not be checked and controlled in detail. For example, it may happen that an expert is the majority shareholder of a company and by court order is responsible for examining the activity of another person, although he, the expert, is a minority shareholder at the company in which the person to be assessed is a majority shareholder. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we must really discuss the question of partiality. We believe that the discussion we have held in the Committee on Justice should continue: that, before or after the appointment, at least before the start of the well-founded activity, possible grounds of partiality must be displayed or documented on a form. This should be clarified later on, because it is not only a question of asserting the partiality which can naturally be claimed in the proceedings at any stage of the procedure, but also of the consequences which you know: The consequence is the nullity of the proceedings. A second point, which I would like to address briefly, is, therefore, that the judges at the Landesgericht Salzburg have also asked me, that a legal arrangement should be established to ensure that judges can verify whether the opinion has been written accordingly after the court order, and that the payment of the fees can be made dependent on it. Another example is the award of orders. Sometimes judges wait months. I should like to draw your attention to one case: Criminal proceedings Non-profit WEB in Salzburg. According to my information stand, the judges had to have been on the expert's report for four years. I think we must ensure that expert opinions are delivered in good time. Let me also turn to the question of costs. Federal Minister! At the lawyers we have the so-called "cost shins". We will continue to discuss this issue intensively if we deal with the Law on the Law on Vocational Laws. Today I am concerned with the so-called time or line barbers of the experts. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is not just a question of giving a thick expert opinion. If you look at such an opinion exactly, you can see how it is written: two-sided, or the sheet of paper is described only to one third. – Minister of State! What we need is not quantity, but more quality. Or another example – I quote from a Carinthian daily today –: Millions of disputes for advice. Klagenfurt tax advisor presents a 9 million schilling bill to the court. – I also remember the great WEB straf procedure: 80 million schilling of expert costs. If you know who did the job – that is not the experts, but the young academics who are hired under bad conditions – then you have to ask yourself: Why should the taxpayer pay for such high charges? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This law regulates access to the generally sworn and judicially certified experts with a list entry, while also ensuring quality. Federal Minister! This is primarily the responsibility of the Presidents of the Court: the President at the national courts, the Oberlandesgericht, in particular the Oberlandesgericht Wien. This applies in particular to charges. They all have their contribution to ensure that quality goes ahead of quantity. However, the task of this House and your ministry will be to continue monitoring developments in this area and to discuss the problems I have raised. Our support you have for this discussion, just as you have our support for this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can invite you to give your consent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14047	Mr Dr. Drinkl, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14069	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The expert has great importance in the judicial procedure in Austria. His opinion is not only an aid to the court, but also an important means of proof. There is therefore a right to claim that an expert is equipped with a high level of expertise and experience. Knowledge of procedural provisions, but also objectivity and independence are essential. The Accreditation Act was in fact a risk of doubting the competence of the judicially sworn experts compared to the certified experts. The new procedure is now in place to ensure that the credibility and quality of the legal experts will continue to exist in the future. At the same time, however, we have achieved that quality requirements can always adapt to the changed framework conditions in the future, by delaying entry into the expert list. Mr Maier. I am sure that the new Commissions will take seriously their task of actually reviewing the expertise and expertise of the upcoming examiners. However, I am afraid that your wish that the Chambers and representatives of interest will remain excluded from this procedure will not be fulfilled. For who, other than the interest groups, should determine whether the relevant expertise and expertise are actually given?- Oh, my God! I believe that the judges will be very happy if they are supported by relevant experts and these experts will be available to them in the Commissions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! In this context, I would also like to say the following: Many parties complain, I believe, of the fact that the appointment of experts often entails unnecessary delays in the process and additional costs. In the interests of the economy and the speed of processes, but also in order not to make the costs of enforcement an obstacle to anyone, to seek his right, I appeal to the Austrian court to order experts only if the judge does not actually have or cannot actually have this knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft, which my previous speaker has already explained in detail, will undoubtedly lead to the improvement of the quality of judicially sworn experts and interpreters. However, it will also contribute to further boosting the confidence of the population in the Austrian judicial system.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14118	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14139	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This law, as I believe, is intended to improve the situation of Austrian judicial experts on the free market as well, through the introduction of the term "judicially certified". The reason for this is not the size of the business card, and it is not necessarily a question of Austrian title search. Some aspects have already been identified by my previous speakers, which make it sense to adopt this law. Both previous speakers have responded to the increase in quality that should be associated with it, as well as to a possible reduction in the duration of the process. I agree with Mr Dipl.-Ing's amendment. Introduce Hofmann and Dr. Ofner, who was distributed and on whose essential content I now come to speak briefly. The intention of this amendment is, on the one hand, that the Commission should consist of the President-in-Office and two experts from other Supreme Courts, i.e. no posting by the Chamber or by the Association of Experts. It was also used here as the word "competence expert". That would be a good way to find out. In addition, we consider it useful to prescribe the test report prior to the laying of stones. We see another problem in the field of deadlines. The time limits for ten years are a very long period and it is difficult to make an assessment for the ten-year period. Our amendment therefore provides for a reduction, namely: three years, then five years. We seem to be ten years too long. In any event, at this time a note is to be made, and due to this notice by the judges, a line must be made. Mr Mag. Maier has referred to the time factor; the trial duration, which, as some are known, would be very short, flows through the judges in this notation. As a result, it would also be possible to clean up. We think that there should not be a transition to actually take all of the existing experts from the existing list of experts, but should also allow for an evaluation and thus a adjustment of the "body on the expert list" – under quotation marks. Those who are not accepted on the basis of the assessment can still present themselves to the Commission or draw up a sample opinion, as the amendment has been proposed. Thus, the withdrawal of the need test is given. We believe that this is indeed an increase in quality, and – now I come back to the original reason for this law – it will probably also do well for those experts who really move on the free market. We know that there are sometimes difficulties in the EU, in the German-speaking countries, in the western Länder because of the so far missing designation of "judicially certified". The aim is to ensure equality between "courtly certified" and "rightly certified", and all those experts who have been able to save Blamage from being confronted with colleagues in this takeover scheme, as it is now planned, who deliver opinions of lower quality. We believe that this amendment would bring about a corresponding increase in this quality feature that you require.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14192	I declare that the request made by Mr Dipl.-Ing. in his key points has just been made. Hofmann and comrades have been presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, the application will be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14288	Mr Smolle is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14309	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Spoštovane lady i gospodje! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's what you're already on the topic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol:... calm down!]] We Liberals will vote in favour of this proposal. - Dear colleague Khol! I would like to give a speech once again in Slovenian and then perhaps also act as a relevant competent translator. Since you cannot learn the languages of the ethnic groups, Khol – what you could have learned; as someone who is married to a Carinthian, you would have been able to teach you Slovenian – I would like to make myself available for it. Then at least I can speak for you in my mother tongue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I can't afford this with my relationship!]] The enormously increasing importance of interpreters and experts is not to be underlined from this point of view. I personally have very long experience in this profession. Since 1963 I have been working as a translator and interpreter, since 1964 for the Ministry of Justice, since 1966 I have also been a registered court interpreter. Ladies and gentlemen! If I look back at the time of my work, I must say that the meaning of the interpretation has increased enormously in the process. It is no longer just a question of participating in, translating, constantly dealing with the matter at trial, but it is a huge sense of being involved, especially because, as we know, it is often very difficult, often emotional, statements by delinquents, but also by witnesses, and it is a great sense necessary not only to translate, not only to convey words, but to understand and reproduce the sense in full correctness of the saying. As we know, a language is a very difficult matter and the transmission of a language is not easy. I would like to point out the enormous importance of interpreting in criminal law. We know that two aspects are very important: One aspect is that, in the end, one wants to know what he has to say from the one who uses a language other than the language of the court. Of course, that sounds very clear, very simple. In reality, it is not very easy because, for example, it is a witness's experience of persuasion, which someone had months ago, often years ago, and which he must then present in a foreign language, for the court, in a foreign court, without being sure if he was understood. He must, as it were, tell in confidence, in full confidence toward the interpreter – whether he be a witness, be he delinquent, be he as a participant – and in confidence that this has understood him as a foreign court. The second aspect is no less important. It is, of course, very important for the outcome of a procedure that those who ultimately sit in court have been clearly transferred to what they have to learn. I can tell you: Not rarely was the interpretation much involved in getting closer to the truth to which you can only approach, as we all know. That is why the increase in quality in this area is extremely important, and above all it is extremely important – and in this direction one has to do more – to think about the fact that people who are in these functions are actually active again and again in this field and that repetition of knowledge simply becomes a matter of course. I would like to address the great area of civil law. This will be quite difficult, because it is usually not about small sums, small claims, modest rights, but mostly about very good amounts, very appealing and extensive rights. In turn, the participation of the interpreter and the expert is often crucial. In this case, I will confine myself to the area I personally know. It is very important not to make the decision, especially in civil proceedings, dependent on, so to speak, false and inaccurate conditions, namely translations. Recently, we all know that we are working in this area, the law of the Treaty has been greatly extended. We know that the enormous globalisation or "Central Europeanisation" of the economy, especially our neighbouring countries in the East, has greatly increased the need for re-examination in these languages, so that not necessarily has kept pace – I think I can say that – the quality of the people who use these languages: whether as a translator or as an expert. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, a Carinthian Slovenian or a Burgenian Croatian can sing a song in the enjoyment of the Slovenian official language. I could present to you in a number of letters from the Carinthian authorities which show that the knowledge of the Slovenian language is extremely inadequate, and there are those who are incomprehensible in their language. In Burgenland too, there are decisions that are incomprehensible, which someone has somehow courageously formulated, so to speak, who has tried to translate into the language of a minority – apologizingly – Croatian or Slovenian grandmother. [[Abg. Gaugg: How does it look in Slovenia?]] – Excellent looks that there. [[Abg. Gaugg: They have wiped them out, the German minority!]] For example, the Hungarian and Italian ethnic groups: It is always sought that, for example, Murska Sobota, the President of the Court there, of course, the Hungarian language is powerful. So there are some ways to look away from Slovenia. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Of course I don't want to be partial. It's clear: There are also very serious shortcomings elsewhere. This also concerns documents from neighbouring countries or elsewhere. Even from Spain, for example, I have already received papers that were more or less understandable. In this context, I would like to point out, in a number of sentences, the law of the ethnic groups, especially the People's Group Act, where translations into the national languages are postulated as a kind of rule. It is, of course, very important that, if the groups are given a copy in their native language, they do not feel that the document in their language is only a replacement or a second-order version, but that they really have an equivalent document in their hands. I have to say: Often, it's not like that. In this context, at least three district courts in Carinthia are to be mentioned in praise, in which the Slovenian official language is very well approved. Minister of Justice! However, as you know, their six other district courts have been extended to include the introduction of the Slovenian official language. They know that this demand is contained in a number of ideas that Slovenian organisations have brought in. I believe that in Carinthia and the Burgenland one should also have the courage to extend the court's language. The court language is often far away from the language of the citizen. But if he needs this language in dealing with court or authority, then the language can become a central question. That is why we also call for the opening up to Europe: We support, strengthen and promote the languages of our country, because the languages of our citizens, our peoples, are a first strong bridge also to our new friends, which we would like to welcome soon in the EU! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14410	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14431	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision on the novel on the Expert and Interpreter Law concerns a part of the judicial law, which is of increasing importance – and my predecessor has rightly emphasized this – for the entire judicial administration. In many cases, the decision-making process is only possible with the help of an expert. The expert is, as it were, not only a legal means of proof, but also an indispensable aid to the judge's decision-making in the proceedings. However, the activities of the judicial interpreters have also increased enormously in recent years due to the increasing international interdependence of social and economic relations as well as the opening up of national borders. The legislator must also take particular account of this changed role of judicial experts and interpreters in the field of justice. It is necessary to ensure that the most competent and best-qualified experts and interpreters are available for the service at judicial level. An important step has already been taken with the Novelle 1994 on the Law on Fees. In this context, we have also given the necessary equipment for remedying the main criticisms of the judiciary today. However, I will also take the suggestions made in today's debates to give rise to increased training opportunities. Furthermore, the review of the legal standards created at that time has also become a fixed part of the periodic revision programme. A further step in the aim of recruiting best-qualified experts in the courts is to ensure that this innovation is carried out, and I would like to point out two main innovations: On the one hand, the selection procedure applied to the listings for the inclusion of experts and interpreters is refined by extending the personal registration requirements and adding the registration procedure to an exact legal regime, with the addition of a technical commission. On the other hand, this amendment makes continuous monitoring of the quality of experts and interpreters more efficient by introducing a periodic review of registration requirements by the list-leading President. However, I would ask you to understand that we have to take account of the resources of the judicial administration in relation to the period of review that has been adopted, in order to address the amendment request, and of the measures concerning the already registered experts – at least there are about 10,000 judicially sworn experts. Finally, I would like to stress that the amendment also creates the necessary legal conditions for the conversion of expert and interpreter lists to computer. The aim is to provide the courts with a modern tool to ensure the rapid and efficient detection of the required expert or interpreter better than before, thus also contributing to the acceleration of the judicial procedures. This is another step in the efforts to make the best possible use of modern information technology for the court. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14481	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14505	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can agree with the statements made by the Federal Minister. I believe that it is not only an increasing importance for judicial administration that the experts who have been sworn to the court, but also an important role for them, because of the Austrian legal situation, that there is no doubt that it is far beyond that. This is why I would like to briefly outline two very substantial improvements to be decided on today. First point: I believe that quality assurance and continuous quality control in relation to the experts are an essential advantage. This new law will ensure that first every five years and subsequently every ten years an examination of the expertise of the experts will take place. At the same time, we delete the previous regulation, so to speak, that a lifelong entry could be made into the expert list. Federal Minister! I am pleased that, in addition to the legal provisions that we will adopt today, you will also be offering training measures to ensure quality control and quality assurance. The second major improvement in this innovation is that we also take into account the need for consumer protection, namely the introduction of liability insurance obligations to protect people from harm when false expert opinions occur. I think this is a very important improvement, as has been said, for consumer protection reasons. Federal Minister! I would like to make a comment on the law on fees, even if it is not directly related to this novel, because you have cut it short: It is a problem which in practice always exists, namely that someone is denied the possibility of legal access, because this is associated with very high costs. There are legal instruments in which decision-making is no longer possible without the help of experts. In view of that, I ask you to look at the fees guidelines. It is, as has been said, very difficult for many people to achieve their right due to the risk of the process and the high cost of experts. Finally, I should like to say that I share the view of most of my previous speakers: With this innovation there are substantial improvements in the field of judicially sworn experts, and therefore I and my group can gladly agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14545	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14567	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already discussed in detail the essential areas of this change of law. The assurance of the quality of the experts and interpreters should be guaranteed to an even higher degree. I would like to stress once again the sensitive nature of the issue, and that is why judicial certification should be seen as a clear task for the experts to carry out their activities even better and more conscientiously. A certified expert needs great professional experience, especially in the field in which he is used as an expert. It is therefore very beneficial for each expert to continue to be active in the relevant field. Because in our fast times, the conditions are changing very quickly. The current state of knowledge is essential for the value of an opinion. In addition, the expert must be able to operate without burden from external constraints. The moral and ethics requirements are also high accordingly. Personally, I have little experience with court auditors, but at community level I am confronted with expert advice. In concrete terms, there was a case in which there were two different opinions for one and the same building. One expert estimated its value with 1 million schilling, the other with 4 million schilling. Such a thing can, of course, lead to major problems, and it can cause enormous damage. That is why, as my previous speaker has already mentioned, it is also very reassuring for me that every expert now has an insurance to cover any consequential damage. It now has to make a liability insurance of at least 5.6 million schilling before registration with an Austrian insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This new law brings more quality and more security. That is why I too would of course like to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14603	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. A conclusion by the rapporteur does not take place. We are now entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall first vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1384 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report 1416 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Hofmann and Mr Comrades submitted an additional and amending proposal. I am therefore going to vote on the above-mentioned proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of new literature in Z. 4 § 2 lit. a refers, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have received a number of comments. Mr Hofmann and Mr Comrades tabled an amendment which refers to paragraphs 8, 9, 20 and 21 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign to this effect. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall therefore be voting on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Government paper, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report 1416 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This too is the case with the vote. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the draft law at third reading an appropriate sign. – This too is the case with the vote. I notice: The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Before calling for the next item on the agenda, I should like to point out that we are probably now voting in relatively short order. 12. Point Government template: Agreements between the Member States of the European Communities on the simplification and modernisation of procedures for the transmission of requests for extradition and declarations by the Republic of Austria (1204 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14690	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. A preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. The first mention is made by Mrs Konrad. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14718	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The intention of this Agreement on the simplification and modernisation of the procedures for the transmission of extradition requests, which is now before the Constitution, is primarily to speed up the necessary formalities in the course of extradition processes between the EU Member States. The signing of the agreement, which other EU countries signed some time ago, will now also include Austria in the exchange of extradition documents and accompanying documents by fax, i.e. almost with the most modern or almost most modern means. This acceleration is primarily carried out in the interest of the authorities so that they can complete the cases more quickly. This is also happening in the interests of all parties involved, because formal delays rarely have a positive impact on procedures. In times of increasing international networking, measures aimed at promoting and supporting the clarity and transparency of operations are urgently needed. The problem, which has repeatedly been complained of, that procedures which extend beyond the borders of a country can at least be reduced at the technical level. It is necessary and indispensable to define clearly defined control mechanisms which prevent the misuse of technical possibilities as far as possible. In the present case, this means in concrete terms that the agreement provides for the mandatory installation of coding devices to ensure confidentiality of transmission. These are, by the way, the only costs involved in this context. At the same time, a central authority responsible for the transmission and receipt of extradition requests must be designated. In Austria, this will be useful for the Federal Ministry of Justice. In the interests of all interested parties, that passage of the Agreement is provided for in the case of the challenge. If the documents are challenged by the requested State, its competent central authority may request the original documents or certified copies by diplomatic or other agreed means. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of three proposals for decision-making are available today, all of which deal with the acceleration of judicial procedures. From the point of view of my group, all three of the things I have said about the agreement on simplifying and modernising the procedure for sending extradition applications, namely that a controllable, regulated acceleration is useful, because it also contributes to the fact that procedures do not, so to speak, remain in bureaucratic matters and create superfluous stocks and formal loads which would be detrimental to correct and humane handling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14754	Mr Dr. Ofner is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14775	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Justice brings a private economic note to an area of its work: It does not really make use of the last development, or actually the last, but rather a relatively young development of the technology, namely the use of the fax equipment, in the delivery process. – So short is the succus of the event to wrap around, and so pleased he is. This fact, namely the consideration of the state-of-the-art technology and the proximity to processes in the private sector, is so gratifying that a short word message, as you experience it today, appears appropriate. – The liberals will agree to this pleasant step.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14803	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask the honourable Members to take their respective place to this end. The purpose of the vote is to approve the State Treaty and the Declarations of the Republic of Austria in 1204 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is the case with voice clarity. The consent is therefore granted. We are therefore still voting on the fact that the versions of the Agreement in Danish, English, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish are in accordance with Article 49. 2 The Federal Constitutional Act must be made known by the fact that they are open to public consultation at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent has been given unanimously. 13. Point Government template: Convention between the Member States of the European Communities on the prohibition of double prosecution and declarations by the Republic of Austria (1205 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14855	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. A preliminary work had been suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mag, the only speaker to have spoken, has been Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14882	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The meeting of the National Council, which took place in December 1996, discussed Austria's accession to the Schengen Implementing Convention in detail here in the House. Wide area included the fight against organised crime. It has been pointed out that in this context not only the safeguarding of the EU's external borders plays a central role, but also the so-called veiling of the fight against organised crime within the EU's borders. Fears that criminals could escape persecution and punishment by means of skillful deviation from one country to another, were conjured up by one and scattered again by the other. On one point, however, the parliamentarians here in the House agreed, namely that a criminal in the EU should not have the possibility of withdrawing from punishment. Criminals must be able to be prosecuted everywhere in the EU, and they must pay their fines appropriately once they have been sentenced. - So far, so good. What did not come up at the time of the debate, or what went down a little, are Articles 54 to 58 of the Schengen Convention, in which it is explicitly stated that no one may be punished twice for the same crime or for one and the same offence. What appears to be quite natural within a state territory is not so obvious between the states because of the various legal and legislative situations. This ban on double punishment, originally laid down in the Schengen Convention in 1985, was reaffirmed in 1987 in a separate agreement between the Member States of the European Union with almost identical rules. This agreement has not yet been ratified by Austria, and I therefore believe that it is a good gesture if we ratify it today, since we now have, among other things, the EU Presidency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] High house! I would like to talk briefly about one of the most essential legal principles of the Convention at all. This agreement, which is now before us as a government template and whose ratification is to be decided today, is based on the principle of law "nee bis in idem". This means that a person may not be sentenced and punished twice for the same crime. In my opinion, the ban on double punishment brings a little more legal certainty to the State community. This bill takes into account the fact that in the individual countries there are different dimensions of punishment for the same crime, and also the question of whether, in the event of a conviction, the penalty has already been executed, is being executed or can no longer be executed. In Article 2 of this Convention, Austria states that in certain cases relating to security or other essential Austrian interests, such as treason, espionage or the execution of war materials by the State territory, it is not bound by the prohibition of double punishment. It is very important to ensure the principle of "nee bis in idem" that those States which accede to the agreement establish a consultation mechanism between the competent authorities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to agree to this proposal, especially since there is no change in Austrian legal understanding. This is a, if only small, but important and essential step towards a more uniform European legal area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e14941	There is no further word message to this effect. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. The purpose of the vote is to approve the State Treaty and the Declarations of the Republic of Austria in 1205 of the Supplements. If you wish to give your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – I notice: The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall therefore vote on the fact that the versions of the Convention in Danish, English, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish, in accordance with Article 49(l) of the Treaty. 2 The Federal Constitutional Act must be made known in so far as they require public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you also want to agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – The consent is also granted unanimously. Accepted. 14. Point Government template: Documents of the World Postal Association (Seoul 1994), namely: (a) Fifth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Association; (b) General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Association, (c) the World Postal Treaty and the Final Protocol; (d) postal parcel agreements, including the final protocol; (e) post-order agreements; (f) post-check agreement, (g) Post-Admission Agreements (1358 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15045	We shall now proceed to item 14 of the agenda. A preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. The first speech is by Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15072	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template is the legal basis for all foreign postal services. The documents of the World Postal Association, which are treated as a State Contract-like Document, regulate the postal service between 189 Member States and form, as has been said, the legal basis for the functioning of the World Postal Association, which constitutes a special organisation of the UN. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendments made by this amendment relate both to the field of world postal, postal parcel, postal order, postal check and postage agreement. In addition to substantial editorial changes, the workings of the association are more focused on principles and priorities. For example, the principle is that fees should be fixed only more in accordance with the costs of the service provided and that the practice so far to be made subject to derogations can no longer be exercised by the partner countries; for these derogations are abolished, and therefore limits agreed can no longer be exceeded in order to compensate for any amount of coverage resulting from the loss of operations. Furthermore, there is a redefinition of the categories in the field of mail, the flight post, as well as the mass shipments. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of these innovations and the changes contained in these documents is to achieve overall greater harmonisation of standards and rules in worldwide postal services in order to improve global communications. The Socialists will agree to this scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15109	Mr Kurzbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It is the provisional last word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15130	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The present government paper deals with the documents of the World Postal Association, and in principle with legislative amendments, but also with additional legislation, which require the approval of the National Council. These arrangements include a number of agreements, such as the 5. Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Association. Articles 2, 3 and 4 of this Additional Protocol take into account the changed communication environment and for this purpose two new associations are created, first of the Board of Directors, second of the Postal Board. The Board of Directors shall consist of the Presidents and another 40 members. It is particularly important for the geographical distribution. The Management Board shall have the following powers: Monitoring the work of the association in the time between the congresses and the post-policy of the members, further the matter of postal development assistance, the examination of the accounting and financial activities of the association, the monitoring of the activities of the international office, the establishment of the decision-making principles for the Postal Works Council in matters of fees and remuneration. The Post Office Council is also composed of 40 members. In particular, it is responsible for conducting studies of an operational, commercial, technical and economic nature, coordinating measures to improve international postal services, setting standards for technology and operation, and drawing up the strategic five-year plan before each congress. In addition, the Agreements, the General Rules of Procedure and the Final Protocol, also the World Postal Treaty, the Postal Package Agreement, the Postal Notice Agreement, the Postal Check Agreement and, finally, the Post-Accommodation Agreement are concerned. These documents of the World Postal Association form the legal basis for the international postal service. However, they also regulate the functioning of the World Postal Association, which currently belongs to 189 members. ==References== World Congress was held in the time of the 22nd World Congress. ==References== ==References====External links== At this meeting the 5th meeting was held. Additional Protocol on the Statute of the World Postal Association adopted. Austria was represented at this convention with a delegation consisting of representatives of the former post and telegraph administration, as well as the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Austrian Post Savings Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the part of our group, we will be happy to give our approval to this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15173	There is no more word message for this. That concludes the debate. We shall come to the vote, and I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the place. The purpose of this vote is to approve the State Treaty: Documents of the World Postal Organisation (Seaul 1994), i.e. (a) Fifth Additional Protocol, (b) General Rules of Procedure, c) (d) Postal parcel agreements with the Final Protocol, (e) Postal notice agreements, (f) Postal check agreements, (g) Post-post-draft agreements, in 1358 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent is unanimous. The present proposal has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote, according to which the World Postal Treaty and the Final Protocol, the Postal Package Agreement and the Final Protocol, the Postal Notice Agreement, the Postal Check Agreement and the Post-Accommodation Agreement in accordance with Article 50. 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled through the adoption of laws. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This approval is also unanimous. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Federal Government that this contract be signed in accordance with Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Act is to be made known by the fact that there is 1st in the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport, 2nd in which this subsidiary post office, 3rd in the Post und Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, Directorate General, and 4th in the Post and Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, Directorate Graz, Directorate Innsbruck, Directorate Klagenfurt, Directorate Linz and Directorate Vienna, is in charge of public inspection during the hours of office. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The consent is unanimous. The request was accepted. 15. Point First reading of motion 826/A by Mr Karl Smolle, Mr Andreas Wabl and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Basic Law on the General Rights of Citizens
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15244	I'm calling 15. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15271	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Gospod Minister! Spoštovane lady i gospodje! Mr President. High house! This week, you were able to read Austrian newspapers – in particular, I refer to the "Press" of Monday, 5. On October 6, 1998, you were able to read it on page 6 – that things are going on elsewhere in Europe too. It is about France, it is about that country, which has long been the braker in popular languages, regional cultures, it is about the country that has now decided to make changes in this regard. I mean, that's a very, very encouraging fact. It also means, above all, that for many of those who in recent years have repeatedly used France as an excuse for not being able to do anything in the European Union, because there are some very stubborn, reticent states, precisely this reason will no longer apply, for it is gratifying to report: Consideration is given to changing the Constitutional Articles, which have forced the French out of charge, in favour of the regional and minority languages. This is a very important fact that we cannot stress enough, because I see this development as the beginning of a clear and good European People's Group Protection. The fact that countries are beginning to postulate changes in their own fields and, ultimately, also in the form of legislation – in the form of a Constitutional Law, as envisaged in France – to change to the positive, in the sense of the colorfulness of Europe, in the sense of cultural diversity, can only be welcomed, I believe. In this sense, however, it is also important to ask whether we have done enough in our house – now I mean the house of Austria, but I also mean this house in which we are currently in it – for a small part of our citizens, namely the members of the peoples. I think we are dealing with a fundamental problem which I have already underlined several times: There is a very rudimentary, very limited legal or constitutional protection of the ethnic groups. Again and again, the ethnic groups have tried – whether by means of the large draft basic national law, whether by means of a number of improvements related to the school law or also in other areas – to create a continuity of the protection of groups, regardless of the fact that people's problems are always political problems, electoral problems. The ethnic groups have no great interest in keeping up with elections – be it for one side or another – so to speak, as Waxman. In Carinthia, I can really sing a song of it, where the Slovenian question is raised again and again at election times, or the elections are given as a reason for not being able to do certain things. Therefore, an attempt to create a basis in a basic constitutional standard, which defines the rights of the ethnic groups, for the fact that, if simple legal solutions are not available, it is nevertheless possible, through constitutional courts or other decisions, to weave slowly the good carpet of solid popular protection. It is certainly also an offer from the peoples towards this house. This draft, which has now been presented to you as Article 19 of the Basic Law of the State, has not only grown in my club – it was important that the Liberal Forum has fully taken this up, I also thank the Green Group for allowing us to agree on a common paper so quickly, that was very important, that is the first basis, that is once the first basic idea for a good solution – but the Article 19 template is also in line with the groups of organisations, not with all, but it is the most important organizations with the party and would actually be pleased if we were to create this legal basis. It is not about bringing new complications into the Constitution, so to speak, but it is about drawing on an existing law that is written out of the monarchy and formulating an article in it specifically. So if, on the one hand, the European dimension we have already dealt with and highlighted today is so important, it is of course all the more important that we create a good basis in parallel with that within our country. As you know, the constitutional standards that regulate this, essentially contained in two international treaties: the State Treaty of Saint-Germain and the State Treaty of Vienna of 1955 – both of them after two terrible wars, both of which, of course, had to compensate in forced situations, emergency situations, lay the foundations for the existence of Austria. These are provisions which were not, in themselves, aimed at the protection of minorities, rather than a kind of compensatory agreement, which should somehow compensate for certain foreign or neighbouring interests. That is also, if you want to, the basic problem of these two constitutional standards: that the articles in question of the Saint-Germain State Treaty and Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty have not been a priority from the need for the Austrians to do something for their groups, but that there have been political demands, demands in connection with the neighbouring countries, and one has somehow had to meet these demands and has tried to do something in the ethnic groups. That's the problem! That is to say, it is a waste of standards, created by a confusion of proposals – I would like to spare you, for example, to describe the creation of Article 7 – due to the great interests of the great powers of the time or today and due to the interests of the world. You know: Carinthia, cold war, karavan border, Tito, Communism – it all played in there. There were great new confrontations and the wish that Yugoslavia might be out of the big block and go its own line. So it was a concession policy. Therefore, Article 7 should be considered as a kind of concession article in relation to neighbouring relations and also to the global European solutions. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's dreaming! That's wishful thinking!]] I believe that it should somehow satisfy this House with concern that we are not able to create autonomous and authentic something new that comes from our own willingness to create a good people's group standard. I think that we Members should do something like that. We don't always have to let contracts go! We can suggest something reasonable ourselves! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that it would also attract Republican Austria and simply fit us to close a huge gap in our constitution. We can do this in autonomy. We don't need to take care of anyone on any protective powers, on no major powers, and we can say: So we want to protect part of our very special, also Austrian, foreign-language culture! That is how we want to enable the people concerned to participate politically! This is a very important provision which I would like to point out. As you know, there is always a great deal of discussion on the principle issue in connection with the law of the ethnic groups: Is it enough to grant human rights? Is it enough to grant individual rights, or does one need something like Community protection, protection of the group? Allow me, as someone who has many years of experience in this field, to make the following very clear: In principle, we must guarantee both types of protection. Of course, we must ensure that human rights in individuality and for the individual are enforceable, feasible, indictable by courts, thus becoming accessible to individuals, but we must also clearly see that, if we want to preserve this Europe and also our Austria as a cultural community, we must also protect the individual groups as a community. We must also allow the groups to understand themselves as political, cultural and linguistic unity, because we only speak to others. I always allow myself to bring this into a somewhat blatant form. Since I am a Carinthian, you may also understand the example of singing: One must allow one to sing solo, to sing with someone in duets, but one must also allow people to sing in the choir. The choir, however, is not made up of many soloists, but the choir makes it clear that there is an interplay of the voices. Ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal, we have the opportunity to create a whole new protection of groups, especially taking into account subsidiarity. In principle, it must be assumed that people should manage themselves, decide for themselves – this is also a very important concern for the Liberal Forum – that they should also solve the problems they themselves are able to solve. Policy has the task of defining the framework for this. That is why the Austrian ethnic groups need self-government, including for their survival. But this requires clear constitutional protection, a collective one as well as an individual, and above all the necessary support is needed. I understand, by means of support, not only financial resources, which are, of course, necessary, but also, above all, in terms of promoting, that we can create the legal framework in such a way as to enable groups to reach their rights. I think that's important. In connection with ethnic groups, we are very often faced with the question of the legitimacy of representatives of the ethnic groups. I am referring to the very simple and clear position that this question is fully justified. In other words, I do not believe that anyone who stands up as a people's group representative should also be allowed to ask the question of legitimacy. At least with a large part of the ethnic groups, I take the view that we also have to come to legitimize in the area of elections. That is to say, it is necessary to create the conditions for an election. We must be afraid of the peoples to participate in elections so that they can elect their representatives so that we can have strong partners. We have thus reached back to the foundations of our democracy: We need partnership democracy up to the last village, to the far-reaching community. We must give the citizen the feeling that he is part of democracy. The groups in Austria also want to be part of this Austrian democracy! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In the context of this, we see as quite essential the provision contained in the last paragraph of our request. It is a matter of saying this with a term of technician, of the question of the right of association, that is to say, not only because of its own personal rights, but also for the group, but also because of the others. It will be the first step that will allow groups of organisations to take the right to take care of the concerns of the groups, but also of the concerns of the individual members of the groups. It is precisely this key power that one is legally able to enforce rights not only if one is directly concerned, but also if there is the possibility that an organization, an association may act and say: I will enforce these rights for us, for you! This is important for individual rights. But it is even more important for all those rights that the group as such needs to survive. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I will be very pleased to see the discussion in the Committee. I suppose that you want to take this big step with me – from the Freedom Party to the ÖVP to the Social Democrats. The Greens are already involved in the joint request. I believe that we can take this step together. In this context, I would like to thank Mr Neisser in particular for having already put himself before the press with us when he first presented this request and also said: At least this is a fundamental right if we do not already produce the large fundamental right catalogue! I would also like to thank you for some very positive comments made by Mr Posch of the SPÖ, who has also said encouragingly. Please do not let the fearmakers and the fear-loving ones over and over again souffle, but let us take a courageous step! I feel responsible in this sense. I am now shoved in the mandate and I would like to try, in fact, to conclude these ten months in a reasonable manner. It would be a highlight of my humble political career, a beautiful, courageous, hard-to-hold article 19 of the basic state law on the general rights of citizens as a constitutional law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this sense, I ask you: Help me make a gift – not to me, but to the Austrian peoples!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15341	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15362	Mr President. High house! I can agree with my previous speaker in many ways, in many ways. Nevertheless, I have a small problem with this motion for a resolution 826/A. Karl Smolle, you said it would appeal to Republican Austria to take steps. It would be more logical, in my view, to anchor it in Republican Austria, in the federal constitution of 1920 and 1929 respectively, and not in the basic state law of 1867, in other words in the state law of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. I have no problem with many points of this request, although I believe it would be better not to anchor the details contained therein – from the regulations relating to kindergartens, from those relating to school education in the ethnic group language to those relating to the confession or the popular language in public life – in the Constitution. There the principles would be fixed, while the details – such as regarding kindergartens – which are not yet anchored would be contained in the respective federal or state laws. We propose, in the Constitution, Article 8 para. 2 of the Federal Constitution to include a State objective, which states that the Republic of Austria is advocating itself to its ethnic and cultural groups and the linguistic and cultural diversity resulting from their existence. I believe that this would be an important principle because the confession is a necessary one. I have also said this more often from this pult, I repeat it: I would also be pleased if it could still be realized in this legislative period. In this context, I would like to point out that there has been a number of improvements to the protection of the ethnic groups and the ethnic groups during the legislative period, starting with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which was ratified this year and with 1. It entered into force on February 1, 1998, up to the promotions created by the Private Radio Act, namely the possibility that the peoples – I am thinking of "Radio Korotan" and also "Radio Mora" – have to care for their culture, to care for their language. I think this is a very good thing. I would like to confirm once again, including from this point of view, that I wish to see the ratification of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. I would very much welcome it if it were lengthened – I know that this is not the general wish of the Austrian peoples, but the majority of them – that a conference of the chairmen of the Groups would be held in Austria as it did last year. I believe that an institutionalized body as a contact person for groups of peoples would therefore be very important, because it would also allow peoples' issues to be considered differently from the different viewpoints of the groups, and also because peoples' issues are not free from party and power political interests and calculations. I therefore believe that these advisory committees should be strengthened and that this body should have been strengthened. Finally, it should be said that the Federal Government's funding policy in recent years has also been a remarkable one. In the last decade, the population promotion has been increased from 4.5 to more than 50 million schilling – the bilingual schooling has not yet been included. So a lot has already happened in this context. I believe that we are on a good path. But as I said, We would rather have enshrined the guarantee of the fundamental rights of the ethnic groups in Article 8 of the Federal Constitutional Law of 1920, as amended in 1929, and not in the State Basic Law on the general rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15412	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Steindl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15433	Mr President. High house! This debate does not exist for the first time, but we have already experienced a lot of debates in this House on issues of ethnic minorities or groups of people. There are several demands in this respect. I now mention only once the demand for a state target of the national councils, which was formulated in a memorandum to the Austrian Federal Government. At the time, all the parliamentary parties gave positive signals. I also mention the 1997 Greens' request for a State objective. A first reading already took place in April 1997. At the time, our clubman Khol said in his speech that the discussions in the committee could begin. A further debate in this context was held on a framework agreement on the protection of national minorities, together with a declaration in February 1998. Mr Smolle! I therefore see this discussion very positively, because it gives us the opportunity to appreciate the achievements of the indigenous groups, who have always held up to Austria and have also contributed significantly to the culture of this country. In my opinion, your request goes far beyond the objective of the State objective. The basic law is not a matter that you change every day, but one that you really have to "knock" exactly. I believe that such a change in law could also be very controversial from a legal point of view – it is also legal – because a constitutional change could conflict with existing legal standards. State Treaty keyword: I don't think it's supposed to be a good thing. In terms of content, there are very many legal standards and regulations. I am thinking not only of the state treaty, but also of the school laws. In the case of us in the Burgenland, it is going on and it is possible that not only will it be decided, but it will also be carried out. I see some problems there too. You have, Mr Smolle, pointed out yourself when you meant: Of course, not every ethnic group says yes to this proposal! I believe that such an important change in the law should not be made over a comb – that is a problem in my opinion; that is the small difference to your opinion – that this should be discussed with real care. There are no legal norms – I experience this very often here in Parliament – when there is no more tolerance in people’s thinking and action towards each other. I say this deliberately as a country of the castle, where different languages are spoken, where cultures and religions fit in very harmoniously and we do not live side by side but by side. – I am very proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to refer to a number of examples which are very important to me in the argumentation. The minority school law for the Burgenland is, I believe, an example: Bilingual education – either Croatian or Hungarian, depending on the area of settlement, in addition to German – is guaranteed at all four stages of the schools. Even in the other areas, there is the possibility of this bilingual teaching. It is worth mentioning, especially in the case of Burgenland, that for the first time the Roma have also found consideration in the law. It is also remarkable – and I say this very proudly; and I also think it is due to the ÖVP – that we were able to establish a multilingual gymnasium in Oberwart. And it works fine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Further example: We have a modern kindergarten law in Burgenland, which regulates bilingual care, namely the care by trained bilingual kindergartens. It works – except in some communities. But there you can see where they belong politically. They are in no way part of the ÖVP-dominated communities. I would like to stress that. New is the law on the employment requirements of nurses. This shows that in Burgenland we have not only talked a lot but also acted. The last example concerns the local radio, which will soon be broadcast in Burgenland. In the "Radio Mora" the ethnic groups will be taken into account accordingly. I hope it'll be 11. November, at our National Day, go on show. I would like to stress once again: In our opinion, this is a change of consciousness and not a regulation from above by amending a constitutional law. I know why you want that. That is why they want to do so because it is indictable and because it involves various legal consequences. But in my opinion, this is not how people's policy can be pursued. The only drops of advertising that exist in relation to the Burgenland – that is what I would like to say – concerns the bilingual placeboard inscriptions. They were repeatedly demanded, most recently today by the Croatian Academic Club Vienna. There are apparently problems on the part of the SPÖ; I must say that. We have always said yes to bilingual town boards. On the other hand, there is a completely different opinion from Mr Prior of the SPÖ. But that's the very fine difference! We should therefore take a close look at this proposal at the first reading before we quickly decide on something. At the moment, I do not see any reason to change because the current legal bases are sufficient. In this context, I can quote an unwarranted witness. Quote: "The State Treaty is still the central legal source of the ethnic groups. Its position as a state-of-the-art constitutional law is not yet governed by any other law." This statement is not from a Member of the SPÖ or the ÖVP, but from a prominent representative of the Greens, namely from Teresa Stoisits. We should stay there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15526	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15548	Mr President. High house! A number of reasons were mentioned by the speakers why this bill should be accepted in further succession. A motivation has been called Colleague Smolle himself, namely, the one to give him a gift. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] There are many reasons for deciding a law here in the House, but that would be the worst motivation. I'm just saying that about completeness. But that only on the edge; now for serious! They themselves say that the fragmented constitutional law situation should be replaced by a uniform system. But that is exactly what I do not think can be achieved with this paper. This does not eliminate the fragmented constitutional situation in the problem of ethnic groups at all, because you do not make any changes to the other provisions or delete anything, but simply want to create something extra. In this context, it has already been said that constitutionally this would not be possible even with the basic law. I also believe that it is the wrong way to regulate the whole of the state law. I am pleased to hear that the SPÖ, obviously inspired by its own programme discussion, has internalized the program of the liberals and wants to set a state target in the B-VG itself in relation to the ethnic groups. That's in itself a liberal idea that's good. A confession is to be made instead of loading the Constitution even more through the back door of a change to the basic state law. But one thing I must say: What impressed me with Mr Smolle's speech is the fact that he has actually given us – and now I am also referring to today's afternoon debate – in relation to the procedure. However, I would like to ask why the Greens and the Liberals did not vote in favour of our request in the afternoon. Today, you have implicitly admitted that neighbouring countries can defuse claims – you have called them so. I wrote down the few words that read: "Requirements of the neighbouring countries that have been trodden us." This would mean that it makes sense for a neighbouring country to proceed in a clear and hard manner, even on the question of the Sudeten Germans. I'll be back to the afternoon. That's exactly our way! In your opinion, it is also an acceptable means of policy, but today you have denied your consent to it. You yourself said that contracts should not always be dejected. All right! We in Austria are already more milestones than many of our neighbouring countries. These are today, at the end of the second millennium, in a phase in which you still have to drain something – especially on these questions! We are already so far, that we have decided very many and good regulations ourselves, mostly even with the unanimity of this House – especially in the people's group question this has been very often the case – but our neighbouring countries are obviously not yet so far. Today's statements have encouraged me, in my opinion, that there is a rethinking of the Liberals or of Mr Smolle on this question. We see that this first reading has made sense, and in the Committee we will have a bit more talk about it. In this context, we do not think the way through the basic state law is the right way, not the right way, but we can and should talk about everything, perhaps in committee we have a good, well-founded idea. On the other hand, we will also call for your arguments on the subject of implantation of ethnic group rights in Austria in relation to our neighbouring countries, so that people's rights and human rights are also implanted there, even if we have to defuse them. – That was actually my speech for today’s day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15609	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15630	Mr President. High house! The first reading has at least made it clear that what we have intended to do with this is basically the problem on the table before the Committee's deliberations are discussed in detail. I can say, on behalf of my group, that we are concerned about the substance of the matter presented here in the form of an adaptation to the basic law of the State. If some believe that this provision would be better repealed under Article 8b of the basic Regulation, I can say: This will not be the springing point, but rather the philosophy and the questions of content! Because some speakers here – including Mr Steindl – have so positively described the current situation, which is partly the legal situation, and have been concerned about the State Treaty, I would like to expressly say: The Liberal Forum's own-initiative proposal explicitly refers to the State Treaty in Article 2. However, the State Treaty, which is, of course, an essential instrument for us, has a shadow side, so to speak, because without this State Treaty, there would not even be a standard of protection for the Slovenian and Croatian peoples, because it is protected by international law, in the constitutional rank. It is precisely a shame that since 1955 we have had to rely solely on this contractual commitment and have no adequate constitutional standard in national law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In that respect, it is also important to me to point out that there would be no national objective on my own. I would be pleased to see a state objective, but I would not have any objection, but I think it is not enough because it lacks normative power. However, I believe that there is a need for a constitutional provision with a normative protection effect, so that the basic rules which are then to be laid down can be examined for their consistency with regard to the constitutional standard, so that, although some of what is legally granted today, but is not constitutionally secured, is no longer subject to the arbitrary freedom of disposition of any majority in the parliaments, because it would then be subject to constitutional protection. Then, for example, we might also be able to find councillors who would not depend on the grace of the Chancellor, because only he appoints the advisory boards and no democratic participation of the groups themselves is foreseen. For the first time in this Republic, Mr Steindl, we would also have a constitutional protection not only – although I am pleased that this exists – for the Slovenians and for the Croatians, but also for the Czechs, for the Slovaks, for Hungary and also for the Roma and Sinti at the constitutional level. I think it would be worth a lot of effort to discuss this matter thoroughly in the Constitutional Committee. I would like to point out once again that the Second President of this House, Dr Neisser, on constitutional matters is not anyone, but someone to whom one should listen both because of his political experience and because of his scientific authority. I hope that the discussions in the Committee will be constructive.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15677	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Her club's remaining speaking time: 14 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15695	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar večer! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Talking about ethnic group politics makes sense not only late in the evening, but always makes sense. I am very grateful to Mr Smolle and also to my colleague Mr Wabl, who is the co-applicant, that they have made the great effort to present such a comprehensive proposal to the National Council, although I do not agree with all the aspects contained in it. I share the intention, but I believe that this is not the really optimal direction for the constitutional protection of the rights of minorities. We – Karel Smolle and I – have been in a dialogue for a long time in this regard. It is noteworthy to me that the most interesting aspect of this request is probably the possibility of an association action for representative associations of the Austrian ethnic groups, for those who have probably not yet studied it as intensively as Mr Posch and Mr Steindl. This is a possibility which is not at all foreign to the Austrian legal system. We know this, for example, from consumer protection or from labour law. This facilitates and simplifies the enforcement of minority rights in the narrowest sense, and makes them even tangible and enforceable for the individual in many cases. I also think that this is an important and important point, but I believe that minority policy and minority protection must go beyond that. A modern understanding of multilingualism and the implementation of cultural diversity should not be seen so closely. It must not be used in defensive protection provisions for groups which the majority consider to be external groups, because linguistic and cultural diversity are concerns which the majority have to address and which the majority must also express. The Greens – even before Karel Smolle became Members of Parliament during this legislative period – have made an advance in this direction in the form of an application. Mr Posch and Mr Steindl both mentioned him positively. This request was made on 20 March. In the first reading, all the speakers said that everything in it was difficult to do and that only one or other wording could be made different. But nothing is happening! And responsible for the fact that nothing has happened in this respect is – that is easy to find out – the two "K" of Parliament, Khol and Kostelka, because they block. Mr. Dr. Kostelka, you are the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, and I therefore ask you – and please do not be angry with me if I ask you, but you are the one who always wants to have a strong democratic understanding: Why are opposition requests made by all colleagues, except those of the liberals, and also in line with the intentions of politics – in particular the Greens' request and the common request of Smolle and Wabl, which can be concluded on a package – being ignored and not treated in this way? Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not all day evening, and it is not yet "evening" of this legislative period, that is why I take this evening to the occasion, Dr. Kostelka, assisted by Dr. Khol, to ask us to take this seriously, in so far as we should deal with these questions in a committee which is elected and occupied with interested Members, perhaps also under the subcommittee, especially since there is a corresponding desire from the Austrian people's group organisations that this should be done, in terms of the memorandum of the Austrian people's groups, which has been handed over to the Government and the National Council for almost a year and a half. I ask you: Go in and talk not only about minority protection, but also about doing something for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15738	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 826/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15772	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Barmüller and comrades on the establishment of an investigation committee to clarify all circumstances related to the accident at the Lassing mine and to review all Austrian mountain authorities in respect of the proper exercise of their supervisory and control obligations over the last ten years. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15837	The debate was neither decided nor required. We shall therefore immediately vote on the request for the setting up of an investigation committee. If you would like to vote for it, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-10-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00141_d7e15873	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 890/A to 908/A. Questions 4950/J to 4987/J were also raised. Finally, Question No 39/JPR by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades were brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 8. September 1998, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
