ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1455	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats. I greet you and open the 125. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 123. Meeting of 26. May has remained uncontested and is therefore considered approved. For today's meeting, MEPs Amon, Dr. Mock and Dr. Novotny have been reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1492	I was informed of a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government as follows: Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs Elisabeth Gehrerwill be represented by Federal Minister Molterer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1519	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1656	Let's go into the agenda. The item on the agenda is the report of the Committee on Budgets on the 1100 Government Template and 1100 of the Supplements: Federal Finance Act for the year 1999, including investments. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1681	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 7 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. The regulation on the inclusion of speaking time by members of the Federal Government and State Secretary is the same as on all other days when we negotiated the budget. On this proposal the National Council's plenary session is to be held, and I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? – As this is not the case, this proposal is therefore adopted. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 18: Environment Chapter 19: Youth and family
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1721	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group XIII: Environment, youth and family. I do not have a wish for reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1750	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As one who appreciates such a thing, it is simply a need to congratulate our Federal Minister for the Environment for his service from Sunday. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] He has achieved his reduction goal at the Wiener Stadtmarathon. After all, he was able to do his personal best – no calls, please! – stop by three minutes, and this is a truly huge reduction potential that he has exhausted. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] But with this, Mr Federal Minister, it has already been with the achievement of reduction targets. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You have not achieved other announced reduction targets by far and you will not reach them in the coming weeks, months and years. I would remind you of an announcement from you during the last debate on the budget on 14 November. ==References== Then you said: It was yesterday evening in Vienna with my German colleague Merkel and with my French colleague Dominique Voynet to make it clear at bilateral level that the European Union remains consistent and offensive and that we will consistently pursue the objective and commitment decided by the Environment Council, namely to achieve a minimum of 15 percent in greenhouse gases by 2010. Good. – I was then in Kyoto and I know that the result was not 15 percent, but 8 percent of the reduction target came out there. Nevertheless, there was the Austrian finding: We will reduce by 25 percent domestically. Federal Minister! So that there are no misunderstandings: I appreciate your announcement, which you certainly take seriously, also as serious, but you do not have the partners with which you can actually implement this announcement. These 25 percent will not reach you because, and this is the worst thing about not being taken seriously by those who really have to take the measures that the measures have to take. And that's not my way of expression. This has been read all over the last few weeks and months. I recall Dr. Stefan Schwarzer from the Federal Chamber of Commerce, who said this before Kyoto. He said what you want leads to a crash scenario. And the business magazine "trend" wrote, Bartenstein was too far-reaching without a home back cover. That is why he is now ignored at home, ignored by his colleagues in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Mr Bartenstein, what is it really like? How far are you in the negotiations with Farnleitner? What are the results of these negotiations? Obviously, the results are not too promising, I take a copy from you that you have already resigned if you say you expect considerable problems and a considerable amount of work. Austria's provisional reduction obligation, the starting position of Kyoto, is being re-dimensioned, you say, Federal Minister. This is an interesting formulation if you need to redimensional your announcement now. How does this redimensional look? What is the result that remains after any redimensional process? The practice underlines what I am saying here: that there will be a redimensional process, because there is actually no implementation steps, no implementation steps, for example, in promoting renewable energy. We have dealt with this issue at last. There is no satisfactory solution. Don't say you've set up a pot of 300 million schilling with Mr. Molterer. That's not enough! There is no promotion of thermal insulation and old building renovation, so that it actually makes sense. Federal Minister! They know as I do that the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act has brought a huge downturn, but the possibility of fiscal adjustment of housing renovation has been drastically reduced, although we could have made progress here in terms of CO2 reduction, which is significant as shown in the climate change report. They themselves admit that climate protection billions are being used for purposes. Here money was collected, which is used for purposes. You yourself have a study in your ministry that states that in almost all federal states this climate protection billion is used to stop budget holes. However, the comprehensive promotion of thermal insulation was a huge advantage: not only – according to the climate report – a reduction of 3.2 million tonnes per anno, but also a recovery of the economy for the smaller and medium-sized construction industry. Where are the concerted measures in the countries we need to implement? Where are the promised Article 15a contracts for the adjustment of the energy code? Federal Minister! In reality, your answer can only be loud – and that's the bad thing about your position –: I can only demand all of this, and they have to do it to others; and they don't want it as I would like it to be. – This is the sad situation in which you are: They want it, but those who could do it don't. The Minister of Transport does not take any measures that really lead to a reduction in transport. In order to say this in Vienna, the Minister of Economic Affairs will simply leave you with your demands. That's the real dilemma you're in. The same applies to another major project, and I do not want to discuss it with you again. It is the ecologisation of the tax system which is repeatedly required by all the speakers in Sunday's speeches. In the meantime, we all know – studies prove it – that the feasibility is given, that there is national scope, that is presented to us in other countries, the meaning of this stands in times of increasing unemployment, in times of increasing black work outside dispute. And what is the result? – The result is not yet visible, Mr. Federal Minister. We have not taken any concrete steps towards ecologizing the tax system. There is now an expert group that is negotiating a tax reform concept, and at some point – we do not know when, probably in 2000 – the first results are announced to the public. Mr Federal Minister, but here you are not responsible again, Mr Edlinger is responsible. I would be interested in how you have influenced the greening of the tax system so far. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And a third, very up-to-date point: For months now, yes, we have been dealing with environmental policy with the objective of achieving a CFC-free Central Europe. There have been great announcements by all the ministers that excellent resolutions have been unanimously adopted in this House. The result, Mr. Federal Minister, is absolutely depressing: In the next few days, Mochovce will go into operation, Temelin will follow soon. And climate, Schüssel, Prammer, your ministerial colleagues, have long met with it. For them, the objective is no longer to get out of the use of nuclear power, for which it means that Austria should invest in nuclear power. Now, investment in the safe use of nuclear power has been projected by Austria. A completely wrong path has been taken, Mr Federal Minister, and you have not yet spoken, although your announcements have been made in recent years quite different. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The request for freedom of movement for the amendment of the Euratom Treaty is not consistently included on the agenda. We'll be 3rd. In June 1998, when the decision on Mochovce has long been taken, we will discuss it. Three top priority areas, Minister of State: CO2 reduction, eco-tax, exit from nuclear energy – everywhere the same pattern of knitting, namely big announcements, and then nothing comes. The result has been reversed in many areas, or even, as last demonstrated by the use of nuclear power. The environmental model country of Austria, which will probably be so wonderful again now, is not really there, Minister of the Environment, but not because you do not want it, but because you cannot because your ministerial colleagues do not play it. This is the problem of Austrian environmental policy. Federal Minister! And where you would have the opportunity to actually intervene directly, for example, decommissioning the Federal Office, you also do not do what would have been really successful. You are aware of the criticism regarding environmental competition, Umweltbundesamt from the "EconomicsBlatt". They are now out of line, although public funding remains. The Federal Environment Agency will enjoy many advantages that civil engineers do not have. Here you establish a competition that may lead to problems of existence for civil engineers. This exclusion is once again at risk of jobs which have been built up in the free economy and which are at risk of being promoted without being promoted by the state. Federal Minister! This is not the one we are imagining. Let it as it is, that's better. Faith You're me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, Mr. Federal Minister, one more question: Do you wish to invite the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection before taking over the Presidency of the Council and to discuss the Presidency of the Council on environmental policy? Can you imagine that together, for example, we are discussing a work plan that you are planning to discuss together on Austrian inputs within the Presidency? If so, tell us when. We are willing to make our contribution. Federal Minister! To achieve the environmental reduction targets, I will give you a start number: Back to the start, with a lot of energy start again. – Maybe you can reach a result.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1887	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1911	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Karli Schweitzer! You've actually achieved a reduction; I don't know if it was your goal. You too were successful in sports last weekend, together with us, with the "FC National Council". You even helped us against the Germans with a goal to win and thus to win the tournament. [[Congratulations and bravado with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But: What you ordered now was a mistake. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But after all, you can try it. [[New cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] Dear Karl Schweitzer! Of course, one can try to measure successes in different ways. But I think it is important first of all to determine the parameters and the sizes serially. I can, of course, make a number of demands in the form of possible, desirable measures that can lead to the objective, and then measure the success of the one I want to put on to it. But I think that much more decisive is the result that comes out at the end of the day. And the result of the Austrian environmental policy of ÖVP Environment Ministers in the many recent years can be seen. . I know you and other opposition politicians can't hear the word "OECD Report" anymore. I know. But it says in it, with letter and seal, that the environmental situation in Austria is very good and Austria actually has significant values in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not need to list all the things in the field of water protection, in air pollution and so on, and therefore, Mr Schweitzer, it is simply a smooth mistake if you are now trying to list certain measures that have not yet been put in place, but others that have just led to this beautiful result, rather than to measure and compare the results with other countries. I think our Minister was the stormer in this case and has met in the gate. You shot it! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Environmental policy has, in recent years, been initially affected by the necessary repairs that have been carried out in recent decades. We must continue and more than ever in our Federal budget to provide funds for the restoration of old loads. This also happens in the area of landfill old loads, for example. We are now reaching a respectable size of about 760 million schilling in the budget. I think that the budgetary approach in question has now reached a scale with which we will be able to address the biggest problems in the area of waste disposal over the next few years. I believe that this too is a merit of our Environment Minister and, last but not least, of us here in Parliament, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that we have financially equipped the field of old load rehabilitation so that we can actually achieve success in this area. However, environmental policy was also characterised by many measures in the field of regulatory policy. Unfortunately, legal bans and bans, combined with a high level of control, have led to the so-called Economic Freedom Index being among those 20 industrialized countries that have the highest level of regulation. You can believe me, that's anything but my taste. [[Abg. Oillingers: You also know why this is so!]] This is anything but my taste, because I believe that environmental objectives too can be achieved differently – at least in the future. They would certainly not have been accessible and secure in the past if we had not intervened with regulatory measures, with strict measures. But I think it should be different in the future – and that is what I am on the third point. We will need to step up efforts to launch voluntary and active improvement scenarios, to create economic incentives, with smart, with good support concepts as we have in many areas. One of these areas is the settlement of water. In the wastewater sector, massive funding of the canal buildings has succeeded in massively improving the quality of the water. Now again a special tranche for next year is foreseen in the budget, and the associated high job impact is a pleasant and important side effect especially in today's employment situation. But also in the field of environmental promotion, many projects in Germany or abroad contribute to improving the situation. All of this is handled by an excellent funding rail and support facility, which was first established by our Environment Minister, but which has been converted in recent years and made a very efficient facility, which is now recognized across all parties, across all the federal states of Austria. This is also a special merit of Austrian environmental policy and of ÖVP Environment Ministers. One last thing: We have an important task in the field of environmental promotion in the near future in connection with the design of the Electricity Economic and Organisation Law. I think it is an hour's commandment to create a facility that allows and ensures that electricity from renewable energy sources is produced economically and that this electricity is also reduced. As with new technologies, this economy must contribute in the first few years to a support concept which we are currently developing together with our Minister for the Environment. I am convinced that we will succeed in helping to break through these technologies through a smart programme of support. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e1979	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2000	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to admit that I did not attend any sporting event on the weekend, that I was not involved in the FC Parliament either. I have gone into those documents that are to be discussed today, and there was also a lot to be found in this area. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, Mr Head of Parliament, it is quite true that the environmental situation in Austria is not so bad. That's true. But it is also true that we have the problem, in general, in the field of the environment and the environment, that all the reductions that are made are simply overcompensated by absolute developments. And this makes it a problem because the loads simply continue to rise to an absolute extent – though not so fast, but they rise. This is something that we already find in the National Environmental Plan, which I have brought here, so that we can see how thick and comprehensive it is, and which the government made its action maximum in July last year – no, 1996 already. The National Environmental Plan has also found its precipitation in the Labour Convention, which states that the environmental guidelines of the National Environmental Plan must be observed in the policy of the Federal Government. However, we must keep in mind that there are individual measures which simply do not conform to what has been usefully and well thought out in the National Environmental Plan. This is a reservation that this Federal Government must be allowed to take: it does not, apparently, carry out what it has already announced in the National Environmental Plan against better knowledge in the concrete legislative measures. And that's something you'll get to hear from the liberal side again and again, because we're of the opinion: If you do something like this for three years, starting from an environmental minister of the ÖVP, then you should not have invested these resources without paying attention to the result, but you should use the result. That is why it is time to carry out what is contained in the Government Convention. The ecological guidelines of the National Environmental Plan should be taken into account. If I now look at the work of the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family, I notice that, compared to other locations of one here, it is always very, very exemplary – and this becomes clear again in the case of waste management legislation in 1998 – that the cost estimates, which must be included in each law under § 14 of the Federal Budget Act, are made in an exemplary way in particular by the Ministry of the Environment. I would like those who always claim that environmental policy has nothing to do with economic thinking and the like, to take a look at it once in order to realize that perhaps even in the economic sector such an accurate assessment of the impact of legislation would be feasible. This would be exactly what you have mentioned, Mr President-in-Office, in the way that there would be no burden on the public budget or on private entrepreneurs. However, this would only be possible if we thought about it in time, in such a profound way as it happens in the Waste Management Act, which will result in costs. But otherwise, it is probably undisputed that everything that happens in the environment is business as usual. This was the case in the last budget, which was the case with the previous budget, and it seems that it does not change, because the importance of environmental policy not only in Austrian politics but also in European policy as a whole has become a lesser one. One can see this also if one follows the UBA's dispensation debate. It is striking that we do not consider the distortions of competition that Mr Schweitzer has rightly referred to. For the environmental control law, which we already have as a presentation in the house, provides that now from the Federal Environment Agency a private company, a GesmbH, becomes, it becomes the environmental protection department of the federal government. It is contained in § 6 para. 1 lit. (d) that, for the activities carried out by the UBA, at least a cost-effective fee must be required. It then follows a three-page list of all the tasks that the Federal Environment Agency can and can perform, and it is then in the Abs. 5 of § 6, that UBA is also entitled to set up subsidiaries. That is to say, it is obvious that we are seeking a status which will be an insignificant competition for private individuals in the economic field. It is not justified that there will now be a company, equipped with federal funds, equipped with all the conditions, for example, in the field of analyticals, in private competition, which only has to demand a minimum cost-effective remuneration. This means that competition against others that are much more cost-effective, namely private, is unfair. We know that there are many laboratories in our eastern neighbours, not only in the border area, which can offer services at high quality and low cost in Austria, which is good for competition, but also the problem that Austrian companies are increasingly under pressure from those measures that are being put in place in the area of additional labour costs. This is reinforced by the exclusion provided for in the Environmental Control Act. This is something which the Liberals do not think is useful, because if distributed, there must not be distortions of competition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I say that environmental policy is "business as usual", then I would just like pars pro so far to take out the CO2 reduction policy that has already been mentioned, and I would like to point out that we are still waiting for an environmental tax reform, that there have been many announcements in the field of environmental tax reform, but it has not been possible to put ourselves together in this House to date, and once again to examine all those concepts that already exist, where we have already agreed. That would be something that we could quickly implement and which would also have to be approved by the government groups. So far, it has been the government fact that did not want to allow surveys where we could make such a balance. It would be easy to sum up all those measures contained in all the concepts of environmental tax reform of the individual political groups and to say where we agree. We could then implement this. For, ladies and gentlemen, when the energy tax, the electricity tax and the natural gas tax were introduced, but in particular now the electricity tax under the Structural Adjustment Act, according to the 1996 budget adjustment, the renewable energy sources have not been excluded from this tax. It is said by many colleagues again and again by this speaker, but it is simply not done. What is against the fact that we do not abolish the electricity levy on the electricity produced by renewable energy sources? Also in the European Union's White Paper on renewable energy sources... [[Abg. Head: There is a double promotion!]] There's no double promotion. You know, Mr Head, that we can also make an exception in the framework of the European Union. It is clear from the European Union White Paper on renewable energy sources that renewable energy sources should be subject to increased feed-in tariffs, a 20% surcharge, and thus an additional amount for these feed-in tariffs, measured at the city gate, i.e. on the low-voltage network, where direct feed is made, and not at the compound level, but at the low-voltage level. This is explicitly contained in this White Paper. This is also fair, because it takes into account the benefits that renewable energy sources have. We need to get fair feed-in rates. I am therefore pleased to have heard today that there seems to be still a willingness to talk in the area of the ElWOG on the part of the government groups. However, if we do not manage to get to these fair feed-in tariffs, we will not be able to open the field of renewable energy sources as an additional field of environmental policy, but also as an additional field of income procurement for the agricultural sector – biomass, biogas – as well. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is what we demand from the Liberals, however, because it is only through fair conditions that it is possible to develop renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be appropriate to provide in the ElWOG, for example, that there can be an eco electricity market in Austria. Because what does it say about it? If individual individuals, private companies, appear and say we want to establish an eco electricity market, we want to be electricity dealers in Austria and sell only 100 percent of electricity produced from renewable energy, then this should be possible after the ElWOG. It would be good if we could get together on a round of talks in this context and establish it, because it is currently not included in the ElWOG's draft. Ladies and gentlemen! Last point: Anti-atomic policy. Mr Bartenstein has also spoken about this in recent days. But it is true that we can only solve the problem of nuclear power stations at our borders within the framework of the European Union. That is why today I say from this point of view: The seriousness of the concern expressed by the German Chancellor's climate over the last few days, but also by Mr Bartenstein, will be measured by the seriousness of the implementation of the resolution of July last year, which provides that, for example, the Euratom Treaty must be amended at European level. Only when the Federal Government gives this real priority will we really praise this environmental policy by the Liberals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2058	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2079	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased to note that my committee chairman is already there, who is obviously very good at the football game, but has shown a little less confidence in his statements on the policy of the Coalition Government's environment. However, I noted that in the previous statements of members of the opposition there was a relatively large amount of credit in comparison with previous statements, which suggests that our environmental policy cannot be so bad, Mr Minister. Mr Langthaler is still speaking, but her remarks cannot become so bad either, because Mr Langthaler, for example, spoke about a historic environmental day in the light of the Kyoto outcome, which was not the case. So we see that there is a wide range of opinions. I think another indication of the fact that our environmental policy cannot be so bad is that until the end of May, there has been no great "ozone scream" and no "ozone activism". I am also optimistic and hope that it will remain in this way. Federal Minister! I do not see a standstill, nor a step back in environmental policy at all, because Austria – I am going to get even closer to it – can do something internationally, though I would like to say – and I believe that is clear to us that the awareness of the population of environmental policy is not given such importance or that it has lost a little bit of importance, because there are other concerns, problems in the workplace and similar things. I noticed this very clearly. I was again with some colleagues at the largest European environmental fair, ENVITEC in Düsseldorf. We have had to note that the number of visitors has also fallen from about 55 000 to about 30 000 to 35 000, indicating that the interest is paralysing. This could also mean, of course, that after this trade fair was once very strong with End-of-pipe-technology, much has already happened and much of the equipment is now no longer necessary. But this is a little bit to think about. High house! I believe that we government parties in the environmental policy of recent years have successfully made a number of strategic choices and have also been able to take some important concrete measures. I still claim that we have done our homework quite well. This concerns, in particular, waste policy, the way forward to thermal disposal, to which I strongly and expressly call myself, and the determination that all landfills must comply with the last state of the art by 2004 and that then only more inert material, i.e. no more climate-related material, may be stored. However, it will still be necessary to remain here with emphasis on the ball so that there are no exceptions. This also concerns the amendment of the packaging regulation, with which we Socialists have never had a special pleasure. But there have obviously been some improvements. However, I also believe that, at the end of the licensing contracts around 2001, the opportunity for a comprehensive reform of the system we should benefit from is reflected. The water re-content policy has been carried out through three novels of the Water Law Act, as I believe, also very well, in particular by reducing the administrative burden and streamlining the administrative procedures. I am thinking of the new rules for theindirectors. This brings considerable savings in procedures. It is certainly not right for Schweitzer to say that we are not an environmental model country, because Mr Minister's colleagues did not play along. On the contrary: There are a number of Federal Ministers who have successfully also been involved in environmental policy. I am thinking, for example, of Molterer, of One and quite a bit of Farnleitner. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did One do?]] As far as running water is concerned, we are extremely successful. Of course, we have a lot to do in the field of groundwater protection, in terms of old loads, but also in terms of agricultural problems that we still have to solve. We have a new Immission Protection Act, which has certainly made progress again, with a comprehensive measuring point network for a nationwide monitoring. To book on the success page is the creation of our national parks. With the last, that is, Donau-March-Thaya-Auen, we already have five. There are still a number of things that could be put forward, such as investment in the field of the eco-funds, the water industry, which were also very active in the field of employment. I would particularly like to stress our efforts in international environmental policy, which will now have the opportunity to be further developed in the year of the Austrian Presidency. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, during this period a number of very important studies have been published, especially by the Federal Environment Agency, for example an environmental report together with the Central Statistical Office. The National Environmental Plan, already mentioned by Mr Barmüller, is certainly a very important step that has been taken in our environmental policy. There are, therefore, considerable successes that show that there has been no halt or rebound in environmental policy. Federal Minister! However, I must also note that after this analysis, environmental work was not very easy with you personally and has not at all been free of friction, and mine, including environmental policy, has suffered a little despite its success. This is particularly true of our controversial views on the exclusion of the Federal Environment Agency, where we could have found an objective discussion in the past, because I believe that the result we have now achieved after long negotiations is quite tangible if the EU gives its place, so to speak. This is also true of climate policy, where I think you have also leaned a little far out of the window, which you should still be talking about, and I still have in mind our national Toronto target. But we really need to discuss this with everyone concerned. In my view, you have failed to accelerate procedures and debureaucratise environmental protection. Your EIA bill has been thought of by the economy in particular with devastating criticism. What I am sorry about is that it is clear in discussions that your image as a interlocutor in the field of industry and the economy has, so to speak, suffered clearly. I am therefore sorry because you yourself have been environmental spokespersons of your party, an economic party, and come from the industry. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to call on you, perhaps in the future, to make cooperation with Parliament a little better, not always to surprise us with completed concepts and to discuss some before, in order to find a consensus. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] All in all, Austria's environmental policy is a fairly positive one, but with some of the drops of advertising I was talking about and the awareness that it might have been a little bit more. This increase in environmental success, Mr Federal Minister, should in future be pursued in even more intensive joint work with the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2125	Next, Mrs. Ing. Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All my previous speakers – whether directly or indirectly – have made some sense in their speeches, namely that the debates on the environment have changed in recent years in the context of the budget debate. I think that is also the case because environmental policy and the starting point in Austria and in Europe as a whole have changed somewhat. A few years ago, when the environment was perhaps a more new issue for many, it was rather so that in many cases it was quite acute scandals to begin with first repairs. A good example of this is the entire area of old-age renovation, where it was still a few years ago to show here at the budget debates, where there are really incredible deficits and therefore also real scandal cases, such as the fishing-deposit or the Berger-deponie, and which system in environmental law makes such a thing possible. In this area, in this classical area, something has naturally happened over the last five or six years – I believe that all opposition politicians will also admit that. The legal framework was created, and the emission standards were undoubtedly created, so that it could not come about ten or 15 years ago. Because it is precisely because, thank God, I say, that there can no longer be the environmental scandal of the week to this extent, some may also have given the impression, like my previous speaker, that the environment no longer has the appropriate role in the population. I don't see it like that at all. The current Mochovce example alone shows how much environmental awareness is especially important in Austria. I believe that environmental awareness in the population of Austria is still far greater than the environmental awareness of our federal government. There are already some examples that clearly explain this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My colleague Gabriela Moser will address Mochovce in detail. But of course this is a typical example of how not to make environmental policy. They have always accused us of being too ad hoc, too unplanned, so to speak, demanding fire brigade measures. But what you have told us – not you personally and alone, Mr Environment Minister, but the entire Federal Government – was the example of how it should not go and how to go into an argumentative dead end. This began with the fact that you simply didn't use a lot of time to really represent what it means when a federal government thinks it's fighting for a nuclear-free Europe, and what financial offers to neighbouring countries are necessary. There must also be no difference between nuclear power plants in Mochovce or Temelin or existing nuclear power plants such as Krško, Paks or Bohunice. In this case, to differentiate and make offers aimed at supposedly making the Mochovce nuclear power plant safer now is the wrong way. This would indicate that Austria is ultimately of the opinion that there is safe nuclear power. And so you can maneuver into a dead end. This error is obvious when there is not really a strategy and there is no long-term planning. And just long-term planning is simply essential in a modern environmental policy. It is now a question of not recognizing the environment as a one-point matter, but of recognizing that this is an interdisciplinary area, which one must discuss, that it is an area closely linked to financial policy, to economic policy, to energy policy, and that it is a matter of enriching all these individual policies according to the environment. My previous speaker, Mr Doppelmüller, said that in one case he would be very disappointed by the Minister for the Environment, namely in the case of the EIA law and the amendment presented. That is why I would like to take a brief look at it. That is a completely different opinion. In spite of all its shortcomings, I consider the EIA law to be one of the essential environmental laws we have adopted here in recent years. This is a good law to be improved. In this case, I consider the amendment proposed by the Minister for the Environment to be excellent. I am very sorry that he obviously does not find the full support of all the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, so that it is not possible to implement the draft as soon as possible, as it has been prepared by the Ministry. Mr Doppelmüller! In the last Environment Council, where, unfortunately, only one Member of the ÖVP and Member of the Kummerer of the SPÖ was present by the coalition parties, we have discussed the advantages, but also the difficulties of starting up, for all those involved, from operators to citizens' initiatives and government representatives. I very much hope, Minister, that, because of the calls and discussions by the Federal Chamber of Commerce and Industry Association, you do not withdraw from the improvements contained in this amendment, and not, as is now clearly stated in the Kyoto reduction targets, submit to industry. I come to the next subject: Federal Minister! I was really disappointed about what I had to follow in the newspaper in the last few days. You have said in Kyoto, but you have also repeatedly said that you are committed to reducing CO2 emissions and that you will remain in line with the overall greenhouse gas reduction target, namely what you have proposed in Kyoto as an Austrian representative, but also, of course, in parallel with the objectives of the national Toronto target. In my view, this is one of the objectives which I consider to be, as serious or not seriously binding. The Toronto target was never a binding goal. It was quoted in three energy reports and was repeatedly quoted in almost every statement of government. However, we have done nothing in this direction, because otherwise it could not be that CO2 emissions continue to rise or, as you say, we have a very high level of CO2 emissions, Mr Federal Minister. Unfortunately, this goal has never been taken seriously. But now it is going to be serious, and that is why, Mr Doppelmüller, I have also spoken to Kyoto about a historic result, and I remain here because what will happen if an objective is binding. This is what I think is a quantum leap in the whole of environmental policy, that objectives will finally also be binding and that there will also be penalties when the objective is not achieved. In the form in which this is to happen, everything will have to be debated in Buenos Aires this year, but I very much hope that those countries which, at first, announce large what goals they want to pursue and then fail to achieve, because they obviously do not take them seriously, will also be asked to cash out accordingly. I think it is important that environmental objectives are finally binding not only nationally, but also internationally, and that there are consequences for non-compliance. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I hope you will inform us today in your reply, what you are actually doing as an Austrian Environment Minister on 16 November. to represent in the EU Environment Council on June. I take the papers, you want to have one at the front of your reduction target. Originally we were at minus 20 percent as an offer from Austrian side. If it is essential to be one in order for you to be in favour of industry Your face can be kept, then I mean that we can agree on 19.5 here, but no number below. That's unbelievable otherwise. All those responsible for this on the part of the Federal Government make the same mistakes once again as in the case of nuclear power. One simply becomes unbelievable within Europe, but also internationally, when one speaks large before and then, when it gets serious, does nothing. I can't! One must then also stand to his word. Once a minus 20 percent international, including within the EU, has been promised, it is not possible to fall back a few months later when the pressure of industry comes – it has come this time rather later, but now it is well done – so far back from its original target. [[Abg. Head: Now stay a little serious!]] I heard from your ministry that you are commuting at a reduction target of 12 to 13 percent from Austria. I also know your argument that it is unacceptable for countries such as Portugal and Spain to receive growth rates to this extent. That's where I share your opinion: Plus 40 per cent for Portugal is unacceptable, but Austria still has to remain at its minus 20 per cent target. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] The next area, which was also referred to by Mr Doppelmüller, meant that there was no cry from God, namely on ozone and ozone policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that you have adopted a law here which, on the one hand, should have significantly reduced nitrogen oxide emissions by the end of 1996, and on the other hand, the volatile hydrocarbons. I would like to inform you that these reduction targets have not been achieved, not by the end of 1996, nor will they be achieved at the next stage, which will be achieved shortly after the year 2000. In this case, it is the same as the Toronto target, although it is even in a law this time, but it is only a goal within which Austria would be obliged to reduce these emissions. Unfortunately, however, it is not contained in this law, which actually happens if Austria does not achieve this objective. Mr Umweltminister! We didn't reach it. It is now true that this problem does not directly affect the environment and does not concern people because they get sick, but it is something that, of course, is a major problem in the long term, both in the environmental and in the health field, if we do not manage to finally reduce transport and associated nitrogen oxides, and if it is not possible to link environmental and transport policies far more closely than has been the case so far. Mr Environment Minister, if you want to bring together the EU Presidency for Environment and Transport, you must finally take more and more consistent steps in the area where you are originally responsible, namely the Ozone Act, in order to achieve the reduction targets laid down in the law, because otherwise, It is once again unacceptable if it is now announced that a priority of the EU Presidency by the Minister for the Environment will be the subject of the environment and transport. Mr Umweltminister! Look You are applying the Ozone Act, because it should be a warm summer in Austria this year, certainly coming to exceed the ozone limit values. It is a fact that we have not achieved the goals we set ourselves and that you, too, have obviously not achieved your self-esteemed goal in some areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another area was mentioned briefly, namely the Federal Environment Agency. The planned allocation has already been discussed here. To date, no one has convinced me that the distribution of the Federal Environment Agency is a reasonable step. I do not see that this will bring anything on the budget either. This can also be read in the various documents on this subject. Only two days ago the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, spoke in a longer interview in the 'Mitagsjournal' that the Federal Government had not proved to be appropriate in various areas. In particular, he has addressed the whole ASFINAG area, but also other areas. He did not explicitly mention the Federal Environment Agency, but of course his statements can also be dealt with seamlessly in this area. I do not understand why we are in danger of creating two areas of problem through this dissemination. The first problem, which is the most significant for me, is that the people who work there really have an incompatibility: on the one hand, to create documents on behalf of the Authority, to examine and on the other hand, to be introduced as contractors to companies in order to acquire projects and orders. In my view, this is a situation that will lead to incompatibility in the medium and long term. I do not think it is appropriate to bring this danger into the house. The second area has already been mentioned by Mr Schweitzer and Mr Barmüller. Of course, this new situation, in which the Federal Environment Agency should look for contracts on the free market – that is obviously the reason for this exclusion – would be a great competition against all other civil engineering offices, with a significant competitive advantage, because there is nothing at all to make up for. I mean, these are both problem areas that could be saved. In particular, this breakdown does not do anything budgetaryly. So the argument is that the coat would save more privately less state public money, so to speak, into emptiness. I know that we will soon be discussing this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You decide on this exclusion, but I should already like to say today that the Green Group is still opposed to this exclusion and the firm conviction that the Federal Environment Agency should continue to work in the form it is now working on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has been mentioned briefly, this is waste policy. The packaging regulation has also been mentioned. Look If we talk about whether something has been done in the area of waste prevention in Austria. Indeed, market surveys are always being conducted by industry, and it is a fact that there is a significant increase in plastic packaging in particular. While only a few years ago, two years ago, the proportion of plastic bottles in lemonades and mineral water was only 2%, this proportion is now 27 percent. In just two years, therefore, the proportion of plastic bottles in the area of beverage packaging has increased significantly. I think it is an absolute mistake, ecologically, if you simply break down well-functioning multi-way links and the associated systems. This leads, of course, to the production of more waste and, inter alia, to the destruction of more raw materials. This has nothing to do with waste prevention or a sustainable environmental policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to address the important area of ecologizing the tax system. Federal Minister! I would definitely expect you, as Minister for the Environment, to focus on this area within the framework of the EU Presidency. The greening of the tax system is one of the most important milestones of a future environmental policy! Tomorrow, the Greens in the House will present their proposal, which is a well thought-out approach. I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP that former Vice-Chairman Riegler will also take part in this presentation and will be present. This has already recognized years ago that it would be necessary to finally do something about it in Austria too. We should finally stop discussing that this is only possible throughout Europe. There is currently no harmonisation of tax law within Europe. That is why there is enough room for a national eco tax. I really would ask you not to continue to push this issue to the long-term stage. I very much hope that before the 2000 budget a tax reform will be decided, which will finally include an ecologicalisation of the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2227	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to the President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that I – possibly at the next meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on 3 May. June – of course, will be willing to provide information and discuss the environmental protection projects during the Austrian EU Presidency. I am also of the opinion that this is useful from the moment on, because the contours have now been solidified insofar as we already know in some way what the English Presidency will do. Therefore, our tasks can be defined more closely than they would have been a few months ago. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to comment on a subject, namely nuclear policy, in a second speech, because it has been announced that subsequent speakers will continue to address it. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I would now like to deal with at least one part of the issues that have so far been in the foreground of your remarks. First of all, a few comments on the first topic, namely climate protection and Kyoto. Mr Schweitzer. You have criticised in your remarks that I have adopted the Toronto target in the last few days and would represent a policy that is different from what it was a few months ago. – That’s not true! I have not agreed to the Toronto target. On the contrary: I am in the same position as the ladies and gentlemen of the House on this national commitment, which has been taken note of in the energy reports of the years 1990, 1993 and 1996 – the 1996 energy report has still been valid – by the House. It is represented in several resolutions of the National Council. However, with regard to the credibility that Mrs Langthaler has called into question, I should like to say that: Other countries also have national self-obligations – for example Germany, Denmark, but also England. However, other EU countries, as well as Austria, believe that the Kyoto target within the EU – the Burden-sharing that has already become famous – can and should be quite different between these national commitments on the one hand and the commitments now to be negotiated under international law. In this sense, Mrs Langthaler, I have formulated: From an Austrian point of view, our EU reduction target should be one. Why? – Together with Finland and the Netherlands, Austria is one of those three countries that have the biggest difference between the status quo and the target we have driven to Kyoto, which is a minus 25% reduction. If Kyoto had assumed a commitment to the industrialized countries of minus 15 percent, the situation would of course be different. Then, I think, we would be in common with the view that Austria is also in the framework of the European Union for this commitment target of minus 25 per cent for 2010. But that's not the case. If the European Union is going to Kyoto with the target of minus 15 per cent and with a result of minus 8 per cent, this should also be reflected in our share of the EU commitment target for the EU's last distribution. Why? – This is also the question of fairness and justice, the question of what quota the other countries are reducing. It is also to be registered that the Federal Republic of Germany has gone to Kyoto very well with the target of minus 25 per cent, but can already take 10 per cent and more of reduction automatically by the reunification. It is about the fact that a country that is quite comparable with Austria, such as France, namely, with regard to CO2 emissions per capita, not with regard to nuclear power, which is still a country whose environmental policy is made by a green Minister of the Environment, whom I very much appreciate, with a quota of plus/minus 0 per cent far less than it should do. It is also a question of having to look into the future, of course. Developing countries such as China and India will not be able to talk about stabilising targets in a few years, while countries like Portugal have now offered not less than 40 percent, but – according to the recent proposal of the English Presidency – plus 24 percent. This will not be easy because there are great differences between Portugal and China in terms of economic development and prosperity. That's exactly what it's going to be about in the next few days. At the Council meetings on the evening of the 15th and then on 16th and 17th. In June, decisions on this Burden-sharing must be taken, especially because the European Union is urgently faced with the design of a common policy and flexible mechanisms and measures to achieve these objectives. Not everything, just a certain part is nationally feasible. A good part of the reduction targets must be achieved through EU coordinated and common measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Doppelmüller! I wonder how I should evaluate your interpretations in such a way that I would have leaned too far out of the window. The Federal Government has taken note of this so-called out-of-the-window loan, because the minus 25 percent we brought into the negotiation process before Kyoto were, of course, agreed in the government. Secondly, Mr Doppelmüller: All three countries that had a national commitment at the time, namely the Toronto target – that is Austria, Germany and Denmark; the minus 20 percent per 2005 correspond exactly to the minus 25 percent per 2010 – have brought this into the EU process. All three, not just Austria! What argument should I have put forward for Austria in this Kyoto preparatory process? How much less did you think I should have leaned out of the window, honourable Member? This is not understandable to me, because I have raised a question today. At least in your speech you also said that the Toronto target should continue to be respected. I believe that the variety of resolutions and resolutions contained in the energy reports, which are not known to be administered and drawn up by the environment, are not only binding on the government, but also on the Members of the House. – So much about Kyoto, so much about climate protection. Let me also briefly comment on the statements and debates on the subject of Umweltbundesamt. It has happened to the Council of Ministers on the Environment Control Act of these days, exactly this week. There are concerns that there may be competitive disadvantages with regard to civil technicians and similar professional groups. I take these concerns seriously. All I ask is to resist the temptation to double-bought arguments, namely, to claim, on the one hand, that the Federal Environment Agency must be equipped with appropriate financial resources in order to ensure its survival and prosperity – and on the other hand, to say that it is precisely these measures, which the Federal Environment Agency provides with appropriate budget resources, that it can compete on the market, which in turn brings competitive disadvantages to third parties, for private. This poses the danger of a certain doubling, which I would like to point out here. However, I would like to refer to the wording in § 6 of the Environmental Control Act. It should be clearly stated that a minimum cost-effective fee for the relevant services must be required and paid to third parties. It is in § 8 para. 6 also states clearly that there may be no cross-subsidisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I know, paper, maybe also such a thing, on which laws are written, is patient. But I agree with you that, as part of my ownership function, I too will pay a corresponding attention to the fact that, when the Federal Environment Agency enters the market economy and in its acquisition of additional tasks, it is not being played at, for example, dumping prices of false competition. But I do not have the impression that this is intended. I should like to thank you, Mr President, for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2339	Thank you, Minister of State. Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2364	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After 13 months of marathoning, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, you went through the goal again, really with a performance that can be seen: 12.6 billion Schilling tax relief for our families! 6 000 S per child per year, 500 S per child per month, in addition more than 90 percent of families from the third child 400 S per month. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mother: When?]] The negative tax will be increased from 2 000 S to 5 000 S from 1999 onwards and paid out in cash. This is a tax reform that truly deserves its name. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] But money alone is not the problem for families. Three fields are to be managed: the one of the economy, the one of education and that of childcare. Because how does the economy get their best employees? From intact families! There, forces can be gathered, there are training socialization, team skills and other social skills. We have five operating agreements throughout Austria and 600 excellent companies. However, the economy and family could draw even more mutual benefits from each other. I would like to address this field more intensively and ask the Social Democratic Party for such a discussion for quality jobs, jobs in our households. A work place on a tape cannot be compared to a job in a family. There you can cook coffee whenever you want, you can divide your work and are not under pressure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor can we accurately estimate the number of unemployed, because more and more women are pushing on the labour market due to the situation in the labour market and life. Nevertheless, 87 percent of women are willing to give up temporary career opportunities and careers in order to be able to stay with the child themselves in the infancy phase. It is best work they do, and it is the most necessary work for the next generations. In the course of the re-evaluation of the work, it is also necessary to see this work in a different light and acknowledge pensionable reasons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second field concerns education, as mentioned at the outset. 87% of those seeking employment do not have a school degree. 18 per cent of unemployed men and 35 per cent of unemployed women are without a job. Practical knowledge and education is the only way to combat unemployment. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We therefore need life-long learning in the workplace and private life. Once again I plead for this often mentioned family culture and parent school. All management trainers speak of the magical triangle, which consists of professional competence, economic competence and social competence. The ARGE Preventive Psychology under Dr. Anneliese Fuchs, the Family Federation and the Family Minister support quality assurance at the interpersonal level. We offer relevant projects to the interested schools – similar to those of sex education – that are talking and learning from each other. These are far too little known. We want to make young people strong, to strengthen their self-confidence, to develop their personality, to train communication skills, to train dispute culture and to make it easier for them to join the partnership. Now to the third field, babysitting. We have continued 600 million schillings in the double pack, i.e. 1.2 billion schillings, now also for the next year. This must continue to help us to improve the supply of extremely quality childcare. Children with a numerical concept of "one, two, all" must not be accommodated in a group of children, for example, seven children. Because this would mean permanent state of fear and stress for them, which can be chemically demonstrated in urine, blood and saliva. Lifelong trauma is the result! I also call for the social and pension rights of the day's mothers and fathers through this money. We need these small family-like care units. Private institutions such as the Austrian Relief Agency, the Family Association and the Catholic Family Association do what they can, but have to be financially supported. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last issue I would like to highlight concerns the debate on the anchoring of marriage and family in the Constitution. A first step must be at least equality between marriage and family with other forms of life. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did I understand this correctly: Do you want equality between marriage and other forms of life?]] However, a preference for marriage and family would be necessary if the spouses and family members were to take on far-reaching obligations for each other due to their personal understanding as well as social expectations and the associated benefits were also provided. Thus, my understanding of marriage is a primary government interest, not just the Christian view mentioned above, but only the sacramentality of marriage. Marriage has been established as a contract through personal declaration of will and goes far beyond the status of a private matter when we consider the services provided. Education, socialisation, care for children, elderly and sick, mutual assistance, preventive effect through family education and education – these services relieve state institutions. In the event of a failure, it becomes clear to whom the high social and financial costs of follow-up will be borne, namely to the general public. The anchoring of marriage and family in the federal constitution offered a reasonable measure of justice in respect of their family justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2454	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Haller. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2478	Mr President. Mr. Family Minister! I hope you will listen to me. High house! In a 1992 study on the efficiency of Austrian family policy, Alois Guger said: "Austria's family policy offers a paradoxical picture: Family support is higher in Austria than in most industrialized countries. Nevertheless, the birth rate is low, and the income surveys of the microcensus show that the risk of poverty is increasing rapidly with the number of children in Austria." – Minister of State! That was 1992. Since then, you and your predecessors as a family minister have failed to reverse this trend. On the contrary: As we know, he's gotten even stronger. There are six years in between, and a number of things have happened in the area of Austrian family policy: the recognition of the 1991 VfGH on family taxation, the repair by the so-called first family package in 1993, but then the two savings packages, which have shown a deterioration in spending on the families of 20 percent – this is demonstrated by your 1998 budget. And in the meantime, Mr Federal Minister, experts have found that these two savings packages – already the announcement of the first savings package – were responsible for the fact that we are now experiencing an even more blatant drop in birth. With the recognition of the 1997 VfGH, the new repair measures, which are at least partially anchored in the 1999 budget, have resulted. I have to write to you, Mr Family Minister, and also to my previous speaker, another one in the main book: First of all, this repair has not taken place voluntarily, second, it gives back the Austrian families far less than they had been denied first, which is proven by the knowledge, and thirdly, this repair is also not in conformity with this new repair. If I recall the discussions that took place in June 1992 on the first family package here in this House – the family minister of then, Mrs Feldbrill-Zankel, has already withdrawn from politics, but for example the debates by Mrs Rosemarie Bauer – then I must say that today's debate reminds me of the then. Rosemarie Bauer, you said at the time that this family package for the ÖVP was really proof that it had succeeded in bringing about the change in family policy. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Of course!]] Well, that's just not right. The facts, the budgets prove something quite different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] According to experts, the new family package will also contribute little to the fight against poverty in the area of families. I would like to quote Mr. Johannes Kübeck of the "Small Newspaper", who wrote two excellent articles on family policy and who asked family politicians not to be shy about pursuing consistent family policy. In the "Small Newspaper" Mr. Johannes Kübeck reckoned that children are a good business for the state – not for the parents – because only in wage tax, VAT, pension contributions, an average earner – I quote Mr. Kübeck – in his active life the "smallness" of 5 million schilling to the state funds. In return, depending on the course of training of the person concerned, between 1.5 and 2.7 million schillings on children's money, on school costs, on health care. It should therefore be in the interests of the State to make efficient family policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Family Minister! So Mr. Johannes Kübeck finds that children are a business for the state. But not only the journalists are of this opinion. I don't know if you know the Fifth German Family Report. It is a well-known fact that both the family tax system in Germany and the family tax compensation system are very similar to the model in Austria. [[Abg. Oillinger: And doesn't work either!]] This Fifth German Family Report also deals with family taxation on page 289. The following is hereby declared: "A balance between members of society with children and children without children can only be made meaningfully if these transfers make a relative improvement of the families above the minimum family existence compared to childless members." And then we're going to go on: "Transfers to families that serve to safeguard the minimum of existence are therefore not part of a family tax compensation, but rather of social benefits." Thus, the comment of the President of the German Federal Constitutional Court, Roman Herzog, is to be understood, which said in relation to the constitutional court judgments mentioned above: "There are many objective viewers who assume that the family burden balance has not been in line with its functions for decades." – This applies to Germany, but the parallels in Austria are available. He goes on to say: "I do not have to judge this, but add that the Federal Constitutional Court of course can only enforce the lower limits of the just acceptable. The fact that a system is still constitutional does not yet mean that it is sufficient or even correct." The Austrian rule you recently adopted here with the votes of the two government parties is clearly not even "adequately or constitutionally" right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It continues in this Fifth German Family Report. In the next chapter, it is reported how much the family burden compensation actually relieves the families. There is a macroeconomic calculation, which, in addition to the definitive costs of children, also counts the cost of care. This looks like this in our neighboring state: 74 percent of the total expenditure, i.e. care and care expenditure, is borne by the families, only 24 percent by the public authorities and 2 percent by the welfare associations. Mr. Family Minister! They know that it has always been a concern of the liberals to anchor this burden of care and care more closely in the balance of family expenses. He is responsible for this. That is why we have been forcing and demanding for years the child care check, which should finally bring a bill of family childcare. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This babysitting check, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the Reich, must not be a case of women, as Mr Andreas Kresbach says in a "press" guest comment. He could then become a social innovation if we finally stop seeing family policies in Austria only from an ideological point of view, if we stop with mutual suspicions and if we start to view child care checks as normal transfers, like others. [[Abg. Wabl: From what point of view should one look at it?]] We are not alone with this request, Mr Wabl. You will certainly know that a recent CDU meeting has taken place in Saxony. There are two models presented, but they have a different name from that of us. They refer to themselves as "educational content", and there are two variations. But that is exactly what we expect from the child care check in the basics. Minister! I expect the outcome of the study with impatience. You first announced our results before the summer, then again after the summer. But you also know that we are still demanding a valorization of the family allowance that we want to have an increase in the mother-child-pass bonus. We will also be making a corresponding request today. Mr. Family Minister! I have to blame you for this: You didn't keep your promises. They wanted to implement a new regulation of the now deleted home travel aid. This has been postponed to the years 2000 and 2001. A new regulation of the Family Hard Compensation Fund will only take place sometime. The abolition of self-employment has sacrificed you a cow trade with the countries. I don't want to talk about the school books at all: The Husch-Puff solution you once made is simply prolonged. Mr. Family Minister! Again my appeal, also in the sense of journalist Kübeck: It is really high time, and it would be really important for Austria and for Austria's families to finally approach family policy with more reason and logic and let less ideology flow in. Mr. Family Minister! If you intend, you will also have the support of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2577	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2598	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs. Haller! In your speech, of course, there would be quantities to be noted, quantities to answer and some to object. [[Abg. Haller: There is no objection, only ideological!]] For example, Alois Guger said in 1993: In 1993 a family package and a tax reform became effective, which brought a lot to families. They have complained that the birth rate has nevertheless remained low, yes, on the contrary it has even fallen. Mrs Haller, this is true, but the reason for this is not that the Austrian families are not given enough financial resources, but that the framework conditions, the family structures, are still not running away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who has been responsible for the framework conditions for 30 years? You're in the government!]] That is why birth rates do not rise. If you go to the Scandinavian countries or to France and look at the basics, you will see that there are the family structures that fit easily and that the birth figures are high. In a country like Italy, where the word "mama" is still almost a sanctification, birth rates are even lower than in Austria, because the conditions do not fit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have spoken of the care and care effort to be paid in the form of, we call it by name, education allowance – they say "child care check"; it is an education fee –. I must tell you that the Socialist Group will not accept this adventure, as the draft for a babysitting check provides. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Motter! They have asked when the reform of family support will become effective. It will become effective with 1999 – at a first stage at half the price. The promotion of children is increased by 250 S. Mrs. Haller! They say that little will be done to combat poverty. [[Abg. Haller: I didn't say that, but professionals and journalists!]] The social component has been greatly strengthened in family support: The lower-income multiple-child families receive a bonus of 200 S and from 2000 onwards one from 400 S, and the negative tax is raised from 2,000 to 5,000 S. We Socialists have always stressed that family policy cannot function exclusively through money transfers and fiscal measures, but that the benefits are also an essential element. Therefore, the 1999 budget also guarantees the benefits in kind for schoolbook and school-free travel. Minister! It is a pleasure that the Minister of Transport and you, in a convention in April of this year, succeeded in integrating the free movement of students and apprentices into the transport associations. This ensures that pupils and apprentices are free to travel in-service until at least 2002. Unfortunately, the discussions on family support often reveal the fact that important family policy benefits, other than cash benefits, are also paid out of the Fund. This includes, for example, the financing of family advisory services with 110 million schillings, which have the task of consulting in all legal and social matters, on family matters. Recently, the sect education has also been given particular importance. For the future, however, the advice of new entrants who want to return to the profession after child care will become important. Of course, the important family policy measures also include contributions to the pension fund, the financing of the mother-child passport examinations with the mother-child passport bonus and the pension contributions from the karenz money. You can continue the list. Another statement on the framework conditions that are crucial to better agreeing between work and family life. With the family package – this was mentioned by my previous speaker Dr. Moser – it was also agreed that another 600 million schilling by the federal government – the doubling of the amount should be done by the countries – will be made available for the expansion of childcare facilities. The SPÖ therefore argues that, as is already the case in Sweden and Germany, there is a legal claim for each child to a suitable care place. This means that the legal measures must be forced in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there should also be a right to part-time leave in order to allow mothers, but also fathers, to maintain contact with the company or the workplace in addition to their duties and duties in child care, thus facilitating their return to work life. This includes, of course, a right to part-time work for parents and the right to return to a full-time job. This also includes extending the retention period from currently four weeks to 26 weeks. Finally, I believe that other additional rules will be necessary, especially in the context of infrastructure and the improvement of family structures. This is precisely why Ladies and gentlemen, as from July 1998, Austria will take over the EU Presidency, thus making it even more difficult for the international comparison of child care facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:39]] Corrigendum to the written communication
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2690	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I announce the following: Since the last reform of the Rules of Procedure, the allocations have not been announced orally, but are contained in a written communication. In the communication distributed today, the Bundesmuseen Act for the Assignment to the Teaching Committee and the Bundestheater Organisation Act for Assignment to the Constitutional Committee is proposed. I now see from the Minutes of the last President's sitting, page 19 that it was assumed that these two documents were assigned to the Committee on Culture. I would therefore like to modify this written document in such a way that the presentation is not assigned to the Committee on Education and the other, not to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but to the Committee on Culture for the purpose of these considerations. – I would ask you to take note of this. The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Talk time 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2734	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal exclusively with this budget chapter today. My first observation, Mr Family Minister, concerns the chapter on youth and family of the draft budget: There are also a large number of budgets for family advisory services this year, namely, 110 million schilling. However, if you subtract the funds for the sect advisory services of all the federal states, it is a minus. Minister! I know that the issue of sects is a special matter of heart and is of great importance to you. I do not want to deal with the sect question today either, because we still have enough time to do so on the occasion of the discussions of the present government paper. However, what I would like to ask is whether the funds could not be used more efficiently, for example, to give more assistance to victims of sexual abuse, or also given that the number of single parents is increasing to offer more advisory opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to take a closer look at the School Book Action, which is also consistently - relatively high - marked for the year 1999 with 1.2 billion schilling. My first point is that, according to the Court of Auditors' report, the objectives of the School Book Action, which the Federal Government has set itself, have unfortunately not been achieved. For example, the supply rate of students with new schoolbooks has fallen from 85 percent in the last years in 1994/95 to 76 percent in the school year 1996/97. This is to be compared with the annual cost of managing the School Book Action, which I think is enormously high with nearly 60 million schillings. The share of the cost of teaching staff involved in the school book action is also disproportionately high with 50 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! However, 110 million schilling for staff and administrative costs alone for the school book action and to maintain this condition cannot be your goal. Mr Minister, I really wonder what you will do about it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Since the last schoolbook action, I have also been wondering whether more than ten titles per school level must be offered for twelve school forms and a total of 27 teaching articles. In addition, the bookstore share of 26.5 percent of the net charge price is high. According to the Court of Auditors' report, this is apparent from the turnover tax levy of around 228 million schillings. It is to be questioned, ladies and gentlemen, whether subsidies are already paid to the bookshops. If you do that, Mr Federal Minister, then you should also stand by it, then you should admit it too. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We Liberals are committed to improving the efficiency of the School Book Action. Our model provides the following – I can remind you –: First: Starting from the centralist regulation to the autonomy of schools. Secondly, Promotion of new technologies and a departure from the traditional book. Thirdly, Termination of cartel-like interaction from publishing houses, authors and abduction commission. We want more competition in the book industry again, and that is why these demands are not independent from each other. They condition each other if they really want to lead to cost savings. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the 600 million schillings that have been made available for the extension of childcare facilities, the question arises whether the practice of awarding should not be based on the extension of care periods which, as we know, are still very difficult in the federal states. I am thinking, for example, of the follow-up of the young children or of the care of dependent children. I could also imagine that care is offered at night. Furthermore, there is still a lack of competition for private initiatives in childcare. We Liberals have made a request in this regard, which provides for the tax deductibility of child care costs. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as the partnership of family work is not yet established in a social-political way – and I would like it to be implemented before there is progress in this regard – we need children's facilities that meet at least the minimum requirements so that women can also pursue employment. In contrast to some other group here in the House, we Liberals have the possibility that women who want to work will also have the opportunity to do so and that they will find the necessary framework conditions. [[Congratulations with the Liberal Forum and by Dr. Mertel and Reitsamer.]] However, it must also be a matter of course for us that single parents who have to contribute to the necessary living will be able to choose from a wider offer in the future. These include flexible care periods, day and night care as well as hours of child care. In order to enable this to happen, it will be necessary in the future to also promote private initiatives, which will bring up a great deal of commitment and imagination in order to meet the real needs as well as possible. Federal Minister! I would remind you that, on the occasion of the discussion on the family package, you have declared that you are in negotiations with Mrs Prammer regarding the reintroduction of the full second year for single parents. We all know how it is ordered by the single parents; moreover, the grants from the hard-working fund, which have to be granted to about 60 percent of single parents, confirm this situation. Ladies and gentlemen! We also know from a study on the Austrian family landscape that the father-mother-child-idylle is more and more part of the past – whether we want it or not. Every fifth family with children is a one-parent family. Due to the continued social orientation on the ideal of the father-mother-child family, a number of disadvantages exist for single parents, i.e. less money, poorer apartments and less leisure time. Women are particularly affected. Since you, Mrs Moser, have brought us again today in your beautiful speech the idyll of the healthy, good and beautiful family, I would like to remind you of a sentence that you said on the occasion of the family study. I quote: If one wants to pursue successful family policy, it would not be helpful to the individual if one oversaw an ideological family concept. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: One must live it! That's important!]] Mrs. Dr. Moser! Go inside and think about what you said at the time or today! Mrs Mertel! I can only support all the demands you have made today regarding the future of childcare facilities et cetera; we are there at your side. Federal Minister! With regard to the introduction of a home aid, which we welcome, we will only wait for what the participation of the countries will look like. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point is the free ride. An old demand from us Liberals is to put the budget for school leavers into the autonomous administration of schools. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are convinced that, in the sense of self-responsibilities, schools themselves can best decide how to organize school-free travel the most cost-effective – and also the study plans. The involvement of pupils and apprentices in the transport networks is to be welcomed, even though, as I have to admit, it was rather late. What is incomprehensible to me, Mr Federal Minister, is why the existing contracts with the transport companies to carry out the student and apprentice-free journeys continue to be maintained and only abolished for the duration of the agreement. Mr Federal Minister, I expect an answer from you today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2792	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2816	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the speech by Mrs Haller, I was a bit concerned in some way – she was very concerned in this very detailed way with our neighbouring country of Germany – and I was concerned that, as her group already has so many abroad, she might have gone, so to speak, but she is still with us physically. I am very glad that my concern seems to be unfounded. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I would just like to say so much about Mrs Motter's comments: Mrs. Collaborator, the ideals and ideas of the Sonja Moser meet in a disturbing way with your statements when you heard the "F" group and were the same family spokesperson. - That's all I want to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the topic of family policy: My previous speakers have already addressed the family-degradation model here. Mrs Haller said that I would have said here six years ago that it was about the cornerstones and cornerstones of family policy, and that has led to a change. I should like to remind you that the introduction of the multi-children's season, the age season and, at the time, our principle of taking the family into account in tax law has actually been fully implemented with today's or already the decision of the Budgetary Act. [[Abg. Haller: You haven't made it yet!]] [[Abg. Haller: You didn't do it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without the help of the liberals, you wouldn't have done it!]] Of course, there are still many open desires. At international meetings, however, I constantly experience that many countries are envying us about our family policy, in their family-supporting component, in their family-supporting and also social component, which constitute our family support. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that family support does not mean financial support alone. Since the last few years, we have been very much aware that the families have problems. [[Abg. Ollinger: Again "expressive"!]] – Apparently I look at you too much, I get a strain! – The families obviously have problems and need help. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] There is violence on children, and it is not about trying by the Austrian People's Party in common with the "lobby for children" of the ÖVP women, in the form of a citizens' initiative, not to express wishes to Mr Bartenstein – but with his support – but to the Minister of Justice, who aim to help here and to restrict violence on children. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you are in the government, then put it into practice!]] Of course, this signature action also has added value, because it involves many people. And when you talk to the people, you hear the real voices of the families, the voices of the people who give their opinion on the whole area of family. There are also many wishes in this direction. . So we are handed over as many signatures as possible, so to speak, as the bundled impact of the individual, here in Parliament. The problem is really huge, as is the helplessness of some people. And what is particularly concerned is that violence occurs mainly in the families themselves, in the family environment. The danger does not come so much from the outside, but from the inside. I therefore believe that a number of measures are still important in order to create a certain awareness in this direction. Federal Minister! I would like to use the last minute of my speech to thank you very much for the willingness to sign the Article 15a Treaty on the Thaya Valley National Park. We are very pleased about this in our region, because not only do we receive a beautiful piece of nature, but for us this project, also as far as tourism is concerned, is associated with many hopes for the region. I should also like to express my concern at the population of my district, which is located directly on the border with the Czech Republic, and to ask for support from the country of Lower Austria as regards the Dukovany Atomic Camp. We are in great concern, because it only separates us a few kilometers from the miles that stand there. If the nuclear power station is to be expanded to an enormous extent, then we really have great fears. I really have full understanding of the concerns, of the fear of these people. I have been very committed to this and have tried to help prevent the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power station. However, I would like to ask you not to forget about this debate, which is, of course, justified and up-to-date, the problem of Dukovany.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2940	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 20 minutes speaking time. [[Abg. Oillinger: I won't need that!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e2969	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now heard a lot about scientific statistics and comparisons – and I am actually very impressed. [[Abg. Wabl: And ideologies too!]] Mrs Sonja Moser, for example, has had the urine and the blood examined by the children – obviously on behalf of the ÖVP. Mr Kopf has previously put forward a very important international comparison to prove the overregulation because Austria is at the forefront, namely the World Economic Freedom Index, in order to show that we need more deregulation. The problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, was and is, however, the following: If you are leading international statistics and comparisons as well as scientific work to prove something, you must have read it too. The reason why we cut off so badly in the World Economic Freedom Index, with the values of freedom for Austria, is quite simple and simple – as simple as this investigation itself –: We have the military duty to the federal army. In this international investigation, compulsory military service is classified as a forceful character, and we therefore cut off very, very badly. I now come to the speech of Mr Sonja Moser and her investigation. Of course, a few comments must also be made. Mrs Moser! They lead the stressors present in small children when they are in a group of children, and they also show these stressors in the blood, in the urine and elsewhere, even in the sweat of the children. This study may have failed to investigate the stressors in mothers or also an examination of the stressors that occur when the children are at home and stay exclusively with their mothers. One thing has already been said at this point: The policy of recent years, which you so highly value, Mrs Moser, the family policy of the government parties, has caused a lot of stress to many women with children. One needs to look at only single mothers: The stress to which these mothers are exposed, along with their children, to bring all that you and we all talk about, into one hat, namely, the profession and the family, has increased enormously. In this case, however, there is obviously no oeuvre or blood check. But I would very much like this one, because with such one-sided and short-term investigations as you bring them here, we do not get much further, Mrs Moser. [[Abg. Kampichler: There are ÖVP initiatives to improve the compatibility of work and family!]] The ÖVP initiatives to improve the compatibility of work and family have been decided with the savings packages: During a karenz holiday or during the karenz season, families, mothers with children, single parents experience how hard it is for the government parties to actually put a job and a family into a hat. I do not think that will be forgotten quickly. What you have done in this area in recent years is for the families, is more than dangerous for women and not exactly a bonus point that you can attach to your shoulder. I am sorry, Mr Kampichler, but there is still a lot to be said about that. I now come to another area, because I do not think it would be useful to hold here a debate on family aid again, a debate which we held two weeks ago, in committee and then in plenary. I should like to say a few words about that point, which has not yet been raised, but which concerns the budget massively. And this also has to do with deregulation, with a deregulation which the Minister is particularly proud of, that he always seems to be able to involve private companies in initiatives of the family ministry. We had the same situation a year ago: There was the "famous" advertising of the family ministry on television, where the companies "Teekanne" and McDonald ́s – well-knownly very family-friendly facilities – made advertising for the family in the sense of the family ministry. Now there's a new action. Since it is obvious to you that as a result of the removal of the birth grant – and I agree with you – it is a problem for you to actually bring mothers with their children to health examination, you introduced a Recall system with the support of Pampers. – Just a comment – they are also environmental ministers: Regardless of the fact that, of course, for women – for every man, for every woman – it means that there is one way to go, you, Mr Federal Minister, should not make this question that easy. They so to speak, give Pampers the higher consecrations of the Ministry of the Family and the Environment by having them advertised as a priority for an action by the Ministry of the Family. And, of course, Pampers does not do this for the very reasons that mothers want to do to test their children's health, but because she simply wants to make profit from this action. This action on the one-way diapers is not necessarily an action which, as it were, has to do with the environmental objectives of the Minister for the Environment Bartenstein. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I do not want to preach now that there are multiple - way diapers, and here there is a campaign for multiway diapers and fabric diapers. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Did you wrap children?]] – I have also wrapped children, Mrs Deputies! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Very good! Congratulations!]] I know the problem. I know the advantages and disadvantages of one-way diapers and fabric diapers. If I had enough time, I'd like to discuss it with you longer. The following are still mentioned on this issue: It is not quite as simple and not as simple as the Minister for Family Affairs wants to see, both from the environmental problem and from the problem, which naturally occurs when the Ministry, in order to carry out an important health policy with the citizens of this country, has to resort to the help of a private company and the policy of the Ministry of the Family is obviously taken care of by private sponsors. I believe that this is indeed a non-significant problem in this respect. Federal Minister! One last point, which naturally has to do with the 1999 budget indirectly – we will soon be discussing this in the Committee – concerns the Cult Advisory Office. They have sent out a draft law which will soon be discussed in the Committee. I would just like to say the following: We will have opportunity next week to talk about all this in a survey on sects and psychocults. In any case: I would have expected and wished for a little more courage from you, Mr Federal Minister, in relation to this sect advisory body. Minister! You sent out a first draft a year ago. This did not contain any restrictions on certain groups. As a result, the Bishops' Conference is very massive – and rightly so! – criticises that sects are not defined in this draft, and it has demanded that the large churches and religious societies, so to speak, be excluded from this draft. If this is done – and this was very clear from the opinion of the Bishops' Conference – then it is no matter if there is no definition of the term "sects". That's how you acted, Minister of State. In your design, you still lack any definition of what a sect or sect-like structure is. There is no definition as to whether or not religious sects should be involved. On the contrary: They also include world view sects. I would have liked to know from you what you imagine below. They define sects only on the consequences of the dangers they face. However, if you take this seriously and only define the problems of danger, you will not get away with it, Mr. Federal Minister, also about groups such as "Opus Dei", "Werk", "Engelwerk", "Piusbruderschaft", "Peter Bruderschaft", the "Thirteenth" and which groups are still in the conservative-Clerical corner – partly with completely manipulative tendencies in the psychological field – to discuss. The fact that you are avoiding this problem from the debate that you do not at all agree to debate it in the context of a debate on sects and sect-like groups is, in principle, appreciating the draft on the Cult Advisory Centre – in addition to all the other criticisms that could still be put forward on this draft! I am concerned that it will also be possible for a completely uncontrolled flow of data to take place between those bodies which exchange this information. This is also criticized by the Data Protection Council. I was just as you always believe - and we Greens have made many proposals and initiatives in this regard - that the debate on the problem of sects is important and necessary. But one condition is that you know how to define sects, what you want to understand. However, you, Mr Minister, completely reject such a dispute with this draft. Another point: It is also necessary to know when the limits have been reached. If completely uncontrollable data flows are made possible within the framework of this sect advisory body, I think this is a huge problem that can no longer be controlled. If there is still a need for the Cult Advisory Office to be able to accept orders for third parties – that is why I am back at the starting point – it will be particularly sensitive: If they are allowed to accept and carry out contracts for third parties outside the Federal Republic of Germany, there is the same problem as with the Federal Environment Agency, in such a way that someone can give orders that either – quite well dressed – himself wants to represent certain sect-like interests, or a large church, for example, deliberately serves the sect advisory body to represent their interests. And I don't think both are reasonable. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, on this point: I would like to remind you of something – perhaps you do not know –: In Germany there is already a big debate about the fact that sects and sect-like groups – and these are not "Opus Dei", the "Engelwerk", the "Work" and similar groups, but rather quite traditional religious sects and psychocults – are active in the area of the Great Churches, because they can, of course, make this much more protected there than is possible in the so-called unprotected area not protected by the Great Churches. In this respect, there is a broad debate in Germany. With your draft, Mr Minister, you do not help to counter this trend. On the contrary: They promote such development by expressly excluding the area of the major churches and religious societies from this scope of application. And I think that's a problem. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Do you know Article 15 of the Basic Law?]] I know the Article 15 of the Basic Law. However, this does not make it necessary for a state mission that certain tendencies – and these do not concern the large churches as such; which I consider to be a meaningful, important and valuable institution – which has been attached to the margins of these large churches, so that the state, as with the small sects, with the psychocults, with the "Scientology" et cetera, has carried out its mission. If you can explain to me, Mr. Federal Minister, the difference between the activity of "Opus Dei" and the activity of "Scientology", then we would already be a step further.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3070	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3091	Mr President. High house! Mr. Environment Minister! With this speech I would like to document that I am now turning to the next block, the environment. From the fullness of the topics, I would like to draw attention to the Amsterdam Treaty, in which I welcome a commitment to sustainable development. I welcome this because there is a common ground within the EU and the European Union will certainly be more powerful in the international community in the field of environmental contracts. For Austria, this specification is particularly important because it allows the higher national standards to be maintained and does not need to be reduced. Austria has always tried to establish and comply with high standards, and expects this from its neighbours due to certain fears. This has already been discussed intensively today, so I do not want to touch on the issue of Mochovce anymore. I agree with Mr Langthaler, who has been very intensive about the transit flows. Their statements can only be underlined as a representative of a region in which eastern transit flows are most intense. I would also like to encourage us to break more of our heads, to deal with these transit streams in other ways, whether on the waterways, where there could be interesting projects, such as the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel, or on the rail, which would contribute to the relief of our environmental structures. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to raise another point. We have not discussed the National Employment Action Plan for too long ago, and an Austrian medium is taking this matter seriously. I would also like to propose appropriate environmental projects. Fortunately, there are already some projects, but they are all temporary, they are related to the labour market service and are rather heading towards transit jobs, not permanent jobs. However, there are examples of where these tasks could be done perfectly. I would like to mention, in turn, the action of an environmental association from Lower Austria, in which the number of originally five transit jobs could already be increased to 20. Services and services are offered to individual municipalities to provide local image care and environmental advice. Such projects could fulfil a very important educational mission – overall, for the discharge of the environment, but also for more employment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3134	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3155	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, in response to an oral question by Mr Gaugg, you have given an opinion on the Toronto target and on the Kyoto target in the course of the budget debates. They have found that there are interministerial talks to define the post-Kyoto strategy. It is in progress, but a definitive strategy could only take place after the adoption by the EU of the reduction contributions of the Member States. Federal Minister! They also argued that a large number of studies show that achieving ambitious reduction targets is not only economically reasonable – that was the concrete question as to how it stands with economic viability – but also brings advantages to the economy. There is also, of course, a different study, which counts the achievement of the Toronto target with an effort of around 53 billion schilling, namely the study by Professor Voss. The truth will probably lie somewhere in between, especially if one creates the appropriate framework conditions. It is, as I believe, about strengthening the use of renewable energy sources, i.e. actually helping renewable energy sources to break through, to give them a chance. In this context, I would like to address biomass use. We know – your colleague, Mr Molterer, was involved in the panel discussion – that Professor Schneider has demonstrated that this could create a wealth of jobs. On the question of what Minister Hostasch, who was also present, and Minister Molterer will now make it because of the fact that there is the possibility of creating 53 000 jobs, as they want to do, the answer of Mrs Hostasch, was that she would bring it into the tax reform committee. – That actually means a push on the long bank. Federal Minister! They have said that, of course, the Toronto target is to be achieved and will be maintained and, in the end, it will depend on the interest groups – I read – and on the energy politicians whether this is happening or not. And that points out, as I say, what skills you really have as an environmental minister. I consider your possibilities to be very limited to God, and that has also been shown last Sunday. You were invited last Sunday to "for business" and I do not assume that you did not take part in it due to your degree of exhaustion due to the marathon race. They thought that this was not within your area of responsibility – that is like a red thread going through it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Primary, Mr. Colleague, primarily!]] There are a large number of issues that are very important to us – in this case it was Mochovce – in which there is no competence and obviously no coordination between the individual ministries takes place. You have no competence in the final effect, and I think it is very sad that the Minister for the Environment, especially in this situation where we are now, is exercising restraint. Mochovce is not a nuclear power plant like any other, even if it is used in the media that 95 percent of the defects that exist or have been detected have been corrected. A very important problem is the reactor pressure container. This shows shortcomings which are probably even indisparatable. It is a question of whether the emergency measures already taken, even before this reactor is switched on, can be implemented at all. There is no cooperation with other ministries in this respect, and there has not been the necessary pressure. I also see this in the field of the implementation of the Kyoto target. If I look at the course of emissions over years, it should be noted that this is almost the same. That is, no trace of implementation of the Toronto target, no trace of implementation of the Kyoto target. I'm actually wondering: What measures will and will you take to contribute, as Minister for the Environment, to the achievement of this objective? A great opportunity would certainly be given in the area of ElWOG to help renewable energy sources break through. But I fear that the clocks will go something different again, and it must be noted that the interest groups or those who want to receive these protected areas have the great saying. They cannot be expected to engage in the discussion accordingly and to help to improve the existence of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3193	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3214	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to thank those Members who are now in plenary, because otherwise I would feel very, very lonely. I would ask you to evaluate my statements on family policy accordingly. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With today's day, we decide on the budget in the family sector for the year 1 after the biggest family tax reform of recent times. For the families of Austria, a new era begins, and I would like to thank the family minister and his team very much for the results he has achieved in favour of the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have thus achieved much more justice in the taxation of family incomes. And I would like to say to Mrs Haller: The Constitutional Court agrees with this solution. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give my personal thanks. Since I belong to this House – and there are eight years to be included in the Federal Council – it was my great concern to achieve more justice in family taxation. And only the greatest optimists among us have really believed that in fact 12.6 billion schilling will be available to families in the future. I congratulate us on this result. We present ourselves with a very, very good witness. This tax reform, of course, not only has enormous scope for family policy, but also, of course, economic impact. The families, ladies and gentlemen, can play a greater part in the prosperity. Austria is one of the richest countries on earth, and families will feel this wealth to a greater extent in the future. In the implementation of family policy, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the Family Compensation Fund is an important instrument. The enormous sum of 57 billion schilling is being carried over this fund every year, and I am pleased that it will again have a surplus from 1999. The debt to the Minister of Finance is also paid, i.e. the Minister of Family Affairs has re-designation possibilities with this fund in favour of the families. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a criticism that is constantly coming – today by Mr Haller – that the countries are paying too little in these family compensation funds. I have often dealt with this issue at national level, and I have been able to convince myself that the countries are spending a lot of what they would have to pay for their own family policy and family support measures after the abolition of self-employment in the funds. Lower Austria spends over 100 000 S annually for the country's family aid alone. In addition, support for family and family support facilities is provided. And so, of course, all other countries have similar great offers. I have listed this once so that we can see what is really done by the countries. Of course, countries want to set their own priorities. Each federal state creates guidelines for the family subsidies according to its own conception. Most of them are social aspects that are important. Countries are also a little more flexible in this area, and they can set very specific priorities. If you look at the promotions, you can see that there is a very high level of social security. Perhaps there is still a trace of distrust on the part of the countries because there were times when FLAF funds were used for the restoration of football stadiums or similar things. Perhaps the countries want to prevent such things and therefore they themselves want to put in place family policy measures. If there are any changes in this respect, then this is only done in the course of the financial compensation. The whole situation should therefore be renegotiated. I believe that the current procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is not a bad one. Together, countries and federations make a good family policy, above all our family minister, who still has great tasks ahead of him. He will also solve these tasks train by train. I wish him every success and good.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3274	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of my second speech, I should like to focus on family policy issues and your contributions to debate. If, Mr Kampichler, you have just mentioned that the Family Tax Reform 1999 is a great success, then we must also say that with the 1999 budget we implement the first half of this family tax reform, that more than 6 billion schilling, which will benefit families from 1999 onwards, will now be decided – 3 000 s per child per year; in full development from 2000 onwards, there will be 6 000 S. It is precisely for this time, Mrs Haller, that, after the political agreement with the coalition partner, I did not foresee the reintroduction of the home aid, but rather the extension of the free movement of students also on journeys from home to a boarding school. This is why from the year 2000 onwards, as well as the corresponding increase in the funds for the Family Hardly Balance Fund in conjunction with a preparation, an adaptation of the guidelines in order to help more in need families. Mr Kampichler! You also said a few words about FLAF surpluses. It is right – and I am pleased to note this – that the family allowance fund, that is, the large family pot, will return to the black figures and produce surpluses for the first time after the hard times of the restoration of this pot in 1999, and, of course, it is my desire to make these surpluses benefit the families in a meaningful way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to some of the desires – I do not take out the countries, not even the national Heads of State Conference, but there are other desires – I can only say: First of all, the family compensation fund does not yet have these surpluses. Secondly, important tasks await us, and thirdly, this fund is designed exclusively to help families. I know that there are still a number of drops of advertising from the funding side, and from my point of view this includes the self-sustaining of the countries. It is not the right time for this, but if the financial compensation is renegotiated – that should be the case in 2000 – and I still bear responsibility in this relationship, I will put it to the debate, because there is a grey financial compensation not only in one direction but also in the other direction, and that is what it is about. I am very pleased, by the way, and this has also been said by Mrs Mertel, earlier on, that the agreement with colleagues One has succeeded in integrating pupils and apprentices into the transport networks – in two stages: by autumn this year and finally by autumn next year – but at the same time we have agreed that at the latest at the beginning of the school year 2002/03 students and apprentices will be transported from the transport associations at the same conditions as adults, and that a part of a grey financial compensation at the expense of the FLAF will be removed. I know this is the medium-term future, but we have made the political decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haller said – which is a good right of opposition representatives – that the family tax reform was not done on a voluntary basis, that it was not in conformity with the constitution, and that thirdly, it was not far enough. – Of course, there can always be more, but believe me: There are very many serious voices that say that with these 12.6 billion schillings we have gone very, very far – some say: too far. There are economic researchers who speak of luxury gifts to the family. I am absolutely not of this opinion, but we have gone far. Mrs Haller, we have also gone quite a long way on voluntary matters. What we will and have decided here in the context of the budget accompanying legislation goes far beyond what the constitutional judges have imposed on us. The Constitutional Courts simply demanded that better-earning families should be given horizontal compensation in such a way that their maintenance obligations are at least half tax-free. This is not the subject of the large majority of families – the weaker in income, the weaker families. There, the tax burden of these fictitious maintenance obligations is all compensated for by the amount of child replacement and by a proportion of the family allowance. But we have said that every child is worth the same amount, we are helping to the same extent – 6 000 S per child and year as the lower limit – and that goes far beyond what is required. There is a lot more family-political and, if you want to, also social-political impetus of the legislator with inside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the theory you put into space that children are a business for the state, since after this account of the media representative quoted by you about the double of what is being invested for children and young people comes back for the state, I can only say to you: The bill cannot vote – apart from the fact that children are incredibly important to us and are also an emotional joy. But a business in the sense that the state earns a few million, I don't see, and that's not necessary, that's not the point at all. To your comment on child care check: The study will be completed in these weeks, I'll introduce it. But let us be as sure of one thing: The time has now come for you to sit down and also financially digest what has just been decided, but it will only be implemented in two steps in the next two years, namely the family tax reform. It is this child care check – I also follow the events in Saxony, the project educational content or money, as it may be called, very precisely – a very, very interesting family project, no question, and we will discuss it, we will analyse it. But I would like to say clearly today and here: This is a medium-term project, and it will certainly not be possible to achieve it in the short term, mainly from financial but also from political considerations. We'll discuss it. Mrs Motter, you have had a little criticism – not for the first time – of the fact that the funds for family advice remain the same, but that now there also sect consulting is inevitably falling behind everything else. On the one hand, I can tell you that we have only been able to increase the funds for family advice to 110 million schilling because of re-transmissions, that the coalition partner is planning a further significant increase in the resources for family counselling from 2000 onwards and that the time spent on consulting the family advisory services up to now is a relatively modest one. That's what it's all about. One to a maximum of two family counsellors per state deal with sect consulting, which is a relatively small share in terms of over 300 family advisory services throughout Germany. I do not see the danger that other issues will somehow come under the wheels. As far as the school books are concerned, the schoolbook reform is now under way. The schools are changing, and there is now much more autonomy for schools than has been the case so far. That stated the objective of the schoolbook reform, Mrs Mother, is a two-part one: first, to say to the disposable school book ade. There is also a bit of the Environment Ministers in me. We did not want the disposable school book for many reasons, and I think that was a common position here in this House. Secondly, however, the level of supply should also be increased. It's right: Three quarters – you said 76 percent, and you quoted the Court of Auditors – are currently the level of supply. Within the next five years, the schoolbook reform will bring this degree of supply to 90 percent or perhaps over by setting up appropriate school libraries through the changeover to a partial re-use system. That is the stated objective of the schoolbook reform, and I think it makes sense. As far as the tax deductibility of childcare is concerned, Mrs Motter, I am sure that you will walk in with me – I say so quite openly – and certainly also with my group's friends quite open doors. We're not very far from that yet. The coalition partner has so far not said yes to this, and I am still not having an enthusiastic nod in this direction today, so that negotiations will still be held in this regard. Unfortunately, Mr Oellinger is no longer here, but I believe that today we have heard first offers of what is ahead of us when Mrs Langthaler, whom I expressly regret from his competence and also personally, leaves the House in the foreseeable future, despite many discussions which were political and hard. [[Abg. Wabl: We tell him!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, yes!]] Indeed, political tears are yours, and they are meant to be honest. Mrs Langthaler, if you leave this House, there may be a new fundamentalism in the Greens' environmental policy here in the House. But maybe it was just a slipper. The example of sponsoring contributions of 2 million schillings annually, the Procter & Gamble and therefore Pampers invest in the Recall system for 400,000 letters, the year after year to Austria's parents – primarily to the mothers, because they are responsible for the children – so that the examination discipline remains high within the framework of the mother-child passport examinations and perhaps even increases again – minus 9 percent unfortunately it was God's 1997; we have now received the data for the whole of Austria from the main association – and then to say: They are also environmental ministers, what about environmental policy? Disposable and therefore one-way diapers are something bad!, that is quite old environmental policy. Apart from that – and I know as a father of five children, what I am talking about – that there is no comparison between fabric diapers and disposable diapers – both try, ladies and gentlemen, no comparison! – there is a study by the Federal Environment Agency – not by the Austrian, but by the German Federal Environment Agency – which even represents a better environmental balance for single-way diapers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wabl: How many diapers have you washed yourself, yourself?]] So also from the ecological point of view, there are comprehensible serious studies, which, based exclusively on the eco-balance sheet, represent better environmental balances for disposable diapers – not to mention the convenience of mothers and ultimately the redness of children's possibilities, which should also be avoided. [[Abg. Ritsmer: The convenience of mothers! That's a typical man!]] So I hope that was a slipper and not the first prelude to what threatens us when Langthaler goes and another environmental spokesperson comes. Mr Oellinger has also commented on a problem which the House has not yet reached, on the consultation of the sects, and on some points has been criticised. I would like to say something in advance of the debate in committee and then in plenary – the law has already happened to the Council of Ministers – in response. There are two specific reasons why we have said that we want to use this bill to include within church groups and sects – by definition a sect may not be internal church, but you know what I am talking about; religious groups are meant to be left in the responsibilities of the churches and they do not, in any way, undergo the support of the Federal Cult Counselorate. Reason number 1 is one, I think, to take very seriously. I ask you to read Article 15 of the Basic Law of 1967. I think there are already many good reasons why this is to be arranged internally and should stay there as well. Reason No. 2 is politically almost the more relevant to me. We have not only delivered about 300 000 sect brochures in these one and a half years – the interest in them is still very large – but also had thousands of other contacts and telephone calls. We also need to see where the major problems are, which groups are making the big problems and which groups are making fewer problems. According to the statements of my employees and according to my personal experience, I must say that the internal church groups have made us relatively little to no problems until now. But I say one thing: If this were to change, there should be evidence that people are also being put into their misery that families are burdened that children are physically or emotionally deprived of their families, then I would not be afraid to take this issue very seriously. – But the status quo is that from our point of view this is not the problem. We will then discuss the data protection questions when they are ready. So much from my point of view on the issues raised by the representatives of the opposition parties on family policy. Mr President. I would like to thank you for your words.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3400	Thank you, Minister of State. I call Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3424	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to interfere in this expert dispute about Pampers and fabric diapers, as the Minister for the Environment has personally tried it. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: This has failed!]] I am convinced that he has tested this in detail and carefully examined it according to all the criteria of science. I would just like to say one thing to my colleague, Mr Oellinger: Regardless of how useful one or the other that you have tested is, of course, the question arises of how individual companies give additional authority to customers by having such contracts. The recovery between politics and the economy will, of course, be very problematic. And that's the point that Ollinger criticized. . I don't know how he's standing in front of the throwaways, I can only tell you: This refreshment is certainly problematic, because it also creates a gain in authority for the company. If the Minister for the Environment even has a contract with such a company, then of course the belief of consumers increases that it is a very serious company, which also has environmentally conscious products, regardless of how the individual product can now be assessed. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: And the most expensive diapers!]] The most expensive thing is because they have to make expensive advertising contracts with Mr Bartenstein. Of course, you have to get the money back somewhere, which is probably understandable. Of course, a nameless disposable diaper company is struggling to spend so much money to support the Minister for the Environment in his information campaigns. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say a sentence relating to your argument on the adoption or non-recognition of the Toronto objective and on the question of the justice of the individual states in relation to the objectives to be pursued or mandatory. Federal Minister! I believe that it is permissible for justice to be provided within a treaty work and that this argument should also be put forward, which is quite acceptable. But in order to maintain your credibility and Austrian credibility in relation to the efforts to reduce CO2, it is necessary to understand what happens if this or that goal is not achieved. Is there a sanction or a binding, clear definition at the legal level? What happens if that doesn't happen? Then what's going on? It should be similar to a company that has a debt eradication plan, is unable to comply with it and is in bankruptcy: What does this company do? . Similarly, you, Mr Environment Minister, should be credible, which measures will then be taken in the field of transport, energy policy in Austria, so that this objective can be achieved. That is why I think it is quite permissible to discuss whether international agreements are fair or unfair and whether undue shifts have been carried out, as you have described in the example of China and Portugal very impressively. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would particularly like to address a chapter relating to the budget environment, which concerns the problem of the environmental promotion law, in particular the issue of wastewater treatment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of the Environment has only published the technical directives after four years of delay, after the entry into force of the Environmental Promotion Act. Until these technical guidelines have come out, but already 20 billions of funding have flown. Moreover, the requirements contained in the technical directives are not fully met: It always happens that, during the procedure, re-optimisations are being carried out, which is supposed to be the best system to achieve the objective set out in the Water Law Act, namely the clean-up of groundwater and surface waters. There are still gross maladministrations, ladies and gentlemen. We have also set up a committee in the Committee on Urban Water Management – the Members of Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Wurmitzer are not here now – which has drawn up directives, and these directives are still not enforced in the federal states. These directives should have a binding character, otherwise this measure in some areas is almost nothing but an exclusive promotion of banks and the construction industry. – I say it again: I consider the water law law with its last novels in itself to be a good law, an excellent law and also a positive one. Again: I have no problem with the fact that the construction industry also deserves it, I have no problem with the fact that the banks are paid for their work and are paid well, but I have a problem with this when environmental laws degenerate into economic promotion laws. Federal Minister! We have tried several times in the Committee on Urban Water Management to draw attention to this. There have been heated debates there, and I would like to draw your attention once again - I also discussed this with the Minister for Agriculture in the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Agriculture - that it would be necessary to adopt clear guidelines which must ultimately be followed by those dealing with the funding. I think it would be more reasonable – you may now wonder, because it is your part in itself – to consider outsourcing, decommissioning the order management in this area and extending the skills of local credit. I believe that at the moment, not only at the moment, but in recent years, it has worked very badly, that officials in the Federal administration, in the middle of the federal administration, are doing a lobbying for quite certain variants and for certain construction projects. This has led to great displeasure in certain communities and to the demise of certain citizens. In my opinion, there have also been grossest abuses. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! In particular, I consider the events in Carinthia to be extremely problematic, since, in view of their absence, a national councillor obviously does not know what the water law law actually intends and the state of the art obviously becomes a self-evident. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be! It cannot be said that the modest installations which have so far had certain farmers and house-keepers who are suffering, have achieved a water quality between one and two, and then, by means of funding funds and brachial power, a canal system has been implemented by certain mayors, which ultimately results in a lower water quality. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Umweltminister! I know that many evil words have been spoken in the Committee on Urban Water Management. I may have been involved in it many times, but I ask you to do so. I have the impression that at the federal level there are the best intentions – both on the part of municipal credit and on the part of the Ministry of the Environment and on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture. But it has become a practice in the municipalities and in the countries, on the basis of which one sees that this pot of funding is obviously misunderstood. One sees him as, so to speak, a great treasure from which the countries get money. The countries are as hard as possible to increase the budgets in the countries and the volume of orders. In my opinion, this kind of policy, which is the type of maladministration, must be remedied. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister - the Minister for Agriculture has already promised that he will try to make an appointment - to get an appointment so that all these shortcomings can be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say another sentence relating to the problem of Mochovce. Mr Langthaler is of course right when she says that we see on this issue how sensitive the Austrian population is in relation to environmental issues. The threat from this power plant is obvious. But there are now, above all, reports from the "Press" to rewind the whole thing in order to relativize the danger. Ladies and gentlemen! In a situation in which the people's representation, which does not see this House any more, can no longer intervene in this political process, in which the rulers, Mr Vice-Chancellor, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Minister for the Environment, have seen and recognized their boundaries, I think it is a legitimate means of politics that the Austrian people hold a large-scale rally and say what they think of nuclear energy. I believe that in a democratic republic in which the power goes from the people and is only delegated to the people's representation and the executive is assigned to act in the sense of the people, it is also legitimate for this power to be returned in part and made clear in the form of a demonstration of what Austria thinks in Europe and worldwide of this technology. I believe that the Federal Government - I am now deliberately saying this word - in itself had a fundamental position, but now it is going to take it because it means that it is sufficient if there is a safe nuclear power station. With this argument one could have put Zwentendorf into operation. Of course! Zwentendorf was – now it is no longer – safer in any case than Mochovce. You could have gotten a lot of money. But the Federal Government has rightly taken the fundamental position of being general against nuclear technology. I think it would be reasonable to consider this fundamental point of view. – There are always words that suddenly come into discredit because they obviously do not fit into a political discussion. Mrs. Haller today was particularly excited about the word "ideology". I've never found anything bad in the word "ideology". I find something bad only when people think ideology is more important than perception. Federal Minister! The Social Democrats have achieved the greatest achievements in the social field by making it clear, fortunately in recent decades, with peaceful means, that, in part, they have made clear by means of demonstrations on the streets, which they consider to be of certain political conditions. I believe that this would be a reasonable rally. I am thinking of less reasonable rallys in Austria, but I do not want to play one against the other. But this would also be a clear message in connection with the EU Presidency. In particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also believe that, if I look at this paper, this draft on the proposals for the EU Presidency, we must give massive importance to the issue of nuclear liability at European level. Austria should therefore make it clear that this is one of its central demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3516	The motion for a resolution proposed by Mr Wabl is sufficient for business regulation and is supported and included in the negotiations. Mrs Beder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3541	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As pleased as the family budget rises from 55.6 billion to 57.6 billion schilling, I find it sad that only 15 million schillings are planned after 1998 and 1999 for the family hardening, which was still spent in 1995/96 and 1997 with 23 million schillings, with only 14.571 million shillings. Federal Minister! I was pleased to hear your remarks that this should be increased in 2000. I hope you'll be Then remind you of your promise. In 1996, 1,348 applications were made, 323 were carried out positively, with only 24 percent of applications. From an answer to a question, I know that in 1997 1 449 applications were filed – again by 100 more than in the previous year – with 382 grants, including many single parents and families with only one income. However, 578 applications were rejected because they did not comply with the directives. Federal Minister! They stated in the answers to the Committee on Budgets that it was planned to change the directives according to the experience of recent years and adapt them to social conditions. I think it is now time to make this amendment to the directives. [[Abg. Reitsamer: Did you hear it, Mr. Federal Minister?]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that another 600 million Schillings will be available in the 2000 family package for the development of childcare. In the last two years, 19 000 new childcare facilities have been created by the 600 million Schilling by the federal government, which was fought by then Minister of Women Dr. Helga Konrad against severe resistance. In the case of childcare facilities to be created with the additional 600 million committed, it is important that attention be given to extending the opening hours of kindergartens. It is also intended to take account of the offers of occupational childcare and to take more account of the offers of student care for up to ten years. For women, for mothers, it is important to reconcile work and family, and for single parents it is important to be able to reconcile work and children. It is not only families that can be promoted, it must not be disregarded for the single parents who make up a large proportion of them, because many of them depend on support. I find it important that you promote the child, not how to live together or live together. I've been polling in my district, how it's ordered about childcare facilities. – There were, of course, shortcomings in the opening hours. Sometimes one gets comforted, we have a grandma, but what do those women who care for children and have no grandma – especially in summer, when the kindergartens are relatively long locked up? Then there is the possibility of private kindergartens. These are partly spent, and there are also some longer opening hours there. However, these kindergartens cost a lot of money, and many women can no longer afford to do so. 87 percent of the Austrian population believe that the family tax reform is a good measure. We Socialists think it is important that there is a similar increase in family allowances for all children. In my opinion, this is the most important thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that the Constitutional Court again has two single parents who would like to take two years' leave. We would have liked to add that back then to the decision on the reduction of the leave allowance. We believe that those women whom the husband or the father of the child has lost by reasons other than death, disability or illness should also be able to take two years' leave. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely on this issue that women in Parliament should be solidified with those who so urgently need this fourth half year of karenz, but we also need the men as partners to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3587	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3609	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to deal with the fact that Mr Bartenstein is also Minister for Youth, and perhaps he listens to me in this regard. It's just a little detail on the edge, but it's worth getting lit. Minister! They are youth ministers and therefore also responsible for young people. We all know that there is a precarious situation in the classrooms or in the training of young people, and I wonder what contribution the youth ministers make to the problem of teaching places, with the exception of pressing the thumbs that it will be better in the future. I don't think that's enough. If you look at the national employment plan adopted by the Government in April, which is once again the nice word: 'Youth for a chance', and when it is said that every youth will be offered a care offer within six months, it must be said that this is simply not enough. In this context, we must already ask ourselves: What can the Minister of Youth do about this? There are also funding facilities of the family ministry. Thereby significant subsidies are passed on to the Bundesjugendring. However, it must be noted that this is a party-politically motivated matter. There, according to the proportion, the subsidy millions are divided between red and black, and it is not checked at all how efficiently they are being done. If we look at what is actually happening to the money, then it is important not to pursue a youth policy, but to pay only officials employed by the various youth organizations. I do not think this is a proper approach to a functioning youth policy, but it is just a promotion. The question must be asked: What do you want to achieve with youth policy? – It is therefore appropriate to highlight the motto that young people should be called for and not exclusively promoted by youth organisations. This is not a youth policy yet. I am particularly concerned about one thing and see the party policy orientation of this federal youth ring, which is only a distribution point and costs money. The Freedom Youth Ring has submitted an application for admission, and this has been rejected, as one should say, almost scandalous, on the grounds that this youth organization does not dissociate itself from the party owner of the Freedom Party Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Scheibner: Scandal!]] The Minister for Youth really needs to intervene, because that has nothing to do with youth policy. That's what you're going to see. In fact, one wants to prevent the insight of the liberal youth organizations into the makings of the federal youth ring. As Minister responsible for this, I think you need urgent action to change something in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Youth policy should also be a policy for youth and not only for the red and black youth functionaries. A word to Mrs Mertel, who, as almost in each of her family's speeches, when it comes to the birth rate, rightly states that the framework conditions are not right. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And the partnership doesn't work! That's the point, I'm afraid I forgot it! I forgot to say that you are not helping at home!]] Now the two responsible are sitting together, and I ask you: Who has been primarily responsible for the framework conditions in Austria for 30 years? – Or are the Social Democrats no longer in the government? It could also be that this is the answer. But I think you, as a people's representative, are always going on according to the motto: I regret the current state of affairs, then make proposals for solutions, and if we are in the government, we will implement it. I think that's a little too little. Your family policy should be a little different in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course! How else should you argue?]] I do not think it is enough if you always say what you want to do, even though you sit in the government and you can do it. That's not a family policy! Minister! Finally, the urgent appeal: Set up Your youth policy on a real youth policy! Look Once you look at the Bundesjugendring very carefully, look at what happens to the funds there! Perhaps we'll be talking about the Bundesjugendring soon when you've been informed and more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3692	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3713	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The total expenditure of the youth and family budget chapter is increasing from 55 billion to 57 billion schilling. This includes, of course, the funds for increasing family allowances. The decided family package represents a decisive change in course for the families. The importance of the families is significantly increased, the benefits for the education of children recognised and paid with significant amounts. It will ensure a fairer burden distribution. The acceptance of family investment in the population is very high, according to the survey. 87 per cent are for increased family support, 86 per cent are for maintaining the multiple-child season, and 80 per cent think it is right to use budget resources in this way. This proves to us that we have gone the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An offensive family policy is a valuable decision, that is quite clear. It is not possible for politicians to create good and intact families, but we can improve the framework conditions, and we know that good families are irreplaceable. The only thing to think about is the care of the sick and the elderly, which is best done in the family and is also most cost-effective in the family. But one should also talk about what our families are for the physical and mental health of the growing children. It is very likely that there will be a discussion on the drug and alcohol abuse of young people and also on increasing violence and youth crime. In spite of all efforts, no one has the assurance that the children will "soon", but without a working family in which there is no security, and without intact social structure, it is all the more difficult or impossible at all. A person can only pass on what he himself received. An environment in which one cannot hold back will certainly not promote the strong development of our children. Disorientation, hopelessness and indifference result in violence, drug abuse and helplessness. A functioning environment, on the other hand, ensures hope, responsibility, performance and also social competence. The Austrian state provides very good financial support for our families – also compared to other countries. However, parents should not be taken out of duty to assume full responsibility for their children. Here, too, framework conditions can relieve families, such as the support of family-friendly companies, facilitation for women when they return to work or a continuous offer for further training. A broad acceptance for those women who are dedicated exclusively to child rearing is also important. But the parents' responsibility for the education and training of children must not be weakened. Family policy is provision for the future. I therefore welcome any measure to strengthen the families. Further actions by the Federal Ministry help to ensure that not only the financial character is in the foreground. I am thinking of the education of sects, the fight against drug abuse, and also the 'lobby for children' initiative, more protection for our children, is now fully supported and very necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for your special commitment to the negotiations on the family package. It was a great achievement. I am very pleased because I made a similar request in the Tyrolean Landtag in 1994. If the realization of this project has now been successful, I am delighted with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to say to Mrs Haller and Mr Ollinger: You said, of course, that we took away something from the families in the context of the savings package, but they never said where else we should have put up the money. Everyone had to make a contribution back then. The savings package was necessary because we also have responsibility for the future. We can't put our children's debts in the shoes in a good time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3793	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3814	High house! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to draw up a special chapter on environmental promotion today. The Environmental Promotion Act lays down in its objectives maximum environmental impact, in particular environmental priorities. These objectives will be achieved on the ground – also because this ecological priority is taken into account across the federal states. They know, however, that our state of Carinthia is in a special situation, because in the past it has focused on rehabilitating the many lakes we have, so that the degree of connection in our federal state is far behind the average of the Austrian port and is currently only 58 percent. This means that there are very many areas of settlement which are not yet covered by us, while other federal states are already disposed of in peripheral areas. From the point of view of Kärntner, we therefore want to launch an initiative and hope that you too will be able to support our appeal. [[Abg. Müller: The Landesratin Sickl has been very sumptuous so far!]] Landesratin Sickl has doubled the environmental funding for Carinthia, which is a first success, Col. Müller! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Only that is not enough – that is true – and let me therefore make what proposal we want to make today. I hope that at least the Carinthian Members will be able to support the motion for a resolution that I am going to make today. Our proposal is that the annual special tranches for environmental promotion, which are paid out from the loan sales of the environmental and water management funds at that time, will be committed to waste disposal in urban areas. That would be a proposal that would be necessary from our point of view. Or, however, the annual funding provided for Carinthia for wastewater disposal will be increased once again, because otherwise we – there are also two mayors affected here, we know – cannot comply with the provisions of the Water Law Act. The projects already in place can never be implemented by means of the funds for Carinthia in the scheduled period. This would mean, first of all, a double financial burden on citizens, second, that we, as I said, would not comply with the law on water law, and third, that we could not comply with the 1991 EU Council Directive and therefore we would also have to expect a infringement procedure by the European Union. [[Abg. Wormitzer: No case of Carinthia has been rejected so far!]] - That's right. But, Mr Wurmitzer, as mayor you should actually know exactly the problem, and you should also know that the... – Yes, for your community, but not for the whole federal state. [[Abg. Wormitzer: I already solved it!]] We know that the facts are on the table and that, as a result of this situation, there is a real need for action. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! I believe that this request is legitimate, and I hope that you will also support this request of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3902	The motion for a resolution, Mr Ing. Reichhold has just submitted a statement of business regulations, is sufficiently supported and is involved in the negotiations. Mr Oberhaidinger came to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3929	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You know that when it comes to energy, I always believe that that energy that is not consumed is the cleanest energy. Therefore, in the section on the economy, I have mentioned the forced expansion of district heating in Austria, and I would like to address today to the capital environment the energy saving in public buildings, Minister of State. When I look at the German neighbours, I see that there is the so-called third-party financing possibility, probably better known to us under the title "Contracting". In Germany, there are already 15,000 such contracts and projects. So it can be said that our German neighbours are already out of the pioneer phase, and they want to create 40 000 such projects until the turn of the millennium – I have read – until the turn of the millennium. If you look at the numbers and improvements that can be achieved with them, you do not wonder about this goal. By using well-known techniques, 45 percent of energy consumption could be saved. As measured by today's energy prices, this means a cost-saving of around 700 billion Schilling for Germany. Under this title, about half a million new jobs could be created, according to the German surveys. Federal Minister! All of these are points of view, I think, which are also very interesting and attractive for us in Austria. I am therefore particularly pleased that you – I have at least read it in a press release – accept these possibilities. According to this issue, 530 million schilling could be saved on energy costs alone in the public buildings in Austria. If I quote correctly, about 3 billion schillings would have to be spent on this – investments, ladies and gentlemen, which would already be amortized in about six years. In total, we could save one fifth of the cost of building energy in Austria. It could be saved 16 billion schilling in this way. We could, if we were to implement these measures more rigorously, rebuild some 2,000 to 3 500 jobs. It is particularly pleasing for those dealing with environmental issues that the CO2 emissions from this measure could be reduced by around 2.5 million tonnes. In line with the third-party financing model, the funds should be used for these investments by external partners – external partners, who will receive the effort from the difference between the previous and the new energy costs. If the costs for the third party have been amortized, the savings achieved will fully benefit the client – in this case the public sector – what, I think, is quite good for our budget. The Ministry of the Environment will be the first Ministry to conclude such a contract. I hope, Minister of State, that it will not go along with the intention, and in particular I hope that the other ministries will take this direction-setting step. I would rather, if these measures could be carried out in one hand, for example through BUWOG or similar facilities in which our public buildings are managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3977	I call Mr Koller. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e3998	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein said in the Committee on Budgets: I have reason to rejoice. – For the families, however, this jubilation is limited. You, Mr Minister, reject the increase in the Mother-Child-Bonus-Bonus from currently 2 000 S to 6 000 S. The Family Policy Advisory Council has recommended this, but still you reject this increase. The amount should be sufficient to stimulate the investigation – you said, Minister. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in family allowances was announced a great deal. Federal Chancellor Climate and Minister Prammer stole the show from you. My question in the Committee on Budgets whether families with low incomes could not fall through the rust was not answered by you, Mr Minister. I therefore repeat my question. The income of a family is so low that a fee exemption is granted. The family grant is regarded as income. If the tax rate is now exceeded by the increase in family allowances, the exemption will not apply. This means that despite the increase in family allowances, this family must suffer financial losses. I note that more and more poor families are being pushed into the financial abyss. Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare: 139 500 childcare places are missing. The following measures are envisaged: The development of institutional childcare facilities, day-parents and the promotion of farm kindergartens. The babysitting check is not mentioned here. My question in the Committee is: Are you for or against child care check? You have answered the following, Minister: The study is only available in the summer. – I say to you: You're a minister without any opinion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today stood in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": Austrian seal of quality for non-genotechnic products – Pickerl costs between 12,000 and 15,000 p. – Mr. Minister! How do you imagine this: besides marketing contribution and AMA seal another pickerl? – The consumer no longer knows about loud pickerl and seal! The load is shifted on the organic farmers. Minister! We reject any further burden on farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus very briefly on the problem of sects. "Sect" is used today as a collective term for pseudoreligious groups, for psychocults or for guru movements. In the search for one’s own personality, young people strive to look for models and guidelines. The willingness of young people to submit and their personal willingness to sacrifice are shamelessly exploited by sects. There is a psychological dependence. For members and their families in their social environment, emotional damage is done. People, especially young people, seek spirituality. This would be the task of the legally recognized religious communities. The churches – I speak of the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant Church – are in a deep crisis. They have been involved in politics far too much. The churches should turn back to their religious duties and solve their own problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Politics should be made by the parties and their politicians – on behalf of the Constitution and to preserve democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4102	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Koller at the beginning of his speech has been submitted, sufficiently supported and included in the debate. Mr Schuster. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4126	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker said Mr Bartenstein was a minister without any opinion. - I'm against this. Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartensteinsagen concerning family package according to the Council of Ministers: The family package is not only visible, it is great! – We have a Federal Minister with an excellent opinion, and I congratulate you, Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Family policy in Austria and family policy of this Federal Government has a high priority. It is rooted in the conviction that the family is the basis for a decent society and that the appreciation of the family not only decides on individual happiness but also on the state of society as a whole. We hear from many places that the family is the germ of society. Ladies and gentlemen! In the conclusion of the third Christian millennium, it turns out that neither the individual nor the collective is able to deal with social problems alone. We need to deal with these problems more than ever with the family. Of course, the term "family" may be, so diverse are the social and political ideas about it. Again and again, the question is: Is the state supposed to promote the family at all? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where? Who asks such a question? Who asks such a question? Who asks such a question?]] Mrs. Family spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party! The criticism from various groups is whether a support system in Austria – not only for families but also for all other areas – gives a sense of whether or not funding should generally be stopped, whether one should not make enough money for the citizens and thus fight everything out of one's own pocket. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Mertel.]] In the past, ladies and gentlemen, when the burden of young and old people within the families has been borne, a change has occurred in recent decades, when the costs for the elderly have been transferred to the general public by pension insurance, but the ever-increasing loads of children – at least thoughtfully – continue to be attributed to the families alone. High house! In today's society, the family carries a variety of functions. I mean, however, that it has essentially two major objectives to pursue. One of the most important objectives is to raise children and impart knowledge and values. The second point: The family has a lot to do for a good pension system. Here the question is raised: What is family at all? If you ask this question in a kindergarten, the answer will come quickly: Family are father, mother and child. – Let us read in § 40 ABGB: There "family" is defined as the tribal parents with all their descendants. It therefore raises the question of a definition of family at all. While the Austrian People's Party, as a classic family model, has two married parents with their children living in the same household as still having the best ideal in mind, the Social Democratic Party has a statement in its programme, which means that family is any form of permanent cohabitation in a partnership and democratic manner. In this Federal Government, there is a great deal of effort, although ideologically there are different opinions about the family to make a good and useful family policy. Since, Mr Federal Minister, you have proved that you are doing this very well. I thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! A lot is being discussed in Austria, and there are great hopes in the EU Presidency. In view of this EU Presidency, I call on a family minister to make a special effort to set up a European initiative in the face of the terrifying violence of young people. It is not only national, it must be done in the media at European level, but it must be done against violence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, Minister of State: Family policy needs a goal. Our objective, the objective of the Austrian People's Party, must continue to be: The first words to start speaking to infants should still be "Mama" and "Papa" or "Father" and "Mother". Replacement facilities only come in second place. – This goal must also be pursued in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4192	Mrs Aumayr has the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4213	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to address you as the Minister for the Environment: Unfortunately, God is so that you have little power. 70 percent of the total environmental policy is done in Brussels, which is simply a fact. The EU accession was sold to us: We should be there because we could vote on it. Today we note that we are determined and we have little to say, and that we are very much left in the rain with our anti-atomic policy. The latest example is Mochovce: The EU does not care at all. We are members, but she says to Austria: You should solve the problem alone, or it is not a problem for the EU at all. It leaves us simple and simple with the Mochovce problem. I would like to address another issue, although I am not in the committee concerned. Some of my previous speakers have also mentioned this. It is also very important to me personally and as a mother of two children that we resolve or meet the problems our young people are facing. I am of the opinion that we should all, not just politics, politics alone, not at all, but society in general, have to deal with and have to deal with the problems of young people as they have never been in danger. The number of violent crimes between 18 and 20 years of age has increased by 200 percent since 1984. Youth unemployment is increasing dramatically, and more than three quarters of all under 30s see their future more gloomy. 75 percent of the under 30s see their future gloomy. Many youths increasingly behave apathically or maintain a certain elbow mentality. What a society of the future can look like can already be seen in some school yards or in the hardcore department of videotheques. There are 13-year-old dealers; 15- to 16-year-olds shoot a Trafikantin. Federal Minister for Youth! I do not make you responsible for this development. On the contrary: As a father of five children, I know that youth is certainly at your heart. I therefore urge you to take advantage of all the opportunities you have, in schools, in the parents – especially with parents! – to become active with information. For children who are neglected, so to speak, who are left to the TV, who are constantly exposed to disputes that are perceived as "disgusting", the future will be taken. All of a sudden, they stop being children – some with ten, some with 12 years of age. Then they try drugs, then the alcohol comes, then the cigarette comes, and they start hating. From their despair, they then take courage – courage to hurt others, just as they have been hurt. Of course, they hurt themselves the most. But they don't have a future anymore. They want what they didn't get, and then they take it. They teach the fear of others, just as they feared themselves as children: from being alone, from beatings, from disdain. Federal Minister! It's getting more and more. These kids beat back, but we must be clear: You didn't start! Federal Minister! I urge you to devote your very special attention to children and young people! You are the most precious of society!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4267	The Minister has now made a statement on the matter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4289	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As I was last referred to in this debate by you, Mrs Aumayr, as a Minister of Youth: Let me assure you that the objectives you have expressed are first of all mine and, secondly, certainly also those of all the groups of the House. Just because I see family policy primarily from the point of view of the child's well-being – all of this is good family policy, which ultimately benefits our children – I mean that at least these goals will be found to be good here and on a broad basis. That is not to say, however, that all of what you have mentioned – young people get into the danger of drugs, of sects, of crime, and of nicotine and alcohol addiction are nothing but drug abuse – in Austria and will not have any in the future. But at least we want to fight it, and we want to keep the rates as low as possible. In addition, I believe that we can see ourselves quite well in international comparison. A little more pragmatic is my answer to you, Mr Graf. You are, I believe, also youth spokespersons of the Liberal Group. I know the Bundesjugendring quite well, you can believe that. I even know so much to be able to tell you that the Ring of Freedom Youth also receives funding from the Federal Government. It is true, however, that this does not happen within the Federal Youth Plan. It is not in my sovereignty – I am not the supervisory authority of the Federal Youth Council, there is no such one – that a decision on the board was taken last 1992 that the reception of the Freedom Youth ring was largely rejected by a majority. I do not think it is beneficial if a youth organization of a group represented in Parliament is not a member, but the others are. But that is my personal opinion, and this was obviously not the opinion of the decisive officials of the Bundesjugendring in 1992. However, I can tell you that the funds are no longer managed and disbursed as they have been for years, if not decades. I have stopped the pure proportion, the exact payment of the amounts not only to red and black, but also to all the other organizations represented in the Bundesjugendring – these are church and other organizations, for example from the nature reserve. In agreement with the young people – and I am particularly proud of this – I have achieved that, in a multi-step procedure, an ever-increasing proportion of this funding needs to be handled through submitted projects, i.e. through quality. Thus, the rigid distribution in the sense of "On the Schilling exactly gets an organization sound as much money a year" will soon belong to the past. Those who have the better projects and do better youth work should get more resources. This is to be the principle, and we are on our way there, honourable Mr Graf. Since I have already said in my previous debate that, after the opinion of Mrs Moser, I am going to comment on nuclear policy, I would like to return to the point, ladies and gentlemen, that I should like to make. Although Mrs Moser of the Greens is now no longer here and is not on the list of speakers, I would like to say briefly something about this important issue. Mr Wabl has not only encouraged the public to give their views on this issue. [[Abg. Aumayr: The Greens are not here!]] This is certainly a very supportive thing when it develops, because I think that a clear signal from our people at this stage can be helpful. He has also, as has been the case with Mrs Langthaler, indirectly, on the fundamental point of view that nuclear power plants are in principle bad. He criticised the German government's criticism that the German Government's current anti-atomic policy – to demand a maximum of security, but realistic enough to endure the ans-nets of a nuclear power plant in our neighborhood – would be wrong and that under these conditions, Zwentendorf could have gone into operation. Mr Wabl! That's a hell of a thing! In 1978, we Austrians made a very clear statement about not letting Zwentendorf go into operation and not pursuing nuclear power in our country. On the other hand, we also have to confess to the EU Treaty for good reason, in the double sense of the word, that it is the sovereignty of every EU Member State to choose its form of energy freely. In the double sense, because that means to us: We can do nothing about nuclear power, and the European Union has nothing to do with it. But that also means: It applies to other EU Member States that, if they believe they can have nuclear power plants, no rules can be made on this matter from our side. In my view, what impact this has on potential Member States that are now approaching the European Union is clear. That is why I think this is the right thing – not only for a few weeks, but for many years, I have often been in the Committee on the Environment and above all I have been criticized by the Green Group: It is and remains our goal to become nuclear power-free in our neighbourhood, in Central Europe. But this is a medium to long-term objective. We must be realistic. Let us look at what has not happened in Chernobyl since the accident in 1986, that is, for 12 years! – We therefore remain on the ground of reality with this medium to long-term objective. The second objective must therefore be to ensure that what is going on in relation to nuclear power around us is as safe as possible and to comply with the standard safety standards in Europe. The question that we are now referring to Mochovce is so loud and clear. Federal Chancellor Klima has agreed with Mr Me#iar from Slovakia in November last year a second local eyelet under Austrian expert leadership. I myself raised my voice in February – after hearing from the expert side that Mochovce is threatening to be put on the net – and this is related to the Council of Ministers. I have noted that the experts have said: The later this walkdown takes place, the better it is, because you can see more then. All of this is still going on schedule. Only when, from our point of view or from the point of view of our experts, decisive documents were not submitted and decisive questions could not be answered did the escalation occur in the form of the present situation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can inform you that in the last few days I have become active in three ways. On the one hand, despite other pressures – you know what I am talking about – the German Minister for the Environment, Merkel has assured me two things: on the one hand, that our Austrian experts can contact the experts of the German Gesellschaft für Reaktorsicherheit immediately. This is therefore relevant because the so-called Risk Audit study, on the basis of which German financial resources for the completion of Mochovce have been prepared by German authorities, namely experts from the Gesellschaft für Reaktorsicherheit. These are the famous 87 safety standards, of which a representative of the Gesellschaft für Reaktorsicherheit said yesterday in the "ZiB 2" that from his point of view some 50 or 55 requirements had been implemented. These contacts have already taken place and this flow of information has been established. I have been able to ensure, through my contacts with the French Cabinet and the French Minister for the Environment, that our experts can also come into contact with Framatome's experts. The completion of Mochovce was among other things a German-French joint project, Siemens and Framatome were involved. I have also been told by the German Minister Merkel once again that in 1996 the German Federal Government approved the guarantee for the Hermes credit – that is, if one wants to do so, the German control bank credit – for the completion of Mochovce – on the basis of the decision of the Slovak government in 1994 to take blocks 1 and 2 in Bohunice from the network when Mochovce goes to the network. This is an aspect that I think we should have in mind during these days. From my point of view, Mochovce's worse, but Bohunice's worse. This is an essential issue that we must turn to. There are decisions by the Slovak Government and clear statements we must make! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been confirmed a few days ago in a conversation with my Finnish colleague Pekka Haavisto that a type of WWR/4-40 reactor has been connected to the network in Finland – which is highly interesting – and that Finland has applied the same type of reactor as an EU Member State for the safety of this EU standard. On the basis of the Russian reactor, Finnish organizations – with the abbreviation IVO – have been assigned to ensure the safety of this reactor. By the way, one has existed on a containment, i.e. an all-encompassing reactor shell, and has no pressure reduction system there, as is the case in Mohovce. It will be very relevant for us now and, above all, in the future, to measure the safety standards applied in Mochovce – and hopefully will still be – also to the security arrangements that the EU member country of Finland has made in a reactor very similar or even the same type. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is also an up-to-date information of the House on nuclear policy from my point of view. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4342	Next speaker: Mr Lacner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4364	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this year, the coalition parties agreed on a new model of family support. Apart from the reason for the recast, I am fully satisfied with this reform, as it is now in place, because a one-to-one implementation of the findings of the Constitutional Court would not have been possible from my point of view. In addition, the Minister's contribution to the debate was that it was also a concern for him to go beyond this knowledge. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This reform – bringing more than 6 billion schillings in the first year and more than 12 billion schillings in the following years each – will give the families in Austria a very considerable share of social and distribution policy fair and desirable family support. That was the aim of this reform: Weaker incomes must be and will be supported more proportionately than the stronger incomes. This is because we have come a great deal closer to the objective of socially balanced family support. Ladies and gentlemen! However, from the point of view of the SPÖ, family support is not limited solely to these tax measures that I mention. Therefore, from my point of view, I would like to make one more important point of this package – it has already been mentioned several times today – now. It's about the kindergarten billions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The kindergarten billion – which will actually amount to 1.2 billion schilling – will contribute to creating a non-essential number of new, urgently needed childcare places. This will achieve another important step towards reconciling work and family. In my opinion, this reform can be seen and is also characterised by high acceptance by those concerned. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As always, time is far too short to actually discuss all relevant points only in an approach. I have therefore allowed myself to take only these two points out because, in my view, they give excellent examples of the promotion of children, young people and families by this Federal Government. That is why I will and my group will give this budget as one of the foundations of this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4407	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4428	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today I would like to turn to a special chapter in the family budget, namely the school book campaign. This is financed in full from the Family Allowance Fund. That is why it is necessary to show special economy, efficiency and efficiency, because every waste in the delivery of the Family Allowance Fund is about money, which ultimately goes down to families and reduces support for families. The Free School Book Action was introduced in 1972 in order to ensure, on the one hand, the annual full-time service with the necessary schoolbooks for the students, but on the other hand also for the purpose of compensating families financially and ensuring equal opportunities for all students. To date, as has been said, this action has been and will be financed from the family compensation fund. Every improper and wasteful handling within the fund means that less money is available for the families. In the course of the savings package in recent years, family allowances have been reduced, but the waste within the fund has not been observed and has not been stopped. I do not want to deal with the problem of free movement of students, although there is a great deal of difficulty there and the family compensation fund has been exploited for this. I want to stay with the school books today. After 26 years of free-school work, we are facing a result that, according to the Court of Auditors review, is becoming increasingly distant from the basic idea of the school book action. In the case of declining numbers of students, expenditure on school books has increased disproportionately. Federal Minister! In 1972 a schoolbook cost 45 S, last year the price was on average at 128 S. This means a price increase of more than 300 per cent, Minister of State! It must be said that the quality of today's school books with those of 26 years ago cannot be measured at all, because the books today are far less worth of the look and of the "quality of survival" than they were then. You probably followed the publishers' prices and did not resist them. The school's degree of care has fallen continuously from 100 percent to 76 percent this year. This means that families need to finance 24 percent of the newly acquired schoolbooks themselves. The cost of administration – this is blatant: although the action has repeatedly been repaired, the costs of handling and administration have increased annually – amounted to 310 million schilling in 1996. Federal Minister! 310 million schilling are a quarter of the total cost of the school book campaign! I know that you might argue, on the other hand, that we now have a new schoolbook action, which will take place next year. But I think that this new schoolbook action is also linked to a higher cost; in any case, the cost will be reworked. It must be said that it is perhaps easier to calculate the 10 percent retention from the 10 percent student limit, but, on the other hand, by the action of the returned books, it is much more to be paid overtime to the teachers than has been paid so far. This means that there has not been a thorough rethinking of the procedure for the supply of teaching equipment to pupils. It was, of course, much easier to ask the families with 10 per cent self-retained to cash out, Mr. Federal Minister, instead of starting and doing this as soon as possible. The budget targets are fulfilled, we are going to let go for a few years, because our system is so good – that is obviously your opinion. In fact, no new ideas have been developed, no thoughts have been made about the development, the exuberant diversity and thus the cost intensity in the field of school books, and one recognizes the desire not to deal with the publishers. These were already two or three years ago when the discussion about the Free School Book Action began to guide you or your predecessor to the fact that a 10 percent reduction in the books is absolutely unacceptable. I know, Minister of State, that you have achieved a cost reduction of 4.5 percent this year with the publishers. This means, on the one hand, that the school books are now 4.5% cheaper, but on the other hand, the State discount of the bookstores is removed. They have therefore only made a retransmission within the FLAF, but in no way relieves it. You have announced today that there will be a new schoolbook reform in five years, in which you want to change partly to a loan system. – It is quite clear to me why you want to do this in five years: They have entered into a contract with the Federal Chamber, according to which the current system should be maintained until 2003. If you then partially switch to a loan system with school libraries, this would entail a huge cost and space in schools. Mr Federal Minister, you forget that the current administrative costs, i.e. the costs reduced by the logistics of the school accountants, are not included in this amount of 310 million schilling at all. The loan system you are looking for for for 2004 or 2005 would therefore also increase the administrative burden for the costs currently incurred by the school book dealers with their logistics. I believe that the Free School Book Action should be reintroduced, but with fundamental changes. Of course, we need to develop new ideas and listen to the knowledge and experience of those people who have been dealing with it for 26 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The cost of the administrative burden of now 300 million schilling should be used to buy more school books, to ensure a 100% supply and to meet the basic idea of the Free School Book Action, namely to relieve the family financially and to ensure equal opportunities among students.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4504	The next speaker is Mr Schrefel. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Voluntarily you can't say!]] [[Abg. Involuntary!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Involuntary!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The environmental issues are a cross-sectional matter, whose implementation today affects almost all departments, but have been documented by the Federal Ministry of the Environment for many years. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The increase in resources for environmental protection mainly benefits the "national park" and "water conservation". For the national parks, 175 million schillings will be available in 1999, compared with 105 million schillings in the Federal estimates in 1997. ==References== In October 1997, the contract was signed between the state of Lower Austria and the Federal Government for a second Lower Austrian National Park, namely the Thaya Valley National Park. This has therefore been the third national park since May 1995 following the Donau-Auen and Kalkalpen national parks, which could be established in the term of Minister Bartenstein, which documents the active environmental policy of the government parties in the federal government and the countries under the leadership of the Austrian People's Party. Furthermore, so-called EU LIFE projects are being supported together with the EU. For the Rotwald-Dürrenstein project, a total of 62 million Schillings are provided by the EU, and the difference between the necessary 103 million Schillings is applied by the federal government and the countries. The preparatory work for another project, the Gesäuse National Park, is mainly carried by the state of Styria. Another focus of environmental policy is alternative energies. A new fund, a so-called eco-fund, was set up, which will be fed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment with 300 million schilling. In this area, Niederösterreich is the state number one with 5 000 hacking systems and 100 biomass remote systems. These funds can now, of course, build more plants. Especially worth mentioning is the area of wind turbines. 31 projects with an investment volume of 676 million Schilling have been submitted to the municipal credit, which is now financed and implemented by these projects. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Lower Austrian, I am very proud that yesterday a business company from St. Pölten, the company KWI, received the "Environment Oscar". This company has also carried out the pilot project for biomass energy in my community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that the path of cooperation between the environment and the economy will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an international leader in environmental protection expenditure and can cost around 2% of the gross domestic product to eliminate and avoid environmental loads. This is a very responsible way of dealing with the Austrian Federal Government, especially the ÖVP-led resorts, because it also ensures the future of our children in the environmental field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4620	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4650	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although a budget debate should be the reason to look forward, let me take a brief look back. I think it is important to see what happened last year in this world towards climate protection. In June of last year, we took part in the United Nations Special Conference in New York and came home with very mixed feelings, because we had to note that America – with a reduction potential of zero – is not ready to do much. The Kyoto Conference took place in November, and I believe, together with the majority of this House, that Kyoto was a success. In the days from 15 to 17. In June, one year after the conference in New York, the moment of truth is coming, as the Minister has already mentioned. This will show the extent to which the Kyoto Protocol can be implemented across the EU. There will be tough negotiations. Austria has a good starting point. Already in 1990, the year the basic data we are negotiating could be seen in our climate situation. In the last eight years, a number of improvements have been made. I'm just reminding you: The sulphur dioxide emission has been stabilised. Our starting data are also good for those countries that are so often referred to as a model: The CO2 emissions in Austria are 7.4 tonnes per head, while in Germany they amount to 10.8 tonnes and in Denmark, which is often quoted as 11.6 tonnes. Of course, with a good starting point, it will be more difficult to achieve improvements again. However, I believe that we should and must keep the Toronto target. Mr Minister, I support you in this way, but I feel that the accumulation of the "righteous ones" is getting smaller and more and more lobbyists are only more and more accepting the legally binding goals, but not the Toronto goal. In my opinion, the Toronto target is very much entitled, it can be implemented and financed. We have put in place good preparatory measures not only in Toronto, but also in Kyoto. The ACCC has worked satisfactorily, and the Interministerial Committee is in the process of exploiting and implementing these findings in EU law. The Wifo study has shown us that there are common possibilities. Minister! I urge that a group be set up to implement the countries in which they too are involved. I have little hope, and I also say this openly from this pult, that in the foreseeable future we will come to Article 15a contracts or similar contracts, so that the funds made available to the countries will also be used properly. In part, this is already happening in order to live up to the truth. In this group, the social partners and the local and urban authorities should be represented and implementing measures adopted and coordinated. Some of my previous speakers have already heard how it can and will go. The main wheel on which we have to turn is and remains the efficiency. The efficiency on all levels begins at the power plants with a combination of power-heating and goes through the use of district heating to the household with thermal insulation and – ecologically interesting – hot water preparation. Another point that we should not care about is the logistics of transport. We have data according to which truck traffic will increase by 300 percent due to the east opening in Austria, as you can hear. We must counter that, for example, financially through road pricing. However, it was also permitted to think about other means of transport in order to counter it. A vision is the expansion of the Marchfeld Canal not only for irrigation in agriculture, but also as a transport channel to Elbe and Oder. It would be an enrichment for the wine district and could affect transport costs in the ecological sense. This can be financed. Depending on what lobby, numbers between 15 billion and 53 billion schilling, as Mr Hofmann has said, are mentioned, but I have already heard of 200 billion schilling. That is, as I mean, unrealistic. I fully support your approach to achieve success by promoting 1.4 billion schilling a year. Mr. Federal Minister, one year after the Kyoto conference, the moment of truth will come in Argentina. You have a difficult task over the next six months, which I do not envy you, but for which I wish you every good in the interests of Austria and the European Union and offer the support of social democracy. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4711	Mr Stampler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4732	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the prosperity and development of a country can not only be measured by how well the population is – in other words, in terms of health, care and so on – but also by how much a government is willing to invest in environmental protection. Austria is a European model country, I would like to say. I would like to take the opportunity today to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for your tireless commitment at home and abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Inseparably linked to the protection of nature are environmental promotions. It is up to a country to create financial incentives for nature conservation and to promote initiatives at home and abroad. The 1999 estimate provides for over 4 billion Schilling for environmental promotions, which means an increase of about 40 percent compared to 1997. That's very remarkable. In addition to the water industry, I believe that the old load renovation is also an important factor. It should be noted that, since 1990, the amounts have increased continuously on the one hand. A total of almost 2 billion schillings have been taken since 1990. These funds were used to cover 85 percent of security and rehabilitation measures and 15 percent to carry out additional investigations on suspicious areas. ==References== In 1998 the Ministry of the Environment reported 28 147 waste disposals and old sites as suspected areas. 133 suspected areas were entered in the Old Load Atlas. Just a few words to promote: The amount of investment requested so far amounts to a total of 7.8 billion schilling, of which support guarantees have been made for security and rehabilitation measures at 68 old loads of at least 3.3 billion schilling. 1.1 billion schilling has been paid for ongoing measures. I believe it is important to invest in the environment. We must not compromise them, but we must make them available to future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4781	Mrs Konrad is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is incredibly generous from the SPÖ club!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4810	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome the fact that in future families will have more financial resources at their disposal. It is undoubtedly important for public-sector families to be financially supported, but we believe by the Socialist Group that money alone is too little. Money alone is not enough as a family promotion. In addition, from our point of view, there must be a social infrastructure that supports the co-existence of people in families. Beyond cash benefits, the infrastructure that benefits families needs to be further expanded, which makes it possible for people to secure their existence through work and to have children. Conversely, it must be possible to have children and still ensure their own existence and that of children through their work. From this perspective, childcare facilities are among the most important family policies. There has been a lot of progress in this area in recent times. The decision to provide federal resources for childcare has given an urgent boost to the development of childcare facilities. The high acceptance of this measure, which, as you may remember, was not so easy to enforce, proves the high need. My group therefore very much welcomes the fact that another 600 million Schillings will be spent next year on federal funds for the creation of further childcare places. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to this tangible measure, however, my group is still committed to labour market policy rules, which are designed to facilitate the compatibility of work and children for women and men. The right to part-time for parents with preschool children is one, I must say, already old family policy demands of my group, which would not burden the budget of the family ministry, which, however, needs the cooperation of employers and the economy and their willingness to be flexible and creative – something which, I believe, is currently quite unilaterally required by the workers. In this context, the Minister for Family Affairs must also represent the needs of the families of the economy in relation to them, he must call for this willingness to cooperate in the interests of the families, and must not let the economy and employers go of their responsibilities. The same applies to working time models that take account of family life. It is not just the private matter of two people whether family life can be satisfying. Internationally, there are already experiences with new flexible working time models – including managers – that are based on the family needs of women and men. By the way, we should make greater use of these experiences also in Austria. For example, urgent measures should be taken to enable men to take advantage of child care and to get more involved in family work, up to the partnership of care work. It is to the Minister for Justice that he has addressed this problem, and I am pleased that he has already made concrete proposals for first steps in the field of marriage and family law. As long as the shared responsibility of women and men for family work does not belong to the general level of consciousness, politicians – and, in part, politicians who, as they themselves believe, do well with the overburdened women – will continue to call primarily after more part-time offers for women, so that women can thus bring the double and triple burden on jobs/children/household into a hat. In contrast, we are pleading for the joint, partnership responsibility which does not impose any force on women or men in obsolete corsets. Only in this way does family become a habitat in which parents and children can develop and realize their dreams, desires and ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4879	Mr Wurmitzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e4900	Mr President. High house! As a result of the measures taken by the urban water industry in Austria, about 18,000 people have already found employment. As a result of the increase in funds by around 414 million Schilling next year, there will now be a total of 20 000 employees who will find employment through the measures of the urban water industry. This is the way Austria can continue the successes of the past, and we support our Environment Minister Dr. Bartenstein in continuing this path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The opposition parties have today submitted two requests to which I would like to make a brief comment. We will reject the Greens' request because it removes the funding for the waste water treatment measures from small communities. Mrs. Klubobfrau Petrovic! This means, for a small community, that it will no longer receive land use and will no longer be able to set up commercial initiatives, because there will be no development in the small communities without wastewater disposal. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not true!]] You need to know! – That is why we will reject your request. The Liberal Party too has today tabled a motion for a resolution which we cannot accept either. The reason for this is that the Federal Republic of Carinthia has not already exhausted its quota for wastewater treatment. No request from the Federal State of Carinthia has so far been rejected by the Waste Water Management Commission, but it was the opposite: The Austrian municipal credit in Vienna had to ask the federal state – the environmental representative Sickl, a member of the Freedom Party – to take advantage of the quota Carinthia and to submit applications accordingly. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Because the communities do not make the projects!]] That's the jumping point! You should not talk to the congregations now. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Don't clean yourself up at Mrs. Sickl!]] Yeah, that's it! It has been asked on several occasions to comply with this claim, and only now, only at the June meeting, will the federal state be able to use its quota for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5008	Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5029	Mr President. Minister! To the environmental budget: It is being increased from 3.9 to 4.6 billion schilling this year. The increase, as Mr Wurmitzer has already mentioned, mainly benefits the settlement water industry. We should, however, consider that these funds may also be reclassified for the treatment of waste water treatment plants, which I consider to be particularly important, namely the restoration of old loads. The budgetary resources for this are being increased again, but this is only a drop on the hot stone. More and more old loads would have to be rehabilitated urgently. The Federal Environment Agency has localized 80 000 suspect areas. The main problem, however, is that most have not even shown the risks to humans, animals and the environment. I believe that groundwater is particularly dangerous. We have wonderful, clean lakes and streams. So I think it's time to think about re-translating the resources from the water industry to the recovery of old loads. Minister! A subject that, as you know, keeps busy with me again and again is the Alpine Convention or high-ranking roads through the Alps. The Alemagna, for example, hangs like a damocles sword over East Tyrol. The fact that the Alpine transit is an intolerable burden on the population of the environment, I believe we need no longer speak, in which we agree. However, I consider the EU's line to avoid the ban on Sunday driving or to eliminate the ban on holidays at all and the stagnation to the traffic protocol. I do not want to fail to place this in this House, and I call on you to continue to represent your previously tough and clear position. I thank you in advance for this. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ellwall.]] A short while ago, on the environment and employment. In times of high unemployment, the environment is becoming more and more a luxury theme. However, I believe and I know with you that there are many areas of activity in the environment. Yet environmental professions do not necessarily prove to be "job-knüller", because in many areas already existing professions are only expanded. I am convinced, however, that measures in the field of environmental and nature protection promote employment. At present, over 45 000 people are already working in the eco-sector, and I know that you, Mr Minister, see strong impetus for employment in the eco-sector. I too hope that a wise environmental policy – for example, recycling or renewable energy – will ultimately not be a job killer, but a "job-knobler". I say goodbye for a short time now. I'll come back and talk about the family area. [[Rejoicing]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5077	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5098	High house! Mr President. Federal Minister! The debate by Mr Wurmitzer was once again one of his famous self-fallers – he has already delivered this in the House several times. [[Abg. Grabner: A Carinthian fight!]] He attacked Carinthia and Sickl County Councillor. I'm going to challenge his argument now exactly and in detail. First of all, the volume of funding could not be used entirely because Mrs Sickl was sumptuous, but because the municipalities were unable to bring in their projects in good time. Nevertheless, Mr Wurmitzer, the funding was able to do so because of the successful policy of Mrs. Landesratin Sickl, which is even confirmed by the Federal Minister somewhere – I had a conversation with him earlier! –, be increased within the shortest time, in three years, from 7 to 14 percent. [[Ironic cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. Grabner: He's not here!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: With this residue!]] – Mr Wurmitzer, listen carefully! As a Carinthian MP, you should actually know that. That is why I am submitting this request today because on 24 February we shall be voting in favour of it. A meeting of the Sanitary Water Advisory Council on June will take place, and our preliminary information states that 50 percent of the applications submitted by Carinthia do not have to be rejected, because – that is right, that is not wrong – the funding tranches will not be approved. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Please! You're very badly informed!]] That is why we are making this request today, and I therefore call on the Minister of State to intervene in the Advisory Council so that the residue that Carinthia has on this issue can be picked up. [[Abg. Grabner: Reichhold! Reichhold!]] Please, Mr Grabner. [[Abg. Grabner: You didn't have any right information at the Rosenstingl!]] Please, Rosenstingl has nothing to do with the Carinthian wastewater disposal, at most with the disposal of criminal politicians who have become criminal! That's why my appeal today. Mr Wurmitzer, I am going to observe today exactly how you are voting today. [[Abg. Wormitzer: I am in the Commission!]] If you want to vote for the interests of Carinthia, then support this request if you vote against the interests of Carinthia, then reject it. In any case, we will make your attitude to this issue very clear to the Carinthian population in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5260	Mr Ellmauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5282	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! According to a new study by the Chamber of Workers in Austria, 45 000 people are currently working in the environmental field. About half of these work in the private sector, 45 percent in the public sector. New approaches to energy policy could lead to additional employment effects. A future-oriented energy system based on domestic renewables and better energy efficiency would result in citizens’ expenditure on energy services remaining domestically and thus strengthening purchasing power here in the country. Imports of non-renewable energy sources, such as coal, gas, oil or nuclear power, remove the organic domestic energy sources such as wood. In the local forest, some 40 million cubic metres of forest wood have been unutilised in recent decades, with large employment potential in rural areas. Studies show that the use of wood alone could create thousands of new jobs. In addition to job creation, wood makes an important contribution in the fight against the greenhouse effect. Growing the trees removes the atmosphere CO2. To produce a cubic meter of wood, the tree separates 950 kilograms of CO2 from the air. If the wood is not used, the same amount of CO2 will be released when rotting in the forest. Mr. Federal Minister! I therefore urge you to continue to drive forward the positive developments you have already begun towards promoting renewable energy sources. A total of 300 million Schillings are available for the promotion of alternative energies in 1999. I would like this amount to be increased in 2000. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5324	The next item is the speech by Mr Müller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the comments made by Ing. I would like to ask the Commission if it is prepared to adopt a proposal for a Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States The current legislation provides for a time limit of up to 31 for municipalities with 2 000 to 15 000 inhabitants for the directive-compliant disposal of waste water. ==References== According to the Water Law Act, this period may be up to a maximum of five years by the head of state on the basis of the waste water framework concept, i.e. until 31. ==References====External links== However, the large problem area in the Federal Republic of Carinthia is the municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants, for which the current legislation provides for a period of up to 1998, which can also be extended by a maximum of five years, i.e. until 31. ==References== For me, it is not understandable why national law provides for a two-year shorter period for small communities, i.e. up to 2,000 inhabitants, than EU law for communities with more than 2,000 inhabitants. The inactivity of many of the municipalities concerned is based on the country's priority catalogue, which has been adapted to the financial possibilities of the federal government and the country, setting deadlines by 2015. It is unfortunate that this priority catalogue does not comply with the Water Law Act. The annual volume of construction in the waste water sector in Carinthia is about 1 billion Schilling, 500 million of which are federal funds. The realization of all outstanding projects will require at least 15 billion schilling. Therefore, I believe it is organisational, but also financially impossible to complete the public channel network in Carinthia by 2003. This date will be exceeded by about ten years at the current dosage. Mr. Reichhold – he's not in the hall – can't make it that easy and just put the blame on the league. Who in Carinthia is responsible for the environment and therefore also for these failures? – This is the liberal councillor Dr. Sickl. I miss the freedom of the state councillor that she takes care of additional financial resources. I am missing from the liberal councillor in Carinthia that she is working in knowledge of the problems of extending the time limits in water law. I also miss the freedom of the state councillor that she informs the people accordingly. A practical example: ==References== December of this year, the period outside the channel obligation to convert the facilities in biological installations approved by law into biological installations ends. In this area too, the liberal councillor is sumptuous. That is why I also urge that the deadlines be extended – I know that the Federal Minister for Water Law is responsible for the Molterer water law – but also to ensure the financial resources in accordance with the priority catalogue. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the family budget: At the same time, the formulation of family benefits is the measure of a successful family policy. Family benefits must not be considered in isolation. The families share part of the tasks with other institutions such as school, kindergarten. It is undisputed, however, that many of the private services provided within the family deserve social recognition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This family package will bring additional funding of over 12 billion Schilling to Austrian families alone next year. In the context of budget hearing, an expert has put the question whether we can afford to do so in space. I believe that the Austrian families are so valuable to us that we must do so in any case. In the negotiations, SPÖ was based on the basic principle of promoting especially young families and poorer families than before. The Family Package is a socially balanced mix of direct transfers, tax measures, insurance services, as well as property and infrastructure services. A study shows that little is played in the Austrian families. This feels at least a large part of the 10-year-old children. The need for personal affection in the form of shared time is increasingly neglected from the point of view of children; a fact that must give us thought. Family-oriented work is therefore a key concern of SPÖ in the future. In my opinion, the possibilities for family-friendly design of work have by far not been exhausted. I see that my speaking time is coming to an end, and I would just like to say the following: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With visionary ideas for the 21st century. At the end of the century, we must give families the means of development needed to ensure that children do not become a financial burden to families. The family package goes in a new direction: Families are of central importance and benefits provided by the family are socially accepted – they must also be paid accordingly. I believe that we are taking a big step forward with this family budget. We Social Democrats will therefore give our approval to this budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5425	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5446	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the environmental issue of drinking water protection and groundwater pollution: a topic that will accompany us more than ever in the future, an issue that will cause us enormous costs in the future. According to a study conducted by the Ministry of Health and Agriculture, no less than 56 percent of the Austrian groundwater areas would have to be declared as areas of rehabilitation, because the threshold of 45 milligrams of nitrate per litre had been exceeded for at least two years. In much of Austria, local groundwater can no longer be drunk untreated, and according to the forecasts of the Federal Environment Agency, the situation will not be degenerated in the future. Although the Water Law provides the possibility to define protected and protected areas – 178 such protected areas exist throughout Austria – but as you can see, this does not work everywhere. I should like to mention here that Styria and Salzburg are very exemplary in this regard. They actually have their own areas under control. But this works extremely badly in Burgenland and especially in Lower Austria. Lower Austria, for example, does not have a single ban on economic use and the use of pesticides. On the contrary: There are even 30 – thirty! – Derogations, ladies and gentlemen. This is a condition that cannot be taken away. There must be something to be done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The best law on water law does not help us if significant shortcomings are repeatedly identified in the implementation of protective measures. It is therefore necessary, Mr Federal Minister, to take further appropriate measures. I call three of the most important: First of all, it is a matter of limiting the over-injection of nitrogen to a great extent. Secondly, the development of the land protection concepts of the countries with all vehemence must be promoted. Thirdly, in areas where intensive farming is carried out, the long-term rehabilitation regulations must be adopted. This means, however, that the cooperation of your department, Mr Federal Minister, and the Ministry of Agriculture, and above all also cooperation with the countries, with the country leaders, must be strengthened in order to tackle the problem of groundwater protection and groundwater pollution in the long term. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 13.4 1
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5499	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer has provoked me to speak because he has spoken against Mr Wabl's request for a selective moratorium. Apparently he didn't read the word "selective" or he wanted to read it over. What we want is better support and better support for rural areas. To the address of the government parties: They still seem to be exploring that, first of all, the quality of water treatment in decentralized water treatment plants is generally higher and second, there are no pipe and maintenance problems. The problem of maintenance and density is very massive in the often kilometre-long canal strands led by hilly terrain. And there is also no problem with decentralised treatment plants of the mixture of hazardous and harmless wastewater. I come to a very last point, especially Mr Wurmitzer: I do not know how he can justify that households will be charged connection costs of well over 100 000 S per household. – Mr Wurmitzer! Connection costs of over 100 000 S are even at risk of existence for many Austrian families if there are subsidies. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Who pays this?]] Therefore, this selective moratorium, in the case of better sewage treatment, is above all also a protection in order not to exaggerate Austrian households with undue and ecologically pointless burdens. If you in a federal country facing a country election campaign, believe in paying for ecologically useless measures channel connecting costs of over 100 000 s, you will, I believe, also need a very high explanation in this forthcoming rural election campaign! [[Abg. Wormitzer: There is no such thing in Austria!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5586	The next speaker is Mrs Tegischer. Second word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5607	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the family chapter, I focus on youth. In my twelve-year practical experience as a social worker and youth caregiver, I have repeatedly experienced how our youth is increasingly exposed to higher demands due to the rapid social change. It is flooded by an insurmountable flood of information, drawn from the soot of consumer pressure, and is intended to qualify more and more in order to be able to stand on the labour market. Our youth, like us, is supposed to accept all the pressure and stress as everyday requirements. In addition, changed family structures and an increasing disinterest in traditional values as well as a trend towards individualization are included. In connection with the training, work and use of leisure, I am concerned that, due to the demands for increased mobility and flexibility, there will tend to be a youth of two speeds in the foreseeable future: One can do it, the other won't come along. I would like to take three areas out of the youth budget and, if you allow, consider them critical. The budget provides funding for EU projects such as "Youth for Europe" and "European Voluntary Service". I very much welcome this because I know that young people who are socially weaker and not so able to learn and have no such high educational level will be given the opportunity to get to know other countries, other mentalities and other languages, thus losing fear of new things and learning something for their future. I very much welcome this! Now to the Federal Youth Plan. In 1997, the distribution was made by a precise key according to a fixed system. In 1998/1999, organisations receive a third as basic support and two thirds as project support. This distribution key could create difficulties for smaller, but also larger, organisations that cannot rely on a growing infrastructure, as is often the case with EIA close to youth organisations. Organisations often have to fight for basic costs, fight for premises and personnel. It will be very difficult for them to submit projects, or it will be impossible for them at all. We all want our youth to be self-determined and self-responsible, and we must therefore offer them the necessary framework conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One important question for me is also the promotion between the Bundesjugendring and free institutions, such as the open youth centres, which are becoming more and more a catch-up network for young marginal groups. As far as I know, 61 million schillings are estimated for extra-school youth work. I would be interested to see to what extent the free carriers will be taken into account and what amount this will make up. The last and most important point for me: Most of you will agree with me that prevention and prevention must play a central role in positive life planning. However, prevention measures are only very low, my knowledge is 1 per cent. Prevention makes vulnerable young people strong so that they do not become addicted or violent at all or join a sect. Neither deterrence – you know that from the 1970s – nor pure material information achieves the desired success in youth consciousness formation. The action of the Federal Ministry was certainly well meant – I know it – but I do not think it will really achieve the efficiency we all want, because head knowledge is far from acting knowledge. I would therefore ask you to provide more financial resources for prevention projects. Prevention projects in kindergartens, schools and non-school institutions are very efficient, as young people and children in their surroundings can understand the different ways of life and in a creative, playful form recognize the consequences of destructive life planning and even develop problem-solving strategies that make them strong against addiction, violence, racism and sects. Today's youth doesn't want any bans, she doesn't want any commandments, she wants to have offers from us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5674	Mr Wurmitzer has reported on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5699	Mr President. High house! From this point of view, Mrs Petrovic has put forward the claim that the measures taken by the urban water industry mean that households have to pay more than 100 000 p.m. – This representation is wrong. According to the national legislation – I am against the state law of the Federal State of Carinthia – the maximum connection fee per 100 square meters of residential space is 35 000 p. They must therefore have an apartment of more than 300 square meters in order to pay a connection fee of more than 100 000 s.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5729	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5750	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the debate on environmental policy is going so smoothly is a sign that in recent years in our country there has been a really good policy for the environment and thus for humans and animals. However, it is also a sign that this environmental policy is the continuation of a continuous policy. Federal Minister! I see this like a bike. You have to step in again and again so that you can get a boost again. And since I am the last speaker in this field, I would like to return to a subject in environmental policy – also Mr Kopf will give me the right thing – which needs momentum, namely the Waste Management Act. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein speaks to the Abg. Header]] Federal Minister! On Tuesday, the mayor of Vienna, Michael Häupl, found that the current Federal Waste Management Act is actually a toothless law, that despite this law, the waste mountains grow and grow and various municipalities and countries get bigger and larger problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I'll give the mayor of Vienna a warrant. He is one of the most efficient environmental politicians in this country and really understands something about this business. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Who?]] Unfortunately, I didn't fully understand your call. But also where it is about thermal disposal... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Eight years the SPÖ needed until it...!]] The SPÖ has recently felt very unhappy in relation to the current waste management law. I don't think I can hold this here, either. I therefore believe that it is necessary to give the wheel a boost in this area. We must not rely on thermal disposal alone, although I think it is right that such a plant should be installed where there is no such plant. Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrians are world champions at the garbage separation. We are separating more and more, but still – I am returning to the said earlier – the garbage mountains are growing. I therefore believe that it is time, Mr Federal Minister and also Mr Kopf – Mr Federal Minister, I assume he will talk to you about the Federal Waste Management Act – to finally stop collecting plastic extra. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein continues to speak with the Abg. Header]] The separate collection of plastic should no longer be carried out in households, but it should be given to the rest of the household waste, so that it is disposed of thermally where there are thermal waste disposal plants. It doesn't make much sense to collect plastic, although we don't know where to go. I believe that this should be changed. Secondly, The Chamber of Labour criticises, in connection with the draft Federal Waste Management Act, the fact that waste is frequently caused by the frequency of inferior waste disposal plants abroad. I think that is also a point to be taken into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen! But what we should definitely do consistently – I think I agree with the Greens in this regard – is to introduce a system of pledges in this country, to a greater extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have to get away from the fact that there is always only one way to get rid of the fact that, in environmental policy, we are always looking only after industry, that we are giving it over and over again. [[New appeal to the SPÖ as well as to the Greens.]] Federal Minister! We need a pledge system to a greater extent! It has already improved a lot in this respect, but you have the opportunity – I believe that this is also your wish; I think you know it – to ensure that more is done for the environment. Another point in your draft, with regard to which there is still criticism, is that we also wish to have entered into the Waste Management Act, that there are more and in any case also legally appointed waste agents in the companies, that the companies have waste agents, and that, above all, training for young people as a waste agent is introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: On the occasion of the debate on the 1999 budget on the environment, Mr Bartenstein answered a question on hazardous waste in writing as follows: A mass potential of hazardous waste was identified in 1998, amounting to 760 000 tonnes per year. However, only a quantity of 655,000 tonnes per year has been reported to the waste database, so the Ministry of the Environment estimates that the difference is 105 000 tonnes. – That’s definitely too much! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This is a fifth of what was!]] This means that we must take more consistent measures in this respect in the future to get rid of this number too, because every tonne of hazardous waste that inspires somewhere in the open space is, in fact, a dangerous bomb for the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5845	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Second word. Time remaining: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5866	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Barmüller and Mr Langthaler, who have now received, unfortunately, very late, but also the other political groups, and which refers to the need to focus the issue of nuclear liability not only in Austria but also at European level. This is a suggestion made by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. If it is already the case that reactors are being put into operation in Slovakia, for example, although we know which safety risks are involved, then it would be only right and cheap if the liability rules also comply with these risks. You know that we have already decided in July 1997 a motion for a resolution of all five parties to this House who have referred to this issue, but to this day we have, for example, no nuclear liability law as a government proposal or as a request to be negotiated in the House. In this respect, there is a fairness on the part of the Federal Ministry of Justice. It is true, of course, that political negotiations are difficult. Therefore, I make the following request for reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution takes out passages which were adopted in July 1997 and which have now been adapted to the extent that the Atomic Liability Act was in place until 1. March of this year should be in the house. That is why the Federal Minister for Justice is asked to present such a draft without delay, and in particular the motion for a resolution aims to ensure that, within the framework of the EU Presidency, Austria will be able to respond to these issues at EU level, because in the end we will only be able to achieve a single rule of liability for the European area. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to this request. There is nothing to be done if a five-party application is to be made from this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e5942	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. No final word has been requested by Mr Special Rapporteur. We are therefore immediately entering the voting procedure, and I would ask that the seats be taken for this purpose. – I ask the staff to leave the courses between the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group XIII of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapters 18 and 19 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? This is not the case. That's why I'm doing this. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on selective moratorium for support (UFG) in the case of new rural applications. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold and comrades on increased dispensation of waste water treatment funding in Carinthia. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Barmüller, Ing. Langthaler and comrades on liability for operation and accidents in nuclear installations and for the transport of radioactive materials. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Advisory Group XI Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions (Government) Chapter 56: Other financing and investments Chapter 58: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, Text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan, vehicle plan and plan for data processing facilities
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6101	We are now entering the joint debate on the Advisory Group on XI, Finance, the Federal Estimate for the year 1999 and on the text of the Federal Finance Act and all investments as far as they have not yet been negotiated. There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mr Böhacker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6128	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! High house! The SPÖ delegate and workers' chamber power. Yesterday, referring to the suspected criminal Peter Rosenstingl, referring to a bankruptcy procedure of Klaus Kohlmayr, and referring to the largest fraud scandal in the Second Republic, the WEB-IMAG building fidelity scandal, a whole professional group, namely the professional group of economic loyals. Mr Maier. I strongly reject this flat-rate condemnation of the profession of economic fidelity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that there is "black sheep" in every professional group, under quotation marks, including those of economic fidelity. But, Mr Maier, perhaps look Once again, how many black sheep there are in the Chamber of Workers. There you will find many, with this "black" sheep not meant politically. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mr Maier. In your speech, you also made the improper attempt yesterday to undermine the bankruptcy procedure concerning the assets of Klaus Kohlmayr to the liberals. You, as Salzburger, should know that the company empire Klaus Kohlmayrs is to be assigned to the black half of the empire and not to the liberals. [[Abg. Aumayr: His name is Kohlmayr, there he can only be assigned to the ÖVP!]] They have also made the inaccurate attempt to subjugate the largest fraud scandal in the Second Republic, the WEB-IMG Bautrehand scandal in Salzburg, with 25 000 victims and a total of around 2 billion schillings. Either you have such a bad memory, or you want to push it away that this scandal is a major coalition scandal, a black and red scandal, but the founder of this empire was no lesser than the then city party observer of the ÖVP, Hans Zyla. [[Abg. Aumayr: First!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] The political consequences of this scandal of fraud have had two politicians to move: the then head of state Radlegger, SPÖ, and the then mayor of the state capital Salzburg Reschen, SPÖ. So, Mr Maier: Whoever sits in the glasshouse is not supposed to point his finger at the liberals. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] But now to the 1999 budget. – Already during the negotiations of the 1998 budget, experts, but also free movement, have made massive criticism of the fact that the consolidation of the budget is largely revenue-based and not expenditure-side. We have also seen in the 1998 budget that no measures are being taken to put an end to the increase in expenditure in order to reverse the trend, to bring about a change in trend. The same applies to the 1999 budget, Mr Federal Minister for Finance. Again, it is the revenue side that you are trying to achieve a consolidation of the budget in order to meet the Maastricht criteria, and not a reduction in the far too high government ratio. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This means that despite record revenue of around 700 billion schilling, a budget deficit of 70 billion shilling remains. That, Mr Federal Minister, is not a successful budgetary course! Federal Minister! The structural budget deficit has not been reduced, so it is still too high, which means that the budget deficit will explode again in the least economic counterwind. However, this enormous increase in revenue also means that Austria has the highest rate of tax and tax in the second Republic, according to EUROSTAT 45.7 percent. That is to say, every Austrian and every Austrian works statistically for almost half a year, only to pay taxes and taxes and social security contributions, and this, Mr Federal Minister, is an unreasonable tax policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Unbearable!]] Never – and I repeat – has the tax rate in the Second Republic been so high. The Austrians – whether employees or entrepreneurs – have never had to pay so many taxes and taxes. And the trend is rising. Not steeply rising, Minister of State. They do not make a tax policy à la Staribacher, which has failed with the " tax culprit", with the full taxation of holiday and Christmas money. You make this much more elegant, much more subtle, but still you get more and more into the pockets of Austrian taxpayers. They widen the basis of assessment. You'll cut the amount of free money. They're shortening depreciation possibilities. You suspend free amounts and and, and you always promise a collective reform. Only in a recent answer to the question did you inform us that you want to abolish tax exemptions and lower the tax rate. – The exceptions, the benefits have abolished you. However, you have not yet reduced the tax rate. And so, Minister of State, with this really unacceptable tax policy, you can only achieve one thing: They generate tax frustration, and this leads to tax avoidance. The only growth industry in Austria is the shadow economy. You can do that with your tax policy! Federal Minister! We therefore strongly call for a change in tax policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We Liberals urge you to put pressure on the Tax Reform Commission to finally put its proposals on the table. At the beginning of the year, you promised us that a result will be announced before the summer. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Not!]] Then it was, in September, Mr. Federal Minister. The chairman of the Tax Reform Commission said: Nothing goes at all before the end of the year! Federal Minister! In this way, you create such a legal uncertainty in the tax system that it is not reasonable for businesses to invest in Austria in the light of this state of tax policy, thus endangering existing jobs and preventing the creation of new jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We call for the immediate implementation of a wage and income tax reduction to finally achieve a relief from the cold progression in order to restore more money to the public in the wallet so that domestic consumption, domestic consumption, and thus new jobs are created. We liberties call for the removal of the unabsorbed profit so that entrepreneurs can create the corresponding equity, and we demand, Mr Federal Minister, the rapid implementation of the so-called Luxembourg model in order to combat undeclared work accordingly. But we also demand a reduction in tax bureaucracy. A recent "Economic Sheet" survey has shown that the abolition or reduction of tax bureaucracy among entrepreneurs has the highest priority. Federal Minister! However, we also expect you to work internationally, particularly in the field of VAT, to ensure that the country of origin principle is finally transposed into the country of origin principle. You yourself write in a recent answer to the question: The existing VAT system requires a high administrative burden for both financial management and companies and is also extremely vulnerable. – In this context, Mr Federal Minister, you need action at international level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! The 1999 budget also gives priority to fiscal fiscal consolidation, which we reject. There are no measures to reduce the structural budget deficit. We will therefore refuse to approve this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6258	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Maier reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6283	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, a Salzburg representative of the Freedom Party, claimed that I had defrauded an entire profession yesterday. - That's not right. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Excuse me!]] I have the record in front of me yesterday. It is true, rather, that in my speech I have found the following: "If one deals with the WEB procedure – I have the indictment document here – it is obvious that business loyals were significantly involved." – This is confirmed by the indictment. I also differentiated in detail – I quote –: "It is about increasing consumer safety, but it is also about increasing security for the serious law firms of business loyals and tax advisors. We should be committed to this." Second correction: Mr Böhacker has claimed that I would have moved the Kohlmayr case near the FPÖ. - That's not right. I just pointed out – and I quote from the Minutes – that: "I remember the Rosenstingl problem, and I remember the Kohlmayr case in Salzburg with a damage of 800 million Schilling." The FPÖ was thus not quoted in any way. But you're perfectly right: In the case of Rosenstingl, I should have quoted the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6321	The last sentence went beyond the actual correction. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Merchant. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6346	Mr President. Minister! Mr Böhacker, I believe that Mr Maier has already done right that he has not attacked and evaded a professional group as a whole. But I would like to invite you to come to the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers and look at what has nothing to do with auditors and business loyals, I say, in the field of accounting, what is happening in the field of former pyramid games, et cetera, et cetera. [[Abg. Böhacker: Completely d’accord! Completely right!]] Last year, we Socialists launched a very successful initiative, in the form of a legislative amendment to pyramid games and other charges, which are in principle sold in doorstep business. It's about this one. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] This legislative initiative will also limit a number of things. I mean, however, we have to take this issue even more, because it is far from all limited, and there is a great deal to be done in this sector of unreasonable claims. We in the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers are also very good for this area and very helpful for many, and we are very proud of that. I would therefore ask you not to vilify the Chamber of Labour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the budget. You, Mr Böhacker, have performed several numbering games, which should somehow show that the budget rate may not be successful. The fact is that the Federal Government's budget is a very successful course. First of all, the consolidation rate has continued, the consolidation objectives have been achieved. There is no doubt that. Secondly, as part of this successful budgetary and savings course in the 1999 budget, there was nevertheless room for new impetus. I only mention two: NAP with 1.5 billion schilling and the first stage of family promotion, which will of course also lead to increased purchasing power. Thirdly, this budgetary policy is also very credible, because, in view of the 1996 accounts and the results of the 1997 and 1998 budget implementation, we see that what Mr Edlinger has put forward as a budget is actually being observed. Fourthly, the economic framework data – see export success, see: less than half the unemployment rate of the other EU countries – are very successful. And with regard to one thing, we probably share the objectives – you call this a criticism, I as a goal – that the consolidation course must be continued in order in particular to increase the scope for future economic fluctuations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of "more margin": I believe that we must, above all, be able to limit the tax losses caused by undeclared work and by transactions without evidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Chamber of Labour estimates that this is a volume of 30 billion schillings, which comes from blackwork and shops without evidence. We must try to implement this 30 billion schilling at least in part for the budget. A very special focus must be placed on combating undeclared work in this context. This is not only about tax revenue and social taxes, but also about the labour market, which is becoming disordered, and about a labour market that is constantly suffering from wage dumping due to undeclared work. It is not about the individual mason who may use a window in the framework of the neighbourhood aid, but in principle it is about organized black work by individual companies. There must therefore be cooperation between the authorities, and in particular the Financial Office and the financial authorities must play a special role. It must be perfectly clear to us: There, where black work is, is also black money. Where black money is, it's also tax evasion. Therefore, the issue of "black work" is in particular also a topic for the tax authorities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The wage tax reached a record level of 198 billion schilling in 1999 as compared to other tax types, as measured by the tax rate et cetera. It must therefore be the objective of tax reform 2000 in addition to the relief of the labour factor in general, in particular, to reform or reduce wage tax. This objective has several important reasons. First of all, we know from the course of the economic cycle that exports are developing very well, that investment is also developing very well and that private consumption is developing slightly weaker and slightly lower average, albeit as a result of individual impulses. From this point of view, it is therefore the wage tax reform, the first priority being the tax relief from the wage tax. Mr Peter will certainly speak on behalf of the European Parliament. He always says – and rightly –: Not the state creates jobs, not the businessman, but at the end of the day, the consumer creates jobs through its demand. The conclusion that must be drawn from it is that wage tax must also be the highest priority for an entrepreneurship representative. With lower wage tax and increased purchasing power, the economy will ultimately become massive and sustainable. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you want to split the wage and income tax?]] Wage tax reform must also be seen from the point of view of distribution justice. I just want to raise one thought at this point. With regard to the consolidation package, the first and second savings package, the workers have fulfilled everything on the spot. However, in the field of business charges, there are some things that are still outstanding, for example truck-road pricing, for example, minimum-coal, for example, the renewed tax-privileged formation of reserves, provisions for anniversary payments. All in all, this represents a total of 3.5 to 4 billion schilling, which has not come out of this area. I believe that this must, of course, be taken into account in the next tax reform and that this 4 billion schilling must be a sort of credit to the taxpayers. My last point: Tax harmonisation. If we want to relieve the labour factor, if we want improvements to be made via the wage tax, then we need to limit the possibility of tax relief, the eternal playing-out of a taxable person against the other, then the possibility of using tax havens must be used. I therefore believe that tax harmonisation in particular is a very essential point. The Minister has given this point the highest priority in the context of the EU Presidency of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! One last point: the ÖIAG. We have been talking a lot about privatisation lately and also about the privatisation success of the ÖIAG. However, I believe that the ÖIAG should be seen more and more as a society which exercises long-term and structural and strategic ownership rights of the Republic. I believe that it is necessary to keep the shares of VA-Tech, VA-steel, OMV, Böhler-Uddeholm et cetera in the long term, and that ÖIAG must increasingly develop from a privatization company to a capital company that holds strategic ownership, which the Republic must also have. I believe that this is going all the way in this direction. We will probably decide before the summer to transfer the shares of the airport AG to ÖIAG. It should be noted from the outset that these shares are not then sold but that these shares will also be held in the long term. In this sense, ÖIAG should be seen more and more not as a privatisation agency, but as a society that holds and manages strategic property on behalf of the Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6424	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6445	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The lustlessness of the 1999 budget debate is absolutely out of place. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Now comes the preliminary climax!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Perhaps it can be surpassed by the statics of the 1999 budget. Federal Minister! I have repeatedly been able to congratulate you on how perfectly you have crafted this budget. However, I cannot critically point out that this budget really lacks any dynamic, reformatory approach. Federal Minister! I would like to say to you that selective perception if you are right to tell us on the one hand that you have achieved the Maastricht objective. That is true, and I also understand the coalition members who are happy about it. But I wonder why you're not Your budget is more and more clearly questioning why you do not ask yourself what is behind the forward-looking renovation, which commitments in this budget remain in the dark, which structural measures are not put, and above all why you do not ask yourself the question: What's next? - That's the 2000 budget. This budget you're presenting here is a budget without "browsel". They have brought it through Parliament's institutions without much noise, quite clumsy, almost clandestine. So they have made state-supporting peace in front of the EU Presidency. Agreed. I understand that too. It is the last budget of a Minister of Finance who, according to his own statements, will pass on a serious legacy to his successor, who will have to manage a budget 2000. Under the pressure of the Stability Pact, this coalition government cannot pass once again the sad budgetary truth I am going to explain to you. You pulled the lid again. Whether your successor belongs to your group or another? I'm not a light-seer, but I almost assume it's going to be the eighth Social Democratic Finance Minister. But what are the real figures of this budget, which you rarely mention in your selective perception, which you do not highlight and which we should debate here? The financial debt in 1999 is 1 615 billion schilling. This is not more than 200 000 S per capita. Children, groceries and even the Glatz heads included. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In 1999 alone, Minister of Finance, you owe 70 billion schillings or 70 000 million schillings more. That's 1 300 million schilling a week. I deliberately break this down, ladies and gentlemen, so as to make these orders aware so that we do not always just put the millions, billions, and later the trillions on our heads. All these new debts are entered in a real 3 percent growth. More growth can no longer be achieved in a mature economy without falling into a heavy inflation. At the same time, while you owe up by 1 300 million per week in real growth of 3 per cent, the Federal Government's investments have fallen almost half from 1990 to 1999, from 40 billion to 22 billion schilling. Research expenditure, i.e. investment in the "software" of the future, increased by one billion from 1995 to 1999, and economic support fell from 35 billion to 29 billion schilling. Federal Minister! The rest of the investments – that is what you are supposed to make debt for if you follow a monetaryist path – are the You no longer operate, you have outsourced. They have outsourced them to ASFINAG, the rail infrastructure company and HL-AG. There you have federal arrests that already exceed 100 billion schillings. And you know very well that the ASFINAG will no longer be able to cover the increasing expenditure with its revenue from 2001 onwards. You know equally well that Dr. Draxler, the head of the Austrian Federal Railways, has directed you that he will not be able to operate the user charges, the investments in the Schig and in HL-AG on his own. These are true obligations that you collect and that your successor will have to meet in the 2000 budget and in the following. They have assumed responsibility for export promotions. The export subsidies have a meaning, only: How many exports have you approved in Austria at the expense of the future, because you know exactly that these 515 billion, for which you are liable, will no longer be fully recovered, but only partially? How many of them are coming in? Has You're dealing with rating agencies on this question? Do you have an overview of what happens in this respect to the budgets of the next decade, century and millennium? They have also assumed liability over e-business, ÖIAG, housing funds, environmental funds, water management funds, railways and postal and other, and you have received more than 200 billion schilling administrative debts. Federal Minister! You do not have a total debt of 1,600 billion of your budget that you have, but you definitely have a total debt of over 2 500 billion schilling – and you know that, only your selective perception prevents you from saying it too. Some experts believe that they are already moving towards 3,000 billion schilling, above the level of gross domestic product. Federal Minister! They do so with the commitments of the federal government as this federal government always does with unemployment. Everyone here in the house knows that we have far more unemployed people than these 250 000 people who are unhappy because we have a high early retirement share because we have pensioners and so on and so on. You know exactly when you make a real international comparison, we have an unemployment that lies above Germany. You just have it – my compliment for it! – otherwise "parked" and supplied, and just as it is with the debts you have in the league. Federal Minister! They have entered into commitments of more than 2 500 billion schilling, that is, more than a GDP, of which you secretly declare Maastricht as the financial debt of the federal government to be 1 612 billion. The interest rate service is 97 billion schilling per year. This means, in turn, that every child and every adult, every grey and every grey woman in Austria must pay 12 000 s per head and every year taxes, only so that you can pay the interest. The net interest rate rate is higher than 20 percent. That is, you distribute annually from wage income to capital income – exactly what you, as a Social Democratic, do not want to do. Then why do you do it? Why go You continue this path of indebtedness, which necessarily means a redistribution away from wage income to capital income? You know that our problem is that capital is not equally distributed in Austria. On the contrary: It cumulates in the hands of a smaller part of the population, who likes to borrow money to the state, mouth-proof to get 5 percent for it. Mr Finanzminister! They have a real economic growth of 3 percent. You have 70 billion schilling additional government debt this year, and you have the highest tax and tax burden there ever was in the history of this Republic. Their calculations result in an increase in the tax and tax rate from 40.6 to 43.4 percent between 1990 and 1999. If this tax and tax ratio is calculated in accordance with EU and OECD criteria, it is even 45.7 percent. Of 100 S each, which are produced in Austria, you have 45,70 S in your hand, and yet come Despite 3 percent real economic growth, you do not end up with the money! All the international institutions tell you – whether it is the OECD or other studies – whether: You have no room to create in economic good times to counter in economic worse times. Mr Finanzminister! The wage tax alone – Mr Kaufmann pointed out – has almost doubled from 1990 to 1999, and only from 1995 to 1999, when you are responsible for social democracy, has it increased by almost 50 billion schilling. It is true, Mr Kaufmann, that private consumption is the problem of this Republic. Private consumption can be heated by higher net income of people, only: The higher net income, of course, has something to do with the tax burden, with the difference between gross and net income, and much more they have to do with the difference between labour costs and gross income. Our problem is – and I will not get tired of saying this again and again –: Our employees cost too much and earn too little. The only number really interested in entrepreneurs is labour costs. To whom he pays the labour costs, he can be a priori indifferent, but he prefers to give the money to his employees, not through detours, but as much as possible directly to them. In other words, private consumption can be fuelled by paying people more of the labour costs than net wages. Today this is a third. A third of the labour costs will be paid net in Austria every month! That's the problem in our country. Mr Finanzminister! The current account will also be important in the euro area, and as a high-ranking specialist you know that. Austria will become a euro region, a Europe region. And if you have 2% of GDP per annum, this means no more and no less than that 2% of Austrian purchasing power, Austrian national income flows to other European regions, because we have the current account deficit mainly with countries of the European Union. In other words, if you do not reduce this current account deficit, which will continue to exist in the euro area – no longer as a currency performance deficit, but as a regional deficit – you will lose 2 per cent of its purchasing power year after year. 43 billion schillings will be this year, 47 billion schillings since 1995. The external trade passive has contributed too little to this change, and it has been between 88 billion and 116 billion schilling over the last ten years and has thus remained quite the same. However, the travel balance has changed greatly. The travel surplus of 75 billion in 1992 fell to just over 14 billion Schilling in 1999. I don't understand one thing, Mr. Federal Minister: You're really talking about an export and technology offensive, you're really talking about Austria's economic location. Yes, why do you always mean the industrial location? Is there not also a service location in Austria that offers a much higher chance of employment than the industrial location? I expressly acknowledge the achievements of the Austrian industry. The achievements of the Austrian export industry, especially the industrial export industry, are grand, but why, in parallel, there is not a tourism offensive, a tourism offensive that brings exactly what we need: an increase in private consumption, the regional purchasing power, a high employment multiplier! Market opportunities in tourism are still intact, but they are significantly reduced by the cost of the service location. And the cost of the service site is defined in turn by the labour costs, which in service companies today account for between 30 and 50 percent of the total cost. That is to say, the 3 to 4 percent increase in labour costs, which have been decided upon by this coalition government for purely fiscal reasons in recent years, means an additional cost of 1.5 to 2 percent in these companies, which must be accommodated in the price. Federal Minister! I am convinced that with this static budget you will not be able to put yourself in the series of major budgets. Her rehabilitation success in 1999 is a burden success. You know, I just have to tell you, because your selective perception will not make you talk about it. You have increased the federal charges in your time, in which you bear the responsibility, from 1995 to 1999, from 345 billion schilling to 457 billion schilling. This is a plus of 112 billion or 32 percent. This means that, starting from the 1995 budget, you bear the responsibility for the budgets 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. This is a 32 percent increase in revenue. This revenue, of course, again, Mr Kaufmann, reduces personal and private consumption. That's the point: The higher the tax and tax rate, the less people remain than net income, the lower the private consumption and private demand, and the higher the government demand automatically. Their expenditure at the same time has also increased by 51 billion schilling. And that's the point. Your reorganisation of the budget, with which you brought us to Maastricht course and achieved accession to the euro, has reached you through higher taxes rather than cost reductions in the state apparatus. You do not give any answers, Mr Finanzminister, in any of your documents on the budget, what the future of the pension system should look like. OECD and Rürup point out that the "Reformerl", which the Coalition Government has decided – not even one sixth of therup was inside, if this may be considered as a measure – will work from 2003 onwards and beyond. The inexorable numbers of demography will be Getting your successors – not you, you will be retired then! The grant to the pension system of 70 billion Schilling continues to rise. It will explode in the long term, because if you increase pension contributions, we will again experience the same thing, Mr Kaufmann, that labour costs are rising and net wages are falling. But these exploding grants from the budget will not be able to afford your successors. The financing of infrastructure in Austria after 50 years of prosperity and construction is not complete. We still haven't finished the high-level road network. There are still gaps in the high-level road network – and that after 50 years of unbroken growth! It was ten years ago that we needed a modern railway infrastructure, that the railway infrastructure that the emperor left us would not be sufficient, with all the consequences of financing in the SchIG and in HL-AG. My colleague Kier once expressed this in a wonderful way: The data connections in Austria are a scarce asset. Either they are not present, or they are so expensive that they cannot be afforded. This significantly inhibits the economic location. You, Mr Federal Minister, have not yet found an answer to the question of financing for old-age rehabilitation. You don't know how you can win spaces to finance the education focus. Lifelong learning means spending up to two-thirds on initial education and at least one-third on training people in order to enable them to practice several occupations in a row in their professional life. Your research and technology offensive has been kept within the framework of a tax reform, and you have been more or less prejudiced by the funding of a tax reform. How do you, Mr Finanzminister, want to maintain an indirect level of taxation, which is up to 15 percent higher on individual products than, for example, in the neighbouring country of Bavaria or in Italy, in the internal market? Of course, every Austrian and every Austrian will go there, in the internal market, in the Schengen area, in the euro area, where they will get the products, with less indirect taxes, cheaper. The ecology of taxation is already degenerated in this House for the sake of words. The only thing that You have done it was that with the energy tax on electricity you have already predicted this ecologicalization, but not as a steering measure, but as a fiscal policy measure. Ecology of the tax system, Mr. Finanzminister, is down with labour costs, and only the amount to which you have reduced the labour costs can you save on energy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The greening of the tax system has therefore pre-empted you on the part of fiscal policy through the introduction of energy tax. And you have few successes, only small successes in reducing the federal personnel costs, with my concern to point to the quality of the Austrian administration's performance, but also to Mr Finanzminister, which costs this Austrian administration imposes on taxpayers. Federal Minister Edlinger! I assume that this is your last budget, a budget of the standstill at a time of change. You have achieved the goal of the euro, for which I congratulate you, but you have wallowed the future. We have the fourth highest budget deficit in Europe, France, Italy and Greece. There will be a lot of work on your successors to enable a new start and to pick up the reforms you have failed. Denmark and Holland have an almost balanced budget. We Liberals reject this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6510	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6531	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words on the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Peter. He knows I appreciate him as a successful entrepreneur, I also recognise that he has a solid foundation of economic knowledge. But, Mr Peter, if at the beginning of your speech you have criticized the 'lustlessness' of the budget debate – rightly – then I can only say: Their contribution to the debate was no help in reducing this lustlessness. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] In your contribution to the debate, there were a number of statements that I can quite agree with, such as the greening of the tax system, the relief of work, a number of things that are certainly also in my line. Only, in your entire debate, did you actually agree with the conventional scheme of a budget debate. And I think that's exactly what causes a certain senselessness. Their whole contribution to the debate was actually devoted to presenting only negative things. [[Abg. May. Peter: These were just facts, Mr. stupid!]] They have even led art to say with a critical undertone that the Minister of Finance has brought this budget over the stage quietly and objectively without any big talk. That's critical for you? Mr Finanzminister, I welcome the fact that you have brought a very decent budget over the stage, calmly, objectively and without ghettos. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We just need to look around in the world. Of course, each of us prefers a big throw, but politics is just the drilling of hard boards. Politics is the art of the possible. Of course, politics, as I often put it, does not necessarily mean that the best solution is to break through, but to those who find a majority in Parliament. That is to say, it is relatively easy to announce, Mr Peter, as an oppositionist here, that this or that would be right, beautiful and good. The daily hard work means being politically active, and this daily political craftsmanship is something different than swinging oppositional speeches, even though they are quite there and there characterized by economic expertise; I like to admit that. Minister! I have already said it, I think it is really gratifying that today we can discuss this budget in a quiet, objective atmosphere, to which events outside the budget policy have certainly contributed, and that we also decide this budget half a year earlier than usual budgets will be decided. I consider that the real drama, the stoppage of the clock and the like this one have been missing, to be extremely positive. I also see it as an advantage if we have a finance minister who understands his craftsmanship. I would not be honest – to join Mr Peter’s statements here – I would say that I would not be more sympathetic as far as the future is concerned, a Minister of Finance of my party. That wouldn't be honest. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: For example, the Günter stupid!]] But I have to say, as long as the EIA does not put it, I am quite satisfied with this Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are dealing with financial and budgetary policies just as many of us do in daily working life. I always say, Hardly a topic is cut off, five new challenges arise. And so is it: Today we decide on the 1999 budget, and we already have the new challenges on the table – Mr Peter, I agree with you – such as the challenge of contributing to the harmonisation of tax systems in the context of the EU Presidency. There are a number of things that we can solve only in a European way, for example, the question of remission of work, for example the question of ecologizing the tax system. And since, of course, Mr Finanzminister, you face an incredible challenge because you are during our presidency of the European Finance Ministers in the second half of the year. We wish you every success, and you have our full support when it comes to contributing to the harmonisation of European tax policy within the framework of the EU Presidency of Austria, including in the sense of employment policy and the economic location of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6606	Mr Dr. Van der Bellen. The rest of your club's speaking time is 16 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6627	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Dr. Stummful, it's all right: Of course, the opposition rarely honours the hard, hard work of the government parties and this undisputed drilling of hard boards. The saying is, I think, from Max Weber, isn't it? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Yes. It is not quite by chance that the opposition so rarely appreciates it. I will briefly explain why I also have my difficulties with this budget and with the 1998 budget, the current budget. I am not going to repeat once again what is going wrong with this 1999 budget. I believe that the mood is not there either, and I am speaking mainly to you, Dr. Stummvoll, and to the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So it's all involved!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – Well, of course, voluntary listeners are always invited, Mr. Cot. Even parts of my own group listen to this. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] Dr. Stumbling! It will be perhaps four or five years ago, I can remember that there was a hearing in the Committee on Budgets. At that time I was not a Member of Parliament, but I was a so-called expert and I had started my speech with the statement: So I admire everyone who knows this budget. I don't think anyone does it. – Then there was a heated debate. In particular, Mr Dr. stupidly blamed me for saying something like that, and so on. I then announced taking additional hours with Minister of Finance Lacina. He meant that it was kind of a tricky tax. At any rate, we could not really agree on the transparency of the budget at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Since then it has become even more complicated!]] Since then, it has become a lot more complicated. That's right, President Fischer. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's Sinowatz I: It's all very complicated!]] Yeah, but in the budget, it's very complicated. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's Sinowatz II!]] It's always complicated, it's clear. But why must it be so intrusive? I will give two or three examples. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So that the professors have a business!]] . I'm not, unfortunately, others might be a bit biter, but that's not really a business, Mr. Khol. This is not the area, maybe others. But let's take a look at this: National bank profits. The national bank's profit loss is estimated at 7.5 billion schilling in the 1998 budget, Chapter 5407. In the National Bank's Annual Report we read: 11.3 billion schilling – a small difference of 3.8 billion schilling. This has not yet been corrected in the 1998 Federal Estimate of Knowledge. Or: Company tax of the National Bank. We do not know how high the national bank's share of corporate tax revenue is, because this is not included in the budget. But the National Bank's Annual Report states: 3.9 billion in 1997, 7.2 billion Schilling in 1998 – another positive difference of 3.3 billion Schilling. Now, of course, first of all, you're wondering: Why is this not taken into account in the loss of profits, and secondly: Is that taken into account in corporate tax revenue? You don't know that as a layman. Only the expert of the Ministry of Finance knows that. So at the central bank alone, we have an additional 7.1 billion schilling for 1998, compared to 1997 and it is quite unclear whether this is taken into account in the budget or whether it is simmering somewhere. The Minister of Finance is certainly happy if he has an additional buffer, so to speak, an additional cushion of rest. It is only against the background of the unsecured funding of the National Action Plan for Employment, in the light of the fact that we do not and do not bring these ridiculous "technology billions" together, but always stay below, in the light of the fact that the labour market service has the greatest difficulties in financing the current budget year, and it is completely unclear how it will do so, in this context we are already wondering how much faith we can give to any item in the budget. The next point in this context is: The national bank's profits are simply recorded as revenue in our traditional administrative budget. That's all right. That's always the way it was. But it is not necessarily Maastricht-deficient. Mr Minister, you know that as well as I do, and there is a new EUROSTAT opinion of December 1997. And if, at least in the newspaper, what I'm going to expect is the high profits of the central bank due to valuation changes, then this part of the loss of profits is not deficient in the sense of Maastricht. Whether or not this presumption has already been built up or not, we do not know that because it is not in the budget. I would like to know, Mr Edlinger, that you will be speaking, I assume, to what extent these additional loss of profits from the central bank have been taken into account in the Maastricht deficit. This concerns the 1998 budget as well as the 1999 budget. I must already allow a little evil memory, Minister Edlinger. As long as it hasn't been since I was here and we had a little discussion about the booking of the tax credits of 15 billion schilling, and you said at that time: That's what we all do, why don't we? That's going to be Maastricht-compliant. I have said that it may be that they all do, but that it is Maastricht-compliant, I do not think until I see it black on white. Meanwhile we have it black on white: According to EUROSTAT, it is not Maastricht-compliant. Federal Minister! The Ministry of Finance has an interview with me in the "EconomicsBlatt" of 27. In May, with the statement that, in any case, the larger part of the money comes from the Austrian National Bank from the corporate tax revenue rather than from the profits. – That is unfair, that is obviously incorrect, because 11.3 billion for 1998 are still more than 7.2 billion schilling for 1998. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] In the Federal estimates for 1999, we see in Chapter 5407 the income loss of the central bank almost the same values as for 1998. That the values for 1998 are wrong, we now know what we do not know is whether they are correct for 1999. But now to the next bigger point, Mr Finance Minister, and I would like to make a small motion for a resolution. There are a lot of large, ambitious allocation projects that make sense in themselves: the SIG, the rail infrastructure company, the ÖBB, the post with all its changes, the ASFINAG and so on. But what about the medium-term to long-term return on the Federal budget? ==References== In May 1998, I read that the Master Plan for the Transport Network of the Future provides for investments for the railway of 230 billion Schilling. – Wonderfully, the greens naturally support the development of the rail, at least in relation to the development of the road. 230 billion to 2015, which means that after Adam Ries, investments per year amounting to around 14 billion schilling, the south-east team is still not included. So it could be more. Again: Wonderful, that is urgently necessary. The road will not be finished with the additional traffic that arises anyway. Just please, as an economist, I also have to ask: And how do we finance that? What do the revenues on this additional network look like? Who will bear the costs? The Federation, the ÖBB – or who? ==References====External links== May, read a similar article in the "Standard". This is only about the ÖBB, and only until 2010 is foreseen, and investment of 143 billion Schilling is the talk here, essentially, almost exclusively, of financing the Schig, the rail infrastructure financing company. The SchIG is well known to finance itself, on the one hand, through the remuneration it charges the ÖBB, on the other hand directly from the federal government. If the SIG takes too much into account for the refinancing of these loans, which it will take up here, the ÖBB will not be able to pay them. And when they pay it, they will not be competitive towards the street. We can't want to. So, sooner or later, the Federation comes back to the handcush. I would just like to know, Mr Federal Minister, how it will look over the next ten years, what ideas, objectives and concepts exist here, because otherwise, if there are not, I see for the budgets black from the turn of the millennium. In this context, I would like to make a very harmless motion for a resolution, on which you will certainly have nothing to do with it: [[Quoted print version removed]] We just want to know, Minister of Finance. Maybe you already have this in your house in the Himmelpfortgasse. In this case, it would be nice if the Members of this House would also be able to find out. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I say this with a somewhat ironic undertone. Why? – A few days ago I got the Austrian Convergence Programme, the continuation for the years 1997 to 2000, the Federal Ministry of Finance; it is dated 21. October 1997. . I can't remember being a Member of Parliament getting hold of this continuation of the Convergence Programme. The original convergence programme we got, the budget programme and the like, we got more, but I can't remember this paper from 21. ==References====External links== Perhaps the representatives of the government parties have received it, but I have received it from a journalist. And I think that's a bit strange! In this context, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you for information. You will have to present the next continuation of the convergence programme in the foreseeable future, i.e. the so-called stability programme, in 1998. As we all know, Austria has already deviated from the convergence programme presented at the time and has set its deficit targets for 1998 and 1999 somewhat less ambitious than planned at the time, which can be debated. When will this stability programme be available, Minister, and can you assure us that the Members of this House will also receive this paper at the time of sending to Brussels? In conclusion, Minister of State: I can still remember the statement of government and the debate on the 1998 budget. How often was the talk about "future": Work for the future, budgets for the future, provision for young people, qualification programmes here, qualification programmes there. Let's look at the corresponding budget figures. That's the last numbers I'm bothering you with. These are your figures, Mr. Federal Minister, which you mentioned in your budget speech. Six, seven years ago, universities were spent about the same amount as the state defense – a little more than for the army and the army administration. – Today the situation looks exactly the opposite: For the universities, 17 billion schilling is planned in the budget, almost 22 billion schilling for the state defense. I know such numbers are always to be enjoyed with caution. Within the science budget, there have been minor distributions and shifts, such as at the medical faculties, as I think I remember. In these data you will not find that, of course, no footnote or any other hint. But even if you take this into account, I must ask you: That's what you call future security? That's what you call provision for the youth? Instigating budget figures for years, especially at universities and research institutions, such as the FWF, the Research Fund, stagnating figures over years – this is for you education provision? There is no mention of a pick-up from, for example, the analog German institutions. But we always have a few more schillings to defend the state. You can stand to defend the country as you want, but: That future provision – and I quote you from your government statements – means something different for our youth than the tanks we are now buying in addition, which you will secretly think of as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6775	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Sigl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6799	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to focus briefly on chapters 52 and 53 of the 1999 proposal, public taxes and financial compensation, and to present some of the essential points from my point of view. In the financial chapter Public taxes are estimated gross income of around 681 billion schilling. Through transfers to the countries, communities and funds as well as to the European Union, around 457 billion shilling remains to the federal government. The tax rate, which has increased in recent years, will fall slightly this year and in the coming year, as the Ministry of Finance has only recently noted. Thus, a national tax rate of 43.4 percent of gross domestic product should be expected for 1998 and 1999. Following the successful consolidation of the budget and the achievement of the Maastricht criteria, Austria is in a phase of economic upturn, which can certainly be intensified by fiscal reform 2000. The tax reform is intended to pave the way for taxpayers, the economic location of Austria and the environment in the tax system. Particularly important projects are the cost-effective relief of work, the greening of the tax system and convergence compatibility. I would also like to say that the reform of family taxation in 1999 will have an impact on the scope and possibilities of tax reform 2000. After all, this advance to the 2000 tax reform will result in about two thirds of all Austrian households, in which around 5 million people live together, experiencing a significant tax relief in the coming year. I am also of the same opinion as the Federal Minister for Finance Rudolf Edlinger, who does not wish to assess the 2000 tax reform solely on the extent to which it entails tariff reductions, but on the extent to which it reorganises and simplifies structures, eliminates injustices and contributes to social balance. Austrian tax policy will therefore increasingly have a European dimension in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer to budget chapter 53, financial compensation. The Austrian financial compensation is dominated by the basic idea of the connected tax economy. Based on the financial compensatory provisions in force for 1999, the benefits and grants for the countries and communities amounting to 44.5 billion schilling and the revenue of 5.5 billion schilling are budgeted. In addition, this chapter carries out the implementation of the disaster fund, which has proved its need for many citizens due to the storms in the summer of 1997. As I was able to observe myself in my home district of St. Pölten, which in 1997 experienced the worst flood disaster for 80 years, this fund quickly and unbureaucratically helped the injured. At this point I should like to thank you very much. High house! I would ask you to approve the budget chapter in debate. Give the Federal Government the opportunity to continue to establish Austria in Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6854	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Nut trees. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e6875	Mr President. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! High house! Mr Peter referred to the fact that the budget debate is being held very "lostly". This may also be the case, but I prefer to place a certain resignation of the opposition, to repeatedly submit proposals and requests to the House again and again – including those which could easily come from the government parties in the text – which are then all rejected and not accepted. If you are used to taking very quick steps, this is of course a bit laborious, but that is the task of an opposition politician. Mr Kaufmann said that the consolidation objective had been achieved. However, the question must always be asked how it was achieved. It was reached on the revenue side, it was achieved through "creative accounting". The Minister of Finance is truly grateful because he has probably done the same as his 14 colleagues in the European Union. This consolidation goal was also achieved with tricks. I quote from the "parliamentary correspondence" Mr Ruttenstorfer, State Secretary, a point which has just been raised by Mr Deputies. Van der Bellen: "State Secretary Dr. Ruttensdorfer announced... that the Oesterreichische Nationalbank had actually distributed more schilling to the federal government due to a re-evaluation of the reserves than it had been estimated in the 1998 budget." So he admitted this fact. Then it goes on to say: "However, since currency differences are not a permanent effect, no tax reduction can be made on this basis." Mr President. High house! At the first reading of the 1999 budget, I criticised the fact that the 1999 budget represents a continuation of the 1998 budget and, of course, does not contain any approaches to structural changes. Mr Finanzminister! The answer to the written questions, the answers to the oral questions in the committees, these five-day discussions here in the House have not eroded this criticism. On the contrary: Details have made it clear that sustainable fiscal consolidation would require at least five basic measures: Firstly, an increase in the primary surplus in the budget. – This has not been done. Secondly, a halving of the structural deficit of about 2.5 percent now. Thirdly, a significant reduction in the net deficit to less than 1.9 percent of GDP in order to reduce the debt ratio. Fourthly, an amount to finance the national employment programme amounting to at least 4 billion schilling, for which no provision has been made in the budget. And fifthly, a change towards a medium-term or surplus-equivalent federal budget, which is created by the commitment of all EU Member States to fulfil the Stability Pact in a sustainable manner. Mr Van der Bellen has just asked this question. In addition, in the budget hearing, the experts have recommended that economic activity be stimulated by a reduction in effective tax rates. That is a demand that we repeatedly raise up liberals. But it was also criticized – I quote –: " Early retirement remains an unresolved problem, and the deregulation process in the electricity sector has only slowed down. The export and technology offensive... does not address the real causes of insufficient growth and the obstacles to increased labour use on a broad front." There are still a number of criticisms put forward by the experts in the budget hearings, which have not been taken into account even after these five days of discussion. The lack of these measures in the 1999 budget is therefore unfortunate, Minister of Finance, because the inflation rate and interest rates are low and because the economy has actually attracted higher exports. The fact that the single market is not satisfactory is a home-made problem and is due to the fact that, with your two savings packages, you have deprived Austrian citizens 147 billion schilling. That's 25 000 s per adult employee. This, of course, also caused a loss of purchasing power. Another evidence of the lack of structural changes is the current staff plan. In the Federal Government, you will have about 1 percent less public servants in 1999 compared to 1998. However, the Wifo expert Aigerer locates that the government could save 20 percent of the government. I would like to quote him briefly: “At present, a minister does not know how much money subordinated departments really need.” In many cases, up to 20 percent are unnecessary especially for staff and would be ‘dropped’. ... In its improvements, Aeginger is based on international data on public management. “There is no one in Austria.”” Ladies and gentlemen! The 21 per cent of public servants in the total number of employees employed in Austria – Germany has a quota of 15 per cent of public servants – also represents hidden unemployment. To reduce this share to 15 percent, however, would mean a reduction of about 28 percent. I understand that 20 percent fewer public servants on the labour market could not be accommodated immediately. But the problem is certainly not to get out of the world through inactivity. Mr Finanzminister! Do submit a study on possible personnel savings and, above all, also present studies on how to simplify the administrative procedures and, above all, to shorten their timing. For this is the main condition for saving staff costs in public administration and getting rid of Austria from the last place on the bureaucracy index. Minister! I understand that this must also be done in pre-arranged organizations, and that the staff costs and the timing of work in the countries and communities and also the collection of opinions, for example, will be affected by the collection of opinions at the Chambers. In the end, however, it is up to the legislation and the complexity of this legislation and how it can be implemented. In the following, I give you an example of how time and personnel costs have been extremely wasted. I should now also like to speak to Mr Kämmerer from the Federal Chamber of Commerce, but neither honourable Members nor Members are stupid here. I know they always have a little concern when I go to the speaker's desk and bring back an example of the shortcomings in the chambers, but I would like to do it again. It is about the registration of the trade "handicraft of the monument, facade and building cleaner limited to the activity of the staircase cleaner", a trade that does not require a certificate of qualification. It was restricted to the craftsmanship of the monument, facade and building cleaner on the 20th century. ==References====External links== The Magistrate received an opinion from the Chamber of Commerce, which had the following wording: The objective area of activity requires extensive knowledge of the materials to be cleaned, their properties, their decomposition and pollution mechanisms, knowledge of the chemical composition of the agents used et cetera. It should therefore be noted that the intended field of activity requires qualified craftsmanship, as this can only be achieved within the framework of a long-term education and practical training. The nationalization of the chemical industry therefore recommended to the magistrate to prohibit the trade exercise, which it also immediately informed of 28 March. In April 1995, the Commission adopted a report on the implementation of the common agricultural policy and on the reform of the common agricultural policy. The appeal brought on it was in turn rejected by the state government with the appeal to the opinion of the national authorities of the chemical industry. That was in July 1996. It was not until the end of the 12th century. In August 1996, where the trade was titled "simple room care according to the type of housewives", the practice of the trade could be started. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] So please, if this is not bureaucracy in pure culture, I don't know what bureaucracy is at all! In any case, the conclusion is: Duration: 18 months, scope: twelve papers including two opinions, costs: about 100 000 p. – And all this for the registration of a trade for staircase cleaning! In conclusion, however, the new trade regulation has not brought any improvement in this respect. [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Since you seem to want to leave the hall again, I assume that you feel addressed. In any case, the chamber reform remains as much announcing as the announcement of an increase in the research quota. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 10. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and ……]] You will be on a 24th-century broadcast. March means that the Austrian technology billions are bringing Austria to EU level. The Economic and Social Committee calls for access to the foreign exchange reserves of the National Bank after the euro has been stabilised. Then write: If you want to raise the Austrian research rate of 1.56 percent of the gross domestic product to the average of the EU or OECD of around 2.1 percent, about 13 billion schilling is necessary. Günter Stummvoll, the Secretary-General of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, advocated to journalists today that, if the euro had stabilized, these funds should be raised from the National Bank's foreign exchange reserves from 2002 or 2003. – As far as this issue is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: In five years!]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like In reality, the average is 2.4 percent. That means that instead of 13 billion schilling would actually require 20 billion schilling. The demand has been set by us for a very long time. What is the policy of announcing the year 2002 now to remove funds from the national bank's foreign exchange reserves? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You must also have longer-term prospects, not just short-term ones! You think only in terms of elections!]] We already have longer-term prospects. We have already asked for these longer-term prospects, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in 1994 and for four years nothing has been done at all. After your division, another four years go to the country. So you'll need eight years until you finally raise the research rate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is understandable that Arnold Schmidt, President of the Research Fund, said that the technology offensive was stuck in the mud of internal policy. – This is the mud that your policy has created! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Meisinger: Sand in gear!]] Federal Minister for Finance! One word on the tax rate: According to ÖSTAT, the tax rate increased from 44.8% in 1997 to 45.7% in 1998. However, the Ministry of Finance is talking about a "light decline". When asked about this discrepancy, it is explained that ÖSTAT served in the calculation of the European system of national accounts, while the Ministry of Finance speaks of a national tax rate. – I think it's possible to find out: While they want to belong to Europe and talk there, they do not compare themselves with the EU countries and want to use their own figures, which have probably been manipulated accordingly, to assess. I don't think that's how it's going! [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! Her consent to the proposed staff plan, which is actually only a continuation of 1998, or to the 1999 overall budget, is probably a clear confirmation of your reformist policy. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7004	The next speaker is Mr Rudolf Edlinger. Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7028	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a position on a number of positions. First: It seems to be in line with the course of parliamentary debates that arguments are being put forward again and again, and I therefore feel obliged to use some of the arguments I have put forward in various committees, in the budget hearing or perhaps here in plenary. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is the fate of this house!]] First of all, I would like to thank you for the form of discussion that I can quite accept. I take the full blame for the fact that, due to its precision, the budget was apparently not suitable for emotionalization. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also think this is a quality step in the debate and I am proud to be Minister of Finance of a country capable of looking relatively far into the future. We are the country in the European Union, which is the only country able to make a budget estimate for 1999 not only in May 1998, but also in order to decide, because I assume that this budget will be adopted today. I would like to thank the majority of the House for this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think it is quite legitimate to note criticism, that is the best thing about democracy. And if you're lucky, sometimes some critical remarks are also true. That is why I am quite prepared to address a few points. I do not think that I lack a certain degree of self-confidence, but I have never and never claimed that this budget is the best of all possibilities. It is, however, the optimal way of making this government possible. It is the optimal of the feasible due to the framework conditions we have found. It was also respected, as I mean, in the public and especially by many economic researchers, because we know what goal we have met with this budget. We must also consider the starting point we found in 1995 and what we wanted to achieve with budget consolidation. Of course, we wanted to achieve the Maastricht objectives, and we did. I am obviously so omnipresent to Mr Peter that he has already assessed my position for four years. I have only been a Minister of Finance for 15 months, but of course I have become one of the previous budgets, because I also have to be a guarantee of a certain continuity, and I also recognise that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to make it clear that one of the very essential objectives of fiscal consolidation, which was launched in 1996/97, was to get the budget deficit out of place at that time. If, in just two years, the reduction of the deficit was possible by half, without massive social policy or social escalation taking place – as was the case in other countries – then it speaks for the quality of the way, then it speaks for the quality of our system to also express differences of opinion – for example, on social security – and then it is an expression of a very civilized conflict-making culture and a great maturity of those representing the various social groups and of the political parties responsible for the budget. That is why I am very proud to be Minister of Finance in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is true that we still have a lot of tasks ahead of us. I believe that a certain visionary creativity is needed in politics. However, it must not be forgotten that this policy, which is designed not only to be developed but also to be realized, can only be done on the basis of a calculable budget and of the actual fiscal framework. This is ultimately the prerequisite for a creative and formative policy in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I have never left a doubt that I have seen the 1996 to 1999 phase as a budgetary unit, which was to initiate a social-politically sound and very successful consolidation in the first phase and to stabilise it in the second phase. It should be possible to create the opportunities necessary to address the structural problems that we have to address in 2000 with a tax reform, in order to be an active member of the Common European Monetary Area and to be able to deal with the opportunities and challenges it faces. When the discussion showed how large the scope for action of the tax reform 2000 will be, I said very clearly that it was not an exorbitant act. A tax reform is not only to be assessed by what quantity there are collective changes – although I consider them important – but also tax policy is a structural economic governance instrument. It's actually a shaping element. Tax policy is not only the instrument by which the Minister of Finance receives money for taxpayers, but it offers the opportunity to make changes where they are necessary in the light of international competition. Of course, we have to do this wisely and skillfully, because one thing is clear: Just stand down – as I often hear in tax discussions – to have ideas that we could reduce everything in tariffs, but to give no answers, which expenditure would then be reduced, is little productive. Expenditure cuts are often proposed only in those areas where reforms only have a very long-term impact. I do not care if someone says that the Austrian administration costs a lot of money, something has to be done here – and one has to say that a lot has already happened in this area – and the structure of our administration is that each change has a very medium-term impact on the budget. It is therefore not possible to reach scope by means of an administrative reform which is a budgetary one or two years later. And everyone who makes himself here knows that the administrative reform is being carried out, and everything would have been done. There must be a little more realistic and also a little more creative. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that the question of the harmonisation of European tax policy - and this has been addressed - is a very important area. I believe that in recent years in Europe something has been successful, which some considered impossible a few years ago, namely the budgets of at least 11 European states – just think about how these have completely broken down in 1994! - to bring into a certain convergence. It has been achieved by bringing about a very large internal disturbance, namely exchange rate irritation, in the effort to develop this European economic area into a strong, competitive one. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This will be past in the near future for a large area of European countries. Now, with exactly the same materiality, with the same wise consideration of the second irritation of the European market, namely unfair tax competition – but not only unfair but also fair tax competition! Unfair tax competition exists where one creates tax havens to lure away any investors. However, there is also fair competition. For example, it is not acceptable to note that there may be a country in Europe which receives 3 or 4 percent of its GDP from Union funds and is considering reducing corporate tax to 12 percent. This would be fair, but not very fair, tax competition if one considered the whole area as a single entity and if we wanted to see equal opportunities in all areas of this European Monetary and Economic Area. We must develop this competitiveness together in order to give Europe the conditions that make it so strong in the global economic competition of the future in its inner strength that these future challenges can exist. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One last comment: On the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, I do not wish to comment in detail on this very sensitive area, such as the distributed societies and their varying relevance to the budget proposals in the coming years. There is no question at all that there are certain problems to be seen and also to be dealt with. But I assume that we will also be able to do so. I will allow myself to answer this motion for a resolution in very detail and from my personal perspective, as I see these problems for the next ten years – that was the question. It will certainly be possible to discuss this very important, manageable question, namely the SIG, the ASFINAG, the PTA, the BTBG, the ÖIAG, also the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the possible use of reserves et cetera. I am quite willing and also very interested in not only presenting my view of things, but perhaps also reasonable thoughts that can also be born outside the coalition – sometimes this happens – to include in this discussion process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7096	The next speaker is Mr Fink. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7117	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Böhacker, you have called for an urgent reversal of tax policy in your contribution to the debate. You just forgot to say how you imagine this turnaround. Mr Böhacker! I think you know your own FPÖ proposal: Lower taxes, create jobs. They were involved in the emergence of this guiding request. I have read it very carefully and have to say: This application is a collection of general places; it is full of contradictions. I call on you to review your proposal for a directive. We will continue to consolidate the budget as before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I've already said it: The budget to be decided today will continue the successful consolidation course. And it has to be continued because we have to have a tax reform in 2000 and the Minister of Finance needs a certain margin of flexibility. It is also worth noting – and this is not done – that the tax and tax rate is more than 43 percent. It is unfortunately the highest in the history of the Second Republic. As a result of this 43 per cent tax and tax rate alone, the tax reform cannot be a structural reform, but it must be a real discharge. A major requirement for tax reform will be a significant reduction in wage tax. The Minister of Finance has said in his statement that there will not be much inside, even because of the family tax reform already carried out. I cannot say how high this net relief should be, but it will probably not be able to be below 10 billion schilling. If this amount were to be estimated at 15 billion schilling, then in 1999 we would return to the level of 1997 of 183 billion schilling. Since 1989, wage tax revenue has increased accordingly. In 1989 we had a wage tax of 89 billion schilling, in 1999 it will be about 198 billion schilling. This means that in ten years, wage tax revenue has increased by about 123 percent. Of course, it is not true that this increased revenue has been achieved only by increasing wages, but we have also contributed to it in politics – whether it was the structural adjustment law of 1996 or other things more. As a Member of Parliament, of course it hurts that the family home travel scheme has been changed in such a way that it is only possible to apply for the highest rate of penalty. This means, for an employee from my district, that he can claim about 45 000 s less advertising costs a year. There is also a change in advertising costs for driving activities. This means a corresponding burden on workers on the one hand – and on the other hand, a corresponding increase in wage tax revenue. The wage tax is, as it were, the main burden for the consolidation of the budget. In conclusion: A net relief of about 15 billion schillings, as I have called them, is therefore, in my opinion, a question of social justice and proves a measure of attention in the demands. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7177	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The speaking time is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7199	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have not become very smart from your announcement of how you intend to deal with the issue of exclusion, what we have to expect. But apart from the fact that you will certainly still tell me about it, I would have another question, and I hope you are smarter than I am. We now also decide to disseminate the Federal Ministry of Education and Art, and in the application for the integration of school statistics into the Federal Recherchezentrum it is on the subject of what will cost and what it will bring: The overall potential for savings cannot be quantified at present, but will achieve a significant degree. - Quote. If I translate this sentence, that means: We do not know anything, but we know that it will be very much. Since, Mr Federal Minister, there have been some examples of unsuccessful exclusions that we might perhaps be talking about, and since the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a completely different information about figures than they can be found here, I would like to see a little more clarity in the matter of exclusions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7232	The next speaker is Mrs Marianne Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7256	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Böhacker, if I have understood you correctly, you have said in your debate that the reduction in the budget deficit is too short for you. So I'd say, One can quickly consolidate a budget, but then one must also ask: Who hurts? Who does it hurt?, or you can consolidate a budget – even the experts can say that – with an eye-size. [[Abg. Böhacker: I quoted experts!]] I think that the budget, as it is now, is tolerable to all, or is in the consolidation phase, and that should be discussed. [[Abg. Böhacker: About revenue!]] No, not only about revenue, but also about expenditure has been rehabilitated. [[Abg. Böhacker: Two-thirds about revenue!]] They have also criticised the fact that tax policy is not reasonable for businesses. They said in the same breath, wage and income tax must be reduced immediately. I ask you: Who pays all this if we want to spread the loads evenly? [[Abg. Böhacker: I'll send you our tax concept! If you have time, I may invite you to read it!]] I think, Mr Böhacker, that budgetary consolidation, as it is now progressing, is good for the country of Austria, but is also good for the people who live in Austria because it brings the same burden distribution as possible. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is your view, not mine!]] Mr Nußbaumer meant – he also quoted an expert – that there were 20 percent savings in the administrative sector. At the same time, he admitted that one cannot do this immediately because this would put too much stress on the labour market. But he also accused the government of inactivity, and I think it can't be. The government is not inactive! It has only overlooked that there is a stagnation in the field of administration, with the exception of executive, internal, judicial, financial, customs and teaching sectors. I think that it is fair to mention this also if one says that the government is inactive. That's not true. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To my area, the active labour market policy, which I come from, I would like to say that for this year, in 1998, there are still 500 million schilling for the National Employment Action Plan, 500 million for next year, plus 1 billion schilling – and that must not be forgotten – of re-transmission possibilities. In addition, there is the possibility – of course, you must not overlook it, and I think that is the first time that it is – of the continuation or rescheduling capacity, i.e., no deterioration of the planned funds. This is particularly important in the area of safeguarding youth training. Mr Van der Bellen said that he considered the NAP's financing to be unsecured. – He is not here now, but I would say, Mr Van der Bellen: Financing is narrow, but it is also a challenge, namely that labour market policies can now also be assessed for quality and effectiveness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] There are various measures that can be discussed and considered in this area. That is what I stand for, and I will not deny it, because I come from this area and, of course, I know a few things. But you always criticise these measures. Mr Peter said that the emphasis on education could not be met, and he did not see an approach to it in the Federal Finance Act either. – I would like to say to him: I think I see an approach in the field of education. However, education is – and I would like to see it – simply geared towards common will. At present, very many service providers are not yet ready to grant education to the service providers, and unfortunately God does not have the possibility that the worker himself can determine by means of education. Obviously, we didn't do it that far. I would like the employee to be able to use the educational course without the agreement of the service provider. Then we would certainly be a bit further in continuing vocational training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a request also to the government partner and to all of you here in the House: Joint determination and joint implementation is required for educational or continuing training. The Minister of Finance would have provided for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7369	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7390	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that it is both popular and populist to send officials, in particular financial officials, to the Pranger. - I don't want to do that. On the contrary: I would like to ask financial officials, our financial officials, at last before the curtain. Let us remember the time ten years ago when the tax collection service provided negative headlines and, in particular, events in the case of tax warrants in the media led to an unloving reputation for financial management. These maladministrations have been removed. There has been no negative headlines for financial officials for years, and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we consider the structural changes that have taken place within the financial management over the last ten years, we can actually express great praise to these officials. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us think of the electronic charge in general, of the employee's responsibility, which had to be carried out by the entrepreneur in the past and is now carried out by the financial management, we are thinking of the many services provided by the financial management! I am thinking, for example, of the advisory bodies for the various aid and applications which, as has been said, are being submitted to the financial offices. All these structural measures are accompanied by a 5 % reduction in personnel. Mr Federal Minister, I have the greatest understanding of the demands of the financial officials, and I would very much like you to make some of these savings available to the financial management officials. I would like this because we currently have such a constructive climate between taxpayers and financial management, as we have never had before, and I do not really want this climate to change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7448	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7469	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are gradually coming to the end of the budget debate, and it is therefore legitimate to look back on the course of this debate. I would like to point out that the second week of this debate is very different from the other weeks of the sitting. The discussions were controversial, which is legitimate for a democracy, but the style was beneficially different this week. One can be of different opinion about the reasons, but rhetorical abuses, as we have had to experience them over the years, have not occurred this time. I am particularly referring to the Members of this House on the right. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now bringing you a few passages from the Stenographical Protocol, passages which, in my view, are due to the fact that the style in this House has changed so much. ==References== On 1 March, Mr Oellinger stated that: Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Stadler, who has also not dealt with his rhetorical instruments in detail today, has spoken of a "Republic of the Nehmers" and thus means the Second Republic. - Maybe I don't want to express myself. This is a statement that speaks for itself. ==References== December 1994, Mr Hofmann – I am sorry to have to tell you that –: "Dear Mr President! Mr. Minister! Mr Wabl has once again turned his back on the FPÖ. It's nothing new. He has still not found out that the Freedom Party is not a party of the Nehmers, contrary to many others,..." [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Bravo!]] ==References== Mr Krüger: "Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiermaier has a speech by Mr Mag. ==References====External links== It was held here in this House on 1 February 1995. In this speech, MEP Stadler presented the Socialist Party as a ‘neighbour party’. Mr Kiermaier concluded that individual Members were referring to this name.' Member of the Krüger then said – and this, ladies and gentlemen, you must let yourself be broken on the tongue! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That was three years ago!]] – Mr Krüger, I would like to ask you to do this to your people! –: "I am correct in saying that this meant not individual Members, but the party as a whole." That is what you can do to your colleagues, Dr. Krüger. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That was three years ago, please!]] Faith Maybe we'll forget all of this? Do you think you can unpunishedly insult us? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (a bowing signifies) apologies!]] You have done this for years, Mr. Dr. Krüger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== On 1 March, Member of the Commission, Dr. Haider, reported: There are speakers, like Mrs Schmidt, who say that there must be such a fundamental solidarity. Yeah with who? – Deputy Mag. Stadler as a caller: With yourself! – Haider continues: Solidarity...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7552	Mr Kiermaier! ==References== May 1998, and we are with the Budget Group on Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7584	Yes, but it must be legitimate that such things should not simply be hidden. I seriously wonder if this was really good for all the parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you and all the officials of your home for making this budget, and I thank you for ensuring that this budget guarantees continuous development for our country. What I would like to mention: Given the forthcoming EU Presidency, the budget of all Member States will, of course, be very carefully considered. We can show this budget with pride, we can refer to a competent finance minister, but we can also point to a competent federal government – and I would also refer to colleagues from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the following is also to be said: If we have been following this budget debate, as the two political groups of the government parties have applauded each of the other's ministers, we can see: This testifies to an attitude – you can laugh at it quietly; if you like it, I am right; that is a sense of mind, Mr Doctor – which you, I believe, should also be for good. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer]] In any case, I am very happy with this budget, and I congratulate all the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance on this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7634	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7655	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1996, the Structural Adjustment Act abolished the possibility of tax-free leases and, at the same time, set a deadline until the end of 1998. This measure, which perhaps did not please many, undoubtedly also had a very positive effect, namely on employment in the construction industry. This made it possible to compensate for collapses in other areas of the construction industry. This measure has proved to be the support of the construction economy in Vienna in particular. However, it is now clear that, by the end of 1998, all tax-free reserves in the rental interest area could not be consumed, and I do not think it is good that they will end at the end of 1998. Federal Minister! From this point of view, I would therefore like to call on you to take advantage of the time and to provide for a transitional arrangement so that tax-free rents can still be used until the end of 1999, because this would have a very positive effect on the construction industry as well as on the maintenance of the good old house substance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What should not happen is that it is accompanied by other measures, such as new models rather than old tax-free rents. On the contrary: I believe that if we could extend the closure of old tax-free reserves by the end of 1999, we could also talk calmly about how a reasonable savings for conservation work in the old house sector will be possible for the future. I would therefore really like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to take advantage of the opportunity to secure, according to my estimate, some 3,000 to 5,000 jobs in the construction industry for 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7706	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7728	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I refer to Chapter 53, Financial Balance. It has already been pointed out that the Austrian financial compensation is, from the basic idea, a connected tax economy and is being carried as such – and this has been successful for many years. In the budget, around 44.5 billion Schillings are planned for services and grants to municipalities and countries and around 5.5 billion Schillings in revenue. This will require a security for the communities for the next year 1999 and will bring another milestone and a mosaic of the financial compensation agreed by 2001, Minister. However, it is not only a financial compensatory instrument, but also a trust instrument, a trust alliance between the federal, state and local authorities. In the near future, the financial compensation for 2001 and the municipalities, as well as the Republic and the countries, will face major challenges. The consultation mechanism on which much has been discussed will be decided before the summer. The Stability Pact cannot be seen separately from the consultation mechanism. We must continue to fulfil our tasks in the future, namely to be economical and yet to try to achieve this economy of budgets, with which we can meet the needs at all three levels – federal, national and local level – especially at local level. Tax reform 2000 was also addressed. Many colleagues – no matter if Peter, Kaufmann, stupid, Van der Bellen, Sigl and finally Fink – have made suggestions to this effect. In the discussions, it is also always heard that proposals are needed to make tax reforms so as to reduce or remove, as it were, the income of the communities, whether they are drinking or municipal taxes. But that cannot be the solution! I would like to make this clear as the voice of the community. Eye measure is in demand! Common responsibility is needed! Then we also have the opportunity to carry this successful stabilisation course together. If we act fairly and responsibly in the financial balance and in the tax reform, we must always remember that the foundation for countries and for our state is ultimately the community, which is not only autonomous and self-government based, but also needs sufficient financial resources. We will therefore be happy to agree to this approach. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7776	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7800	Mr. Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague, Mr Hermann Kröll, I would also like to focus briefly on the financial situation of the communities in the budget chapter. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that budgetary consolidation in the Federal Government is so successful that the budget deficit could be reduced accordingly, but to the same extent it is also important to ensure that the communities continue to have the financial opportunities to deal with their tasks. In addition to the proportions of tax income in which it is felt that they are going back, however, it is particularly important for the municipalities to have their own taxes. The three main pillars are the basic tax, the municipal tax and the drinking tax. If one of these three pillars is cut off, I believe that this will have a fatal impact on the communities. I therefore warn against abolishing the drinking tax or the municipal tax and, in return, raising the basic tax. I would like to give you an example, namely from the Ischgl community. The municipality of Ischgl is known worldwide for its beautiful ski resort. The municipality of Ischgl has revenue from beverage taxes of 21.8 million schilling; the basic tax is 3.1 million schilling. In other words, a replacement of the beverage tax with the basic tax would mean an increase of 700 percent. Such a scheme would mean meeting the house-keepers, of course also meeting the farmers and, last but not least, also the economic enterprises. – I mean, it certainly can't be! The local authorities urgently need these revenues in order to handle the annuities in order to carry out the tasks required by the law, but also to make investments in the communities which, of course, benefit tourism, but ultimately also the local economy, because the local authorities are particularly interested in the fact that the contracts remain in the region. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[16:06]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7850	I declare that I was just presented with the request to set up a committee of inquiry by Dr Petrovic, friends and friends, in order to examine the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the free exit of the perpetrators concerning the murder of the then chairman of DPK-I, Dr Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, and his two confidants. A debate on this has also been requested. This debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. The vote on the Committee of Inquiry will take place after the debate has been held.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7893	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the course of the budgetary deliberations, there was also a lot of talk about EU enlargement yesterday. As a Member of Parliament who lives and works in the EU border, I would like to make a few comments on this subject on future tax reform. It was said yesterday that EU funds should not only be used beyond, but also beyond the border. This is very, very important, especially for our border area. However, this assistance for the EU's external border is to be guaranteed not only by means of EU funds but also by means of national financial assistance. In the tax reform planned for the next time, I believe that, Mr Federal Minister, there should be some aid for self-help. Tax incentives are to be created for the many small and medium-sized enterprises in this border region. Policy alone does not create jobs, but policy creates the conditions for the economy to create jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to earn, then they will invest. If they can invest and earn, they will also secure jobs. If they can earn, they will also expand, and if they expand, they will create additional jobs. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Any businessman can then take advantage of the tax incentives and must not go a long bureaucratic way in order to perhaps at the end of the day to find that the directives for promoting its operations do not apply at all. Good fiscal measures can certainly help to reduce migration in these regions. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to take these proposals into account in the next tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7943	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e7964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a budget speaker of my group, I believe that today's opportunity to do so, particularly in connection with the budgetary debate and the budgetary deliberations in the committees, is to note a lot of critical, especially as I, as you know, will lay down my mandate at the end of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that I will find the right words, and I hope that you will admit to me that I feel as part of this plenary session and that as one of you, I do not wish to criticize anyone, nor do I wish to criticize anyone, but I simply believe that it is time to practice self-criticism in the positive sense of the word. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know - and in many discussions I have had with you - that this has been clearly confirmed - that there is a gap between our written constitution and the real constitution, which opens up in the trend and unfortunately does not close. I do not want to be a constitutional lawyer or a constitutional expert, and I may therefore see this somewhat simplified. However, I believe that we should consider whether we want such a gap between the written constitution and our real constitution, and that we should continue to think about what this gap can be fixed on. Is it perhaps our list voting right that we take more or less uncritically? Is it perhaps the lack of elements of a personal right that we wish for and that could improve this state? Is there a discrepancy between the free mandate and the force of clubs? Is there a discrepancy between what our Constitution wants and what is practiced in the areas of minority rights in this House? I believe that there is at least one need here to think about it and also to open an open and non-prejudicial discussion. Faith You're telling me: When I was praised here almost four years ago, I came to the National Council not only as a convinced democrat, but also as a supporter of a parliamentaryism borne by parties. I have to remind myself that after the first times, when all of this was new and the curiosity and learning were in the foreground, soon the feeling of incredulous astonishment took place: disbelief astounded at how otherwise this image of a parliamentaryism and the House, carried by parties, actually looks like. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how you feel about it – or whether you've been used to it in such a way that you don't want to think about it anymore. Perhaps you don't feel it any longer as a deficit, but think of the external picture, which is often the most prominent – I would call it – rule picture that this house provides. What determines it? – Through empty ranks, through speech-reading mandates, through collapse in small groups, through boredom. Ladies and gentlemen! All of us should become aware that we are harming both our written and our real constitution. The picture we transport outside is a pitiful one. I often think it's good that the people who chose us who sent us here don't get this picture served 1 : 1 that they don't know. They would rightly practice harsh criticism of our behavior. In addition to this outward appearance, I also believe that we have major deficits within our mechanisms: Where's the discussion? Where is the debate here in plenary or in committees? Where does the competition of arguments remain? Where, then, is the willingness to actually deal with the ideas of others and from the line of argumentation the best for a law to derive for a regulation? This, ladies and gentlemen, is a major deficit. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I believe that if we maintain this behaviour, it is another point in which we are harming both the written and the real constitution. I know. Whenever we have this debate within our club – and I, with my esteemed wife, boss – the argument comes: This could be misused, and that is not a purity of democracy. – It is all considered from a very ideal point of view. I therefore ask you, as I have often asked myself, the following: What is more, and how do we harm democracy: by allowing these conditions, finding themselves with them, or by really thinking about how we could change them? Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there will always be some, or unfortunately whole groups of members of this House, who interpret the written constitution and the real constitution as they would like it to be, who believe it is right to be destructive, who believe that the purpose is to sanctify the means and which will therefore always be potentially able and willing to misuse any regulation. That does not mean, however, that I agree with the view that it would not be possible, through a fundamental reform of the Rules of Procedure, to significantly improve the conditions in this House without being so naive as to assume that this would create a circle of friends. - That's not my idea either. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we do not resolve the question of the internal reform of Parliament, of parliamentarianism quickly and decisively, then we will continue to do so to reduce the damage and to reduce the reputation that we have had to register in recent years and months, as long as I have observed it. Federal Minister! At the end of my speech, I would also like to address you and your colleagues in the government. I would like to ask you the following – you know that I appreciate you –: Why are you proud that your budget is not suitable for emotionalising each other, as you have said? – In my opinion, it should emotionalize! There should be a discussion and a political debate should take place. I feel it is cynical, Mr Federal Minister, if you say from the government bank: I have tabled a budget which is so good that I can assume that it will be decided with great probability. Federal Minister! Also add with such statements It harms Parliamentaryism, and it is unfortunate that this is not an individual case. I would ask you to reconsider. It is good and also occasionally exhilarating when you bring a note into discussions that not only means pure serious, pure materiality, but also can loosen it up. That is what you are doing, but I ask you to remember that there are still people here in the house who listen carefully to you and weigh the words. What remains then should not be detrimental to Parliament and the enthusiasm to work here, but should support it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to thank all those who have been at my disposal as a interlocutor in these almost four years and who have debated some problem with me in happy hours, but also in very serious discussions with me. I would also like to apologize to those whom I may have hurt or offended from this pult or on other occasions. Finally, I would like to wish you the courage, the determination and the determination you will need in order not only to achieve a decent and better rules of procedure, but that you may come to an improved, refined, advanced, democratic constitution with minority rights for the House. I wish you all the best for the future too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8067	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then we come to the votes. We shall first vote on the guidance group XI of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This advisory group includes Chapters 50 to 56 and 58 of the Federal Proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this advisory group to give a sign. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. I propose that we vote immediately on the motions for resolutions tabled at this time of the debate. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Group on the submission of a report on budgetary disbursements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have tabled this motion for a resolution. Van der Bellen agrees to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the text of the Federal Finance Act and the title and receipt in 1100 of the Supplements to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the investments belonging to the Bundesfinanzgesetz, in so far as they have not already been voted on. This is the summary according to groups and chapters of Appendix I and Appendices Ia to Ic, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Special Reports in 1160 of the Supplements. Furthermore, the summary by groups and chapters of Appendix II, Appendix IIa, summary breakdown of the economic compensatory estimate, the Annex III, establishment plan as amended by the Committee report, the Appendix IV, the vehicle plan as amended by the Committee's report and Appendix V, the plan for the data processing system as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part of the proposal to a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the State budget for 1999, together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their approval to the 1999 budget at third reading, to give an indication of this. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. This adopted the 1999 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8175	We are now negotiating the request made by Mrs Madeleine Petrovic to set up a committee of inquiry on the responsibility of members of the Federal Government in connection with the Kurden murders. The application has now been distributed in writing, so the reading by a writer is not sufficient. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8229	We are going into the debate. The founder has a speaking time of 10 minutes; each political group, if desired, has 5 minutes each. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8256	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to clarify the political responsibility of members of the Federal Government who had enabled the Kurds to flee in 1989 was made several times in this House by the opposition. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the ÖVP: And rejected!]] – And by majority rejected. The lack of willingness to clarify the political responsibility for the fact that there was a reduction in the security of the embassy at the time, why suspected murderers have even been brought to the airport with police escorts, is obvious. A reconnaissance has not taken place to this day. There was also a urgent request on the part of the Liberal Forum in this causa. This urgent question has just as little clarified the background, namely: Was it a case of state emergency? Did the responsible institutions of the Republic of Austria have the right to fear, yes, fear that there may otherwise be greater harm? Or has one bowed to the powerful arm of Iran, has one bowed to the fact that economic orders may be lost? – This is a question of political responsibility. So was there any legitimate hesitation in the persecution of the Kurds or did there not have any legitimate reasons? In particular, the Austrian People's Party was said to reject such an investigation committee at the time, because this could also be an influence on the Federal Presidency election campaign. Well: This argument is probably no longer valid. I have already drawn your attention to the fact that we are going to make this request again. Even more interesting than the behaviour of the Austrian People's Party, which can no longer lead to the argument of "preliminary Federal Presidency election struggle", is however the voting behaviour of the Liberal Group. It is important to me today to clarify how the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which has shown various views on this subject in the past, will present itself here today. I would like to remind you that on 14 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the right to freedom of movement and freedom of movement. In May 1997, the executive club Stadler, with great vehemence, asked for information from the government parties, and he sued the political responsibility for the Enlightenment, and here said very loud from the speaker's desk that it was not possible to do so on the part of the government parties as if this were not an issue for the public. The same executive Klubobmann Mag. ==References====External links== On 4 April 1998, from the speaker's desk, quite different words were voted on. He has said that the scenario is now clear. With the Ghassemlou murder, you want to "adapt" the Federal President in order to salt him a re-candidacy. Ladies and gentlemen! We had a very serious debate on political responsibility in these days – including during the budgetary consultations – as a result of the current discussion on the so-called Causa Rosenstingl. Just as there is a political responsibility for the rulers not to wall – even if you are convinced that everything is correct, even then it is up to a parliamentary inquiry to be released – there is, in my opinion, also a political responsibility of the opposition, and that is the most immediate responsibility of opposition, namely, that there is warning and warning, where it considers that something is not being explained unjustly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it can only be signs of a serious opposition policy to remain an opinion – as long as the facts do not change. I have come to the impression from the behaviour of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party that their interest in information depends on what their interests in power are looking like at the moment. But that – and I have already said this sentence in public – would be proof that the Freeman has lost all kinds of serious opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8319	I call Mr Löschnak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8340	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say, in just a few sentences, that the Greens are asking for a committee of inquiry to be set up on the matter for years and days, we could already say, well-known Causa. Mrs Petrovic! I accept that you really want to speak profoundly, but then you have to do it. And I don't understand that They come out for the x-th time with a statement that is quite simply obsolete. In the meantime, please give the judgment of the Chamber Court Berlin, scope: 395 pages. [[The speaker keeps a folder up to date.]] If one makes the effort – and I have done this today – to read this judgment, then what was the starting point of your request's reasoning, namely that by failing to do so in Vienna, the deed in Berlin would have been made possible, can no longer be maintained, with no word, with no sentence. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Therefore, if you value the seriousness of the debate – for which I am – then please look at these 395 pages. And then at least come out with another reason, because otherwise you really can't debate these things. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8394	No one is reporting on this. – Please submit the word messages to the Bureau in good time! [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Mr President,...!]] Mrs Dr Schmidt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8423	Mr President. That was a spontaneous word. It was originally not my intention, but I did not want to leave it in the room that this report is sufficient. We all want to discuss this report, but believe that the right place for such a discussion is a committee of inquiry. That was Mr Petrovic's desire, and that is also the desire of our Liberals. If you want an appropriate debate on how you endorse it, please agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8454	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the vote on Mrs Petrovic's request to set up an investigation committee on this subject. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8490	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications 796/A to 801/A have been tabled. Question No 4482/J to 4507/J as well as a request by the honourable Member Mag. President of the National Council. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00125_d7e8514	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingldie's session is unpunishedly distant. I call the next meeting of the National Council immediately after this meeting, i.e. at 16.35 a.m. The 125. The vote will be taken at the next voting time.
