ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4626	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 109. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 106. Meeting of 21 and 22. January and 107th and 108th. Meeting of 22. In January 1998, Parliament's Directorate remained in a state of suspense and without opposition, and was therefore deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's sitting, MEPs are Mag. Chief, Aumayr, Achs, Dr. Mertel and Silhavy. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4663	Mr Bundeskanzler made a statement on a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the representation of members of the government as follows: The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Johann Farnleitner is represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Werner Fassleven, who is therefore also present in the current hour. I would like to welcome the President of the Swiss National Council, Mr Ernst Leuenberger, who, together with Parliament's Secretary-General, is attending Austria for an official visit. Mr President. Welcome to Vienna! [[General condolences.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4701	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: Employment Programme of the Federal Government The first speaker to speak was Mr Vergestnich. The first speaker's speaking time is 10 minutes. – Mr Vergestnich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4731	Mr President of the Swiss National Council! Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am happy to comment on the topic of the Austrian employment programme. It is a fact that over the last ten years the number of employees has increased with satisfaction. We are at the beginning of the fasting period, but this should not also be a fasting period for the 18 million unemployed in Europe, even for the 300,000 unemployed in Austria. [[Call to the liberals:310 000!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To make clear what dimension it is about: These are more people than the city of Graz has inhabitants. There are more than Linz and Klagenfurt have on residents! What must be thought of by an employee who knows the slogan of the economy "Only the economy creates jobs" when he receives the following letter from his employer: As you know, every year new apprentices are taken in and also trained. The company is thus much less dependent on health insurance and other charges. That is why we need to resolve the service relationship with you as an auxiliary mechanic. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly not the employment we need in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I see a first silver strip on the horizon in the EU employment programme. Now it is up to the national programmes to be drawn up, but also to implement the national programmes. Although Austria has a good position in the EU comparison – with 4.5 percent unemployment, we are behind Luxembourg with the lowest number of unemployed – I do not think there is any reason to reject it. Every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much, and most Austrians are afraid of unemployment. In this context, we often forget the loss of knowledge, which occurs in many companies in Austria because of the dismissal of workers and the elimination of a healthy stock of human capital. It is now about the development of the national employment programme. We call for clear positions and objectives to be achieved. A half-hearted action programme will not satisfy people who are afraid of a job or the unemployed who are seeking a job. A national action plan for employment must take account of those who have work as well as those who are looking for work. But he only becomes... – He is sent for review and thus stands for discussion. [[Abg. Oils: Is that it?]] However, a national action programme will only be successful if there are clearly defined and quantitative targets. I do not think we have to think of anything new here at all. We should rather take an example of the introduction of the euro. In this respect, politicians have set clear targets and set deadlines. A few days ago, it became clear that Austria met the stability criteria for the introduction of the euro. Therefore – and I am convinced of this – it must also be possible for us to reduce the unemployment rate from 4.5 percent to 3.5% over the next five years and also to create employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve this goal, we need a modern programme, a program that strengthens the purchasing power of the individual and thus boosts internal demand accordingly. In my opinion, only the Austrian social model will be disassemble recipes, as we now hear them again, such as the extension of working time, the reduction of holiday entitlements, the reduction of wages and the reduction of worker protection. You certainly do not create jobs with these models, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Why don't we get the report? Is that the democracy of social democracy?]] The problems in the labour market are not only solved by the fact that workers are constantly required to adapt to the workplace. Innovation and redistribution, but also other, new products are better alternatives. We need a general economic policy, which brings together economic research, which combines social, educational and tax policies, so as to ensure progress in the economic development of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Why does the "Wiener Zeitung" have this and we don't?]] From our point of view, ladies and gentlemen, the EU guidelines are far too short. National economic policy must be much broader in the preparation of the national employment programme. Infrastructural investment has been discussed often enough in this House, measures have also been taken, money is also available. What is missing is the concrete implementation of these infrastructure measures. [[Call to the Greens: When do we get the report?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will discuss the Semmering Tunnel, the Lainzer Tunnel, for so long until the railway passes Austria on the new routes. [[Abg. Wabl: We would also like to discuss!]] We will discuss genetic engineering in this House until it can no longer be economically useful in Austria. These are developments that I personally consider to be a wrong approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also convinced that the guarantee of strategic ownership of large Austrian companies must be a priority when it comes to location decisions, instead of trying, as it becomes visible there or there, to achieve rapid success because of foreign partnerships, which ultimately also shift the decision elsewhere. I know that it is an incentive when trade unionists and social democrats are talking about a value added tax, but this is also reflected in the European employment directives that we are thinking about new forms of income when it comes to reducing additional labour costs. It is not a question of reducing additional labour costs in such a way as to remove existing social security schemes, but of finding new sources of funding. For example, if we find a new source of funding for family support instead of today's wage-related taxes, then, I believe, the objective – maintaining social benefits and new funding – is feasible. But today they say: We have a too high pay-by-cost ratio, which has been abolished! What are additional wage costs? - 13th and 14th. Social security contributions, insurance contributions and other benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! I personally believe that both are feasible: To reduce additional labour costs, to reduce wage-related taxes and to find new forms of taxation, which it is also appropriate to ensure accordingly. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does the Federal Government do? That's the subject!]] In my opinion, however, the fight against black entrepreneurs is also a priority. It is not a question of many companies in Austria complying correctly with the provisions, while black entrepreneurs at the expense of the Community, at the expense of society... – Left or right, no matter where they are, politics must no longer take black entrepreneurship as a cavalier crime, but must set out concrete actions, actions as proposed by the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: (pointing to the ÖVP bank series) The black entrepreneurs are sitting there!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A new independence is absolutely to be promoted, but a new independence, which is ultimately aimed at promoting barber independence, I think is wrong. I think that it is equally wrong for family ministers to promote Bartenstein in a public declaration that it is time to create new jobs in Austria in the case of wages under the collective agreement. I wonder how one family minister on the one hand can say that families need decent income when he is on the other Page makes such demands into space. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is that also in the paper?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Where's the paper, Mr. Deputy?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The trade unions and the social democrats are often held back enough fear of new occupations. We are not afraid of new occupations, nor are we afraid of new activities. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Fear of Parliament apparently, fear of opposition!]] What we do not want are new activities under the conditions of yesterday. What we do not want are new activities under wage reduction and the abolition of social rules. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need new professions. Let's just think about Parliament's website: The webmaster who did this at the time would probably create a completely different website today. Individual positions of the various social partners can be used for the national employment programme. There are joint studies by the social partners, which also address the question of the reduction of working time. Even if the economic side likes to be kept silent and told, this is not a new concept: Holiday reduction and lengthening of working time create even less work than reduction of working time in those areas where productivity is high enough. Finally, let me mention one more: In a study by the OECD, in a statement by the European Union Commission, Austrian wage policy is highly praised. However, it is also a fact that in the last ten years, wages within Europe have always fallen by about one percentage point behind productivity. Wage reduction does not create new work, that has proved the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4947	On the subject of the present hour, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has the floor to deliver an opinion provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4968	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a brief look at the creation of the national employment action plan. At the special meeting of the Luxembourg European Council – better known as the Luxembourg Employment Summit – in December 1997 – and I believe that from an Austrian point of view, we can very proudly point to the success of the Austrian Federal Government in the context of these decisions, a pan-European strategy for the creation of employment and the reduction of unemployment. [[Abg. Wabl: What decisions?]] [[Abg. Oils: What successes?]] The Heads of Government of the European Union have agreed on 19 guidelines to be implemented in so-called action plans. In concrete terms, that means that every Member State should set clear, concrete objectives that it wants to achieve over the next five years, because – and I believe you will give me the right – the experience from the stability criteria has shown that clear objectives in economic policy can be an essential success factor. In this way, quantifiable employment policy objectives should also lead to an improvement in employment and labour market conditions. My colleague, Mr Farnleitner, and I were assigned to draw up the Austrian National Employment Action Plan. A few days ago, a draft of this employment plan was submitted to the social partners, who need to play an important role in implementing this national employment plan, for their opinion. The national action programme will be adopted by the Council of Ministers at the end of March and presented to the Cardiff European Council in June of this year. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why not here?]] Finally, a first evaluation of the Member States' labour market and employment policies is foreseen within the framework of our Presidency for the Vienna European Council in December 1998. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria has successfully managed the necessary adjustments to changed production structures, market conditions and new forms of employment, I think to be able to say, at least more successful than all other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to Norway, Denmark and Ireland, Austria is the only European country with a strong employment growth since 1990. Since 1990, we have 175,000 employees more – a 6 per cent increase – and since 1983 it has been around 320 000 – or 20 per cent. A further 45 000 are forecast to increase by 1999. Accordingly, the labour market situation in Austria is also taking place – I emphasize: in the international comparison! - relatively favourable. Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in Luxembourg; in January it was 4.4%. Youth unemployment is the lowest in Europe at all. The proportion of long-term unemployed is significantly lower than the average of the Member States of the European Union in this respect. I think it's right to say, without wanting to be beautiful: Austria's labour market is number one in the European Union. A labour market and unemployment ranking conducted by the Institute for Higher Studies according to relevant indicators – these are the employment rate, unemployment, youth unemployment and also long-term unemployment – clearly points to Austria in the first place compared with the other EU Member States. [[Abg. Oellinger: No cheerings, Mrs. Minister!]] If the above indicators are used as a collective index, Austria is the first one, before Denmark and Luxembourg. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to say with all clarity that this excellent position cannot mean that we want to stand out from our responsibility to do everything we can to achieve higher employment and lower unemployment, but it is the declared goal of the Federal Government – that was it already in the past, but it will also be in the future – to make every effort to achieve it. The national action plan is therefore also based on these objectives. We intend to create new, additional work, to significantly reduce the level of unemployment, to contribute to the promotion of equal opportunities between women and men, to flexibly, innovativeally and persuasively flexibly shaping the good training and employment system in the interests of dynamic structural adjustment, and to promote a new culture of self-employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The national employment plan provides for an increase in employment by about 100 000 people by 2002 in order to meet the budgetable conditions, thereby reducing the unemployment rate to about 3.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These objectives can only be achieved through a comprehensive and coordinated employment-oriented and employment-related overall strategy. There is no patent recipe: neither in our country nor in other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It really needs the involvement of all relevant policies and institutions, the organisations, the social partners, but also – and I stress this here in the House – of the countries and communities that are to be actively involved in this. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] This national employment programme also includes territorial employment packages to develop programmes at regional level. Long-term employment and structural success can only be achieved in conjunction with strong economic growth. Therefore, the government's offensive growth policy is also geared towards a sustainable and structural improvement of the Austrian economic location. In concrete terms, these objectives, as decided in Luxembourg, are to be achieved by four measures. These four measures are: Improving employability, developing entrepreneurship, promoting the adaptability of employers and workers and equal opportunities. The Action Plan, for example, provides for an employment-friendly design of the tax and tax structure with the relief of the labour factor. Social partners' agreements are intended to provide approaches to the better distribution of the volume of work. – Mr Vergestnitsch has already referred to this. It also provides for a more effective fight against illegal employment and organised black work. Furthermore, the restrictive admission of new workers from third countries to the labour market should be maintained. Wider scope should also be given to educational policy approaches. The further development of vocational training, the development of apprenticeship training as well as the vocational colleges and a reform of the polytechnic course should be highlighted. [[Abg. Oils: We already have that!]] For the purpose of increasing the compatibility of work and family, additional provision should be made for children and older people. This week, Mr Rasinger, has also given consideration to how new, additional jobs can be created in the health field. At present, for example, non-marketable work, such as in the field of social and services, is not really fully integrated into the employment system. Therefore, measures should also be taken to achieve this objective. In addition, it is envisaged that women's promotion plans will be subject to a criterion for awarding public contracts. The Labour Constitution Act is also intended to provide for women's promotion plans in a more mandatory form than is currently the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to create new businesses, obstacles are to be removed and better framework conditions created. This will be facilitated by the simplification and acceleration of authorisation procedures and by the creation of founding and risk capital markets. The expert plan, which is currently in place, also provides for research and innovation support and for a concentration of funding approaches. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is this expert plan, please?]] Public investment will be increased by the implementation of existing projects. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The economic research institutes' forecasts, as presented to the public in recent days and hours, indicate a favourable economic development for the period 1998 to 2002. Thus, average real economic growth will be 2.5 percent compared to 1.7% between 1992 and 1997. This will also significantly improve the situation in the labour market. Overall, it does not seem unrealistic that by 2002, employment will increase by about 100 000 people and the unemployment rate will fall to a value of about 3.5 percent. I consider the achievement of this objective to be a common national concern. I regard it as the concrete political challenge in the next few years, and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5113	For business treatment, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5134	Mr President. High house! I take away from the media that a national action plan for employment should be available. The title of today's current hour, requested by the SPÖ, reads: Employment Programme of the Federal Government. The Federal Minister also spoke of an expert action plan. I would like to point out that the opposition of this programme of experts, apparently presented to the media or to the government parties, does not exist. We have really tried to get this paper today in the early days, in order to be able to assess it quickly. – However, we were informed by the office of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that the opposition parties would not be given this paper, so that they might not be misinterpreted and, according to the Minister's Office, the opposition "not go with hated formulations to the public". [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr President. I do not think that it is any successful way of creating a national programme that the opposition parties are obviously unable to or may not receive. I therefore urge that the sitting be suspended so that we can clarify when and if the opposition comes to this paper at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5194	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On Monday – in time – I received the draft on a topic of a current hour. The topic read as follows: Employment Programme of the Federal Government. It was to be examined whether this proposal was submitted to § 97a para. 3 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There it is said that the current hour serves a "debate on topics of general current interest in the field of the execution of the federal government". – Employment policy or the employment programme is certainly a matter of general interest, and it is also from the area of the execution of the federal government. That is why this proposal has been accepted at the current hour, and all the political groups have been agreed accordingly. – This is the area I have to be interested in. We are not responsible for communicating between a parliamentary club and the Minister for Business. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But this is a question of communication with Parliament, Mr President!]] I would therefore ask for understanding to continue with the current hour. However, there are now further statements on business treatment. I would give a speech to any group in the sense of a usus, without taking a debate on it. Mr Delegate Dr. Haider, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5224	Mr President. High house! Yesterday, a meeting of the Integration Committee took place, and I asked Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, after her presentation, if we could get the documents for this national employment programme. Yesterday you told me, Mrs Federal Minister, that the Federal Government is still working on it. Today, you say the opposition doesn't get it, because it could make something negative out of it. You told me the government is still working on it. And in the newspapers, we read that there is already something. What is the secret of what the Federal Government is talking about, that Parliament, which should ultimately be informed of, must not have that? Is this a paper that doesn't exist yet – or do you hold it back artificially? Then I would look at it for a not very fair course of action that is played with sunken cards in the face of such important concerns as you yourself say.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5269	I would remind you that the word on the business of the National Council is wanted. Mr. Dr. Kostelka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5296	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly do not want to abuse this speech, but I must point out that we have deliberately spent this current hour in the service of the debate on the Federal Government's employment programme in order to make a contribution from Parliament to the employment programme to be worked out. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government celebrates something it does not have yet!]] I cannot understand colleagues who are excited that the Socialist Group is discussing this important national problem at the earliest possible time. I should like to remind you of what Mr Vergestnich has done in his debate, namely to formulate his expectations for this programme. It's important to us. We want to have discussed it in the National Council at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5350	Also for business treatment: Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5371	In my opinion, a break in the session makes no sense because it is not surprising to me that the Federal Government has no employment programme. If the Socialist Group makes a statement on the current hour and does not provide the honourable Member with documents already available in any form, then I only conclude that it is not interested in a serious and serious exchange of views on real content, but only in making it a farce. But each group has the political culture it expresses in this way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[11:31]] President Dr Heinz Fischer: For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5422	Mr President. High house! We too are highly interested in this national employment programme. The preparatory work is under way, but a document to be sent to Parliament has not yet been decided in the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] These are pre-drafts of interest, and I can only say: It is up to each political group to use its own staff to obtain these papers. In any case, I would like to make our contribution to the draft proposals available to all political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5480	It remains undisputed that the topic of the current hour is in conformity with business regulations. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A current hour about an employment programme that doesn't exist!]] Mrs Sophie Bauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5513	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This situation shows that those who have not contributed to providing employment and jobs are now excited because others have been able to imagine something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What do you mean, Mrs. Bauer?]] Listen to me, then you'll know what I mean. It is, of course, important for us Social Democrats that employment is the top priority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: General places!]] Many important points are mentioned in the action plan that the Federal Government has drawn up, as we will continue to succeed in keeping unemployment low. Of course, budgetary resources must also be made available for this. In order to achieve jobs, cooperation between the economy and the social partners must work, and if, ladies and gentlemen, more and more demands for more flexible working hours are being made on the part of the economy, it must also play its part. In the first place, the necessary framework conditions, such as childcare facilities or driving facilities, need to be created. It is also necessary to take legal measures to ensure that roads are built where there is a need for an establishment, and not individual persons who do not live in that district because of a beetle or a bird that is not at all available in that region, as was the case in my district, to prevent the development of a road. In my opinion, a key point of view is also the preparation of the profession in school. The learned craftsmanship should have an important role in society in relation to other trainings. Equal opportunities in education and training must already be treated as a subject of education. It is necessary for girls in school to draw up curriculum, to create teaching content and to provide teaching materials that contribute to gender equality. An example from my perspective: If companies are willing to include girls in non-traditional occupations, the additional burden required, for example, for the construction of additional sanitary facilities should be paid. In my view, a very important factor is the financial support of business and regional foundations for the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! How important such a foundation is, I would like to point out on the basis of an example from my company. Last year we had a huge break-in in the skate area, in the roller shoes: 70 employees had to be terminated. The remaining employees – that is 200 – were willing to make a solidarity contribution of 1 percent of their gross earnings for this foundation. The works council also succeeded in providing 1.5 million schilling in long negotiations with the management of the company. However, the largest chunks had to bring in the country, 3.9 million schilling. This gives those concerned the opportunity to learn a profession that they would have liked to practice since they left school, but for which the possibilities and conditions were not available. Training measures will allow for better qualification in order to also create a return to other professions or industries. I would also like to say that the success of these foundations is 85 per cent and that reintegration in the labour market is even possible up to 100 per cent. Such measures should continue to make it possible to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5567	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5600	You can't talk about it because you don't know what's really happening on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why doesn't he know? Explain this to us!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is all called upon, both countries and municipalities, to cooperate successfully that the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5644	The speaking time has expired! The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5669	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In any case, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has dealt intensively with the EU paper and, of course, has also produced its own position paper, which we would like to make available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we look at the employment problems in Austria and analyze them, then we will certainly come to the very clear position – it has been mentioned in part today – that Austria has a relatively low unemployment rate in international comparison, which is second in place, and that it takes the best place in the case of youth unemployment at all, which, ladies and gentlemen, must not lead us, however, to reject and look at what is going on in this way. Especially at a time when we are relatively good in international comparison, we are invited to do everything we can to secure employment for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also clear that employment policy is, of course, economic policy and that it must be addressed not only at national level but also at international level by the economic policy side. Only those who increase or at least safeguard the competitiveness of our economy can solve employment problems in the long term. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It has already been said by Mrs. Hostasch: We need economic growth. – I can only agree with that because that is a very clear and correct statement. All we have to do is create the conditions so that we can actually guarantee economic growth. But that's not so easy, and there we go our ways to and from time to time. I can also mention that here. In any event, those who want to reduce or reduce unemployment must be willing to reform, must continue to improve framework conditions: in tax policy, in wage and pay-side costs policy – that is very important – as well as in technology and education policy. In addition to wage costs, just one word, please: If one says on the one hand that we are going towards wage policy, then on the other hand, one must have the 13th and 14ths. In the case of the United Kingdom, the rate of increase in the number of persons employed in the labour market is the same as the rate of increase in the number of persons employed in the labour market. Or we say we have good income anyway, because we have the 13th and 14th. This is calculated as a percentage of the wage. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have to add it somewhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, in an analysis, we must also reduce or eliminate employment-reducing, perhaps specifically Austrian, factors. I am thinking, above all, of the relatively high infrastructure costs that we have to bear in Austria, of a very high or too high regulatory density with the associated high administrative costs. I am thinking of the low equity ratio, where we urgently need to improve, or too high capital costs due to too little flexibility in labour costs. Here you have to put on the lever. You have to do that. The social partners are also invited to do this, not just the government or the House. Ladies and gentlemen! The cornerstones of the employment guidelines of the European Union and the Economic and Social Committee have been mentioned here. We have been able to see common ground on a number of essential points. This relates specifically to the additional wage costs, which refers to the teaching system, to which I can say here that the EU has found that Austria has an excellent training system, namely our dual training system, which always brings great success to us and which is also recognised as very beneficial internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are serious about the changes we need, which will enable us to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy and which will enable us to obtain more jobs and be more competitive internationally, I am not afraid that we will continue to be able to secure jobs and create new ones in the future. We must not, however, pass the necessary changes. One word on the reduction of working time, ladies and gentlemen. In this respect, we are certainly not at all in agreement with the ÖGB. A reduction in working time can not do anything on and on itself because it is cost-enhancing, and if costs are increased,... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Verbatim]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5746	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5761	... if additional costs are increased, Mr President Verzellnich, then competitiveness will be reduced and not strengthened. However, we need to strengthen competitiveness, and that is why we should take this seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5792	Next speaker is Member Dr. Haider. He's got the floor. 5 minutes of time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5813	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker made it clear: There is not yet a national action plan that Mrs Bundesminister wanted to report to us today – according to the method: We do not know what we want, but we want it with all our strength. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, have not yet agreed, I wonder why the Vienna newspaper has already presented a documentation of the national action plan. [[Call to the liberals: Here look!]] I don't know, the ÖVP won't be asked anymore, or how's that going? That's really a strange idea you're giving here. This is not a current hour, but it is a fairy tale hour, Mrs Bundesminister, who is being carried out here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you have presented to us in terms of content are so to speak, roßknödel, but there is no suitable rose that should open up the new possibilities. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A schindorn was that!]] That's what it's like. You've always made it: You do not have an action plan, but you promise us 100 000 new jobs, and you do not know how to do this. You promised us that before joining the EU. 55 000 new jobs were mentioned in the EU brochure of the Federal Government. In the meantime, we know that it has become more than 55 000 new jobs, but 50 000 unemployed. On the basis of a study submitted yesterday, we know that we have lost 34 000 jobs since 1994. That's the balance of your policy! That is why I am telling you, Mrs Federal Minister, where you should be. Be careful to introduce a national employment plan if you are at the same time pushing forward EU enlargement, as you plan, because that means unemployment, which means streamlining low-cost workers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know very well that before joining the EU, we drew your attention to what it means to compete with cheap workers within the EU at the level of wages in Austria. At that time it said: No problem, we'll take all of this. But to this day there is no reasonable law on redundancies. Here I have a circular letter from a Portuguese rental agency. They say: We offer something for all industries in Austria! Your advantage at a glance! I read this to you, Mrs Federal Minister and Mr Trade Union President, who is always concerned about salaries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Its advantage at a glance, says the office, which seems to be working under a socialist employment policy in Austria: no 13 and 14. Employees' salary, no overtime and holiday supplements, no sickness or accident at work, no pay for work, no work-law problems, no social security problems, no problem with the labour inspectorate and with the works council! – And that under a socialist government, which says it wants to create 100 000 jobs, but at the same time allowing cheap workers to enter the country, which makes the Austrians unemployed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As long as you want to carry out the Easter enlargement, you will produce unemployment and not jobs. You know that, Mr President, only you have not dared to say anything here, except any cloudy statements. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yesterday in the Integration Committee, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor said something essential about what your employment policy looks like. It was said: If we make the Easter enlargement around the Czechs, Hungary and Poland, then there is the opportunity to achieve employment effects by making joint cross-border projects. Mr Vice-Chanzler spoke about an INTERREG project – and the German Chancellor, by chance, was nagging – namely an INTERREG project in such a way that we develop the airport of Prussia and cooperate with Vienna-Schweichat. Something stupid isn't there at all! You know exactly what that means: Instead of building a third runway in Schwechat, one builds up in Prussia and relocates the jobs there. This is your employment policy: The creation of jobs abroad, and the Austrians are going to stamp! That really can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say to you: Rewrite your employment programme! The Federal Chancellor has promised to help older workers. After that, please take care of the Federal Forest, where even the works councils can be bought out of the cancellation and early retirement list so that they can survive themselves. But the mass of the small people who are over 50 years old will be sent to the early retirement in the state farm Federal Forest – that is your employment programme! You will all be sent to the unemployed – this is your employment programme! And you can see that at the post, at the train, at the Federal Forests. Wherever the government has something to talk about, the jobs are disappearing and the older people are being thrown out – against your announcements! Make order here, then you are credible in employment policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5898	Mr Fassleven, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, spoke on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5927	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The fact that employment policy for the Austrian Federal Government is not only a visionary programme for the future, but a fact can best be seen from the fact that, better than in all other European countries, it has succeeded in shaping the employment situation in Austria in such a way that more people have work and that they have more qualitative work than anywhere else in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] There is no doubt that this fact cannot cause us to simply put our hands in the lap now, but must encourage us to do everything we can to secure this position for the future. The fact that there is unemployment in Europe, in Western Europe as in Eastern Europe, results in the need for us to break our heads over the future. What is now being developed is a programme to further improve the competitiveness of our economy for the future, because this has been the most important factor in the current employment situation. Ladies and gentlemen! If we have the highest rate of employment in Europe today, then because last year we managed to increase exports by two-digit growth rates, in concrete terms by 14 per cent, even by more than 31 per cent on the Eastern European countries. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is proof that we do not need the opening of the East!]] Today, Hungary is already in fourth place on our export list, still in front of Switzerland, Great Britain and France. I think we should continue this successful path. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] Of course, we must make every effort to give youth employment, through new teaching professions, but also by opening up new structures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] There are still problems with the girls in this regard. It is simply a fact that more than half of all teaching institutions in the female field are based on only three occupations, namely hairdresser, office merchant and merchant, so that we have to try to create new, differentiated offers there. We must invest in education, because that is probably our best chance, with regard to the future. In this respect, I also welcome the fact that our Federal Minister for Education not only sets out measures to upgrade the teaching in order to be able to link teaching with Matura in the future, but also to force foreign language teaching in the classes of folk school to promote the competitiveness of our country. Because what we are investing in schools now is tomorrow's jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not only about strengthening international competitiveness in export markets, but also about keeping domestic demand high. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The high taxes!]] And this is a programme that we must take into account in the future, which is undoubtedly not simply written down, but which requires balance between external and internal components, where trade unions have acted responsibly and where we must say that the social peace in Austria is worth a lot. We simply have to assume that only 26 percent of our social product is exportable and that a large part of it is actually domestically generated, with demand capacity having to be available accordingly. The fact that there has been no increase over the last few years, but a certain stagnation, has given us reason to put this component more into the calculation in future considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we consistently strengthen our international competitiveness with a national employment programme, if we put on the table and enforce measures for young people, especially for young women, but also for older workers, and if we succeed in keeping domestic demand so high, I am convinced that we will continue to be at the forefront of employment and employment in Europe in the future. And that is our most important political goal for the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6028	Mrs Dr Schmidt has the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6075	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My impression is that the SPÖ does not take Parliament seriously. It can already be said that the Federal Government's employment programme, should there be one, is an up-to-date issue, and I naturally share this view. Only: What are we supposed to think if you have concepts, no matter how they may look, and if you want them to be sent to the honourable Member sometime during the day, but you are doing a current hour and don't even give it here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] What do you want me to say? Do you really want to discuss the content or do you want to have a headline in the paper, in which the word "program" occurs in order to give the impression in this way, you have one? I believe that this alone is an insult to Parliament. But be it. We have been concerned about this paper in another way, and I am therefore ready to talk about this paper as well. It should only be noted that you have not at all put any emphasis on the fact that Members know it at all. This paper is a single disappointment, for a variety of reasons. First: It doesn't contain anything new at all. [[Call the ÖVP:Proposals!]] There's nothing new about it, and now I'm wondering: How can you give the impression that what you are planning here has only a chance to realize if in the past you have had a number of opportunities to implement precisely these things, but on the one hand, you have failed to agree on the failure of the coalition, on the other hand, because you have failed to agree with the social partners? I just need to think about what was passed in Parliament not so long ago by the majority of government groups: the vocational training law, the law on child and youth employment, the law on working time – that sounds all very good – the trade regulations and, above all, the contract regulations. Only: All these laws have not prompted you to make the right choices, but in part the opposite has happened. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Success is right!]] Today, we will be able to talk again about the trade agreement system in the course of a urgent request from the Liberals. And I'm not saying anything about the trade order. What remains are wishlists, with one reporting reservations to the other. But what's worse is: You're still under arrest in your old thinking patterns. And if, in your old patterns of thinking, you pretend that full employment would be the concept of the future, the concept of ensuring the social cohesion of this society would be more than negligent. I don't think it's responsible because it's not true. This is a denial of reality, and this has two terrible consequences: On the one hand, you arouse an expectation in the population that is not satisfactory and where the disappointment can be discharged from it in a crash that you cannot answer. On the other hand, it serves as an excuse for you not to have to break your head over other concepts, such as – and I think this is necessary – the decoupling of social security and labour, because full employment will no longer be the basis for a certain quality of life and a certain degree of living for all. You know that exactly, and if you are advocating a different expectation here, I think that's not responsible. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition: That the Liberals have worked out a concept for basic security and that, hopefully, they can finally bring about a public discourse, that is something that makes me proud. And if I look at the assessment procedure we have carried out, and at the reactions, in particular the labour market researchers, who are consistently positive, also with corrections and similar, but with acceptance and recognition that this is the only way, I must say: You've missed everything because you're not even ready to think about it. But you have also applied your old thinking patterns in another area, and I now appeal to all my colleagues and, first and foremost, to all the Members of the other political groups: We need a new assessment of work, especially in connection with the situation of women. You know that very well. It doesn't make any sense at all when we ask: Equal pay for equal work! if the evaluation of work continues according to male patterns. If you nod, I hope that you will agree to our motion for a resolution, which we are going to propose a study in order to question these evaluation criteria and to draw up new ones in this way. We will make a further request. There are so many things that could change the situation of women – they say themselves that they are discriminated against in the state of the situation. They have set different deadlines for the leave period for men and women in order to make it easier for the husband to leave. Please agree to our request to approximate the time limits. Perhaps then we will also come to another role behaviour. But what's essential to me is: They always fight only the symptoms and never address the causes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6128	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6144	These causes are a lack of flexibility, excessive bureaucracy, reasonable restrictions on access to the profession and, above all, education policy. To see the key here and to go new ways here would be your job in connection with an employment programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6174	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6195	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, What is the essence of this debate that we are now holding? A good wish concert of the social partners, which I believe will take place elsewhere. And I also wonder why, in this House, Mr Vergestnich and Mr Maderthaner have to exchange, if they do so in the context of obviously more or less secret negotiations. That's what I'm wondering about, especially since it doesn't come out any more than common places. And what the Federal Minister has said here is that sand is crashing between the fingers. There is nothing left but the self-on-the-student gap, according to the motto, how good we are in terms of jobs, to the working situation in our country. If it doesn't come out any more, then this current hour is not in place. She's definitely not in place because you don't want to discuss the opposition seriously. We Greens asked a urgent question on this very subject in December. At that time, you explained: We cannot discuss this, but we have good intentions, and as the Federal Government, we will discuss it with Parliament as soon as possible. But you are not willing to discuss the content. We have also asked questions to the Federal Minister for Agriculture and the Federal Chancellor on this very subject. At the beginning of February we received the answer, but again we did not learn anything concrete. Now, in mid-February, the Social Democratic Party discovers that there could obviously be something more, but it does not know what it is, and therefore it is resorting back to common places, to refugees, at the request of anyone, if possible to another social partners. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be! How many times have we had debates in this Parliament, which have not gotten out of it. They refuse to take note of the fact that there are hundreds of thousands in our country who have a right not only to obtain work that secures their income but also to be accepted and taken seriously in their wishes. You refuse to admit that you bear the responsibility. There is nothing to help if you say that hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in the next few years. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Sage It also appeals to how many jobs – there are tens of thousands – will be destroyed in the next few years! Also tell us what the net balance is! That's not a hundred thousand! If we look at what has happened in recent years, Mrs. Minister, I have to tell you: With your success concept, which you have been applying since 1990, you can go swimming. Since 1995, the job balance has been negative. We have lost more jobs in Austria than new ones have gained. But that's not all. Unemployment has also increased – if you have not noticed it. We hold 7.1 percent of the unemployment rate. Mrs. Minister! I can't tell you that the planned drop from 4.5 percent to 3.5 percent is absolutely good if you can't count on how many new jobs and how many unemployed people this means less in Austria! But you can't and don't want to count that. And you can't and don't want to say whether these hundred thousand jobs, the jobs you want to create, will secure sufficient income or whether that's the kind of jobs that we know from other countries, where people then have jobs, are partially put into work, but the income they get from this work is not enough to survive in order to survive decently. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this debate that we should have led, on the basis of concrete proposals, to the employment plan, which shows whether the employment plan really implements what parts of the economy want to realize, namely the reduction of collective contract wages. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want to know what's coming out! You have to explain yourself! It's about more! It's about work, it's right, but it's also about sufficient income; that's where the colleague Schmidt from the Liberal Forum is right. And it's also about social security. If I recapitulate what is in the employment plan or in what one has to think about it, if I remember that it contains in part the withdrawal of what you have achieved in the savings package, ladies and gentlemen, then I ask myself: What policies have you made in recent years, if the result and the perspective for the future is that you have partly made the savings package – thank God! - Take back?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6244	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6259	What else have you done in recent years? It is also about quality of life, about social security! That is why, Mrs Minister, I also expect you to declare yourself Dukovany. The Federal Government has not yet made a statement on this question – and you as the Federal Minister have been addressed. It is not only about work, but also about sufficient income and social security.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6289	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6311	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of a representative of the small and medium-sized economy, I can only support a national action plan on work. I think it's necessary – more necessary than ever. As we have heard from the Federal Minister – and the data and figures are known to us all – we have data available across Europe, and we cannot and should not simply go away. As some of my previous speakers have said, of course we do not turn back. That must not be because every unemployed person is too much. This ceiling is always valid for us. Ladies and gentlemen! As we have heard today, the employment programme contains very interesting chapters. Among other things, I am of course also interested in the chapter "Development of Entrepreneurship". The reduction and simplification of management is an important measure. I have already raised this demand a number of times, I think, from this point of view. I'm of the opinion: The craftsman belongs to the workshop, the merchant to the store, the host to the restaurant and all together not continuously to the office. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Peter.]] The introduction of the chip card, the simplification of the tax area, the increased use of information and communication technologies, statistical reports, everything exaggerating, lurks us in our actual activity. It is important that changes are made. Because of the short speaking time, I picked out a partial aspect. The accounting industry is also in conversation. Ladies and gentlemen! We of the small economy are champions of this industry, because for a small and medium-sized businessman, the fees he simply has to pay to the tax advisor represent enormous sums. It is therefore time for a change to take place. For smaller companies – not for large ones – this is certainly an important thing. For my family community, however, the deregulation of work is particularly interesting. The services sector has always considered this to be one of its topics. I'm not going to say, When the late Social Minister Alfred Dallinger proclaimed the value added tax, he was attacked by many people who today stand quite differently on this issue. Now they know, or have experienced, that this is not utopia, that this is a topic that you need to talk about today more than ever. Ladies and gentlemen! A change of mind is permitted for everyone, but it is important to make something out of it. It is important for the future that you know that you have to study a problem first, then discuss it and then have to criticize it. This order is a crucial factor, and we really put great value on it! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The third pillar deals with promoting adaptability. We are rightly given little flexibility. There are traditional reservations in Austria against evening employment, Saturday employment and Sunday employment. Of course, something has to happen, but allow me a word to do so. As far as Sunday employment is concerned, there is the slightest difference to the European programme. There, too, Sunday employment is not particularly desirable. We, too, from the Social Democratic Party, but also the members of the Free Economic Association have no pleasure in Sunday work. I would like to say this very clearly. As one of the injured – I am a host host of profession – I have experienced as a child what it means never to have a Sunday, never to have a mother in the evening and always have to work when the friends are at pleasure. I don't understand Sunday work. We strongly condemn this alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is clear: Once this becomes fashion, then it becomes one, even cross-sectoral, and we don't want it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6374	I call for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6389	I appeal to everyone to consider the subject of Sunday work very well! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6420	The next speaker is Dr. Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6441	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the individual speaker presented a different presentation before me – our goal is to regain full employment in Austria or to secure a job for every Austrian and every Austrian! We are in principle different from what you said, Mrs. Schmidt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I consider it embarrassing for a politician or a politician when he or she comes out here and nothing else can tell the young people in Austria than the message that full employment in Austria is not guaranteed that there is no job for them. It's embarrassing, Mrs. Schmidt, if you're proclaiming such a message from here. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Moralization you don't need!]] Let me mention the main points of our employment programme. Our primary concern, ladies and gentlemen, is apprenticeship training, including in 1998. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Peter.]] We are in favour of quality training for our young people, namely apprentices, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're doing. But we want something else – and I say that, even if perhaps that is true of you, Mr Mag. Peter, not on fertile soil – we want a chance in apprenticeship training for those young people who are less gifted. We support the fact that teaching and stage teaching in Austria will be acceptable and acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, for a very simple reason: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Nearly 50 percent of the unemployed in Austria are unlearned, people who have no education who have not been able to attend middle or higher school, and we want to face it. Everyone should be given the chance to complete a training course. On this point we will not let go, ladies and gentlemen. Second point – the ÖAAB and our Minister Fassleven have been drumming there for a few months: We want to create start jobs for young academics in the public service. This is a very important request, ladies and gentlemen. We want to create start jobs for young academics so that they can enter professional life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a good statement to you: The next Monday the first start jobs for young academics will be created in Vorarlberg. The first four young academics begin their service in the area of the National Service of Vorarlberg and can take up training there. This is done together with the economy. There is an agreement between business and Vorarlberg, which allows young academics to be trained and to work for nine months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we were to transfer this model to the Federal Service, that would mean that we could offer 500 start jobs throughout Austria, ladies and gentlemen. This request, we wish to make this wish here today, and I would ask that we take a lead in creating start-ups for young people so that they can enter working life and not be afraid of finding a job. The second major concern is the re-entry of women into working life. This is a very important point of the national employment programme that we must move forward. I would also like to make a very specific proposal. It would be useful to create female employment funds, just as we did for the freight forwarders or for the employees in the food industry. We are working for young women who want to return to working life. It is also important to improve women's reintegration assistance, make them more attractive and to improve their activities. I come to the conclusion: I expect clear and clear statements from this national action plan for employment, not a rage in paper, but a few clear statements on which we can orient ourselves in labour market policy and on which older workers can also orient themselves, so that they can know what they expect, what opportunities they have in which direction they should work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] This is our wish, and we will continue to work on it, Mrs Schmidt: that such a national employment plan for Austria should come about – with concrete statements, concrete proposals, concrete alternatives to employment and with the aim of restoring full employment in Austria! That is our goal, our concern, and we will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6530	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6551	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about employment policy or the Federal Government's employment programme, but there is no government bank of the German Chancellors, who has always talked about the employment initiative, including those within the European Union. Mr. Minister of Defence! They are one who has reduced 2,000 planned jobs in his ministry and will have a negative effect on employment by reducing the military system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: No, a positive!]] And you, Mrs Hostasch, are a Federal Minister who builds up more obstacles than contributes positively to employment effects. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I just call it a keyword: All entrepreneurs stand the hair to mountains when they think of the contract regulations. This is a negative employment effect and not a more positive one, and it came directly from your place of business. Ladies and gentlemen! I make three things clear: Employment creates entrepreneurs and not the government. The government should provide an optimal framework for this. The question is allowed: Is she really? The government and the state can only create incentives, but not jobs, but we miss these incentives. There are currently more obstacles than incentives. High house! I would like to mention just a few examples of this, which have been decided in the past by this House and in which the government has done a lot about regulations in the Ministries that the result of employment in this Republic has been rather negative. I have already mentioned the contract regulations as an example of this. Mrs. Federal Minister! Two tax packages have been decided which have reduced the net wage for workers, resulting in a negative purchasing power effect. Reduced purchasing power means less employment. Mr Haigermoser, you're going to give me a hand, because in your department store you've certainly already felt that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third point: 102 per cent additional labour costs. Mr President, I am entirely of your opinion: Not reducing wages to create work, but reducing taxes to create work! But why don't you put up with this question – at 102 percent additional labour costs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth point: Young entrepreneurs are to be encouraged. A young businessman must, if he is a company with a legal form for his business. to pay a minimum corporation tax. He didn't deserve anything at all, but the Minister of Finance says: 25 000 s on my hand in the first year! We have 38 tax and tax types in Austria. Mr. Kiermaier, did you ever figure this out at your farm? 38 If you pay them all, you must always write them on your bill of payment. 38! We have initiated to reduce this to OECD level once, to about 21. But any motion for a resolution from the Liberals will be voted down here in this House, even if it represents a reasonable proposal. The big coalition just doesn't want to hear about it. There are a few areas in which we have been very precise about how to achieve favourable employment effects. This includes the "everlasting" issue of non-evaluating profits remaining in the company. The Chamber of Commerce endorses this concept, and when it speaks to companies, it says: Yeah, that's a good thing, you can get closer. But, Mr President, you are stupid: Any motion for a resolution in this direction will be rejected by you here in this House. It's the same with the beverage tax. There you collect 300 000 signatures from the host industry and the food trade, but the same application you have signed by entrepreneurs is rejected here in Parliament by you – by the same ones who collect. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That was a solution!]] That's what I call double-beddedness! In this way you cannot make any economic policy or employment policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They would have to be selected as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce for five years in order to run an enterprise. Then you should go back, and then you would notice what it means to be a businessman! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We have a total responsibility!]] One last issue: the question of EU enlargement. It's already been cut today. Mr. Col....
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6636	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6652	Consent to EU enlargement will only be possible for us if there is economic convergence. With 3 percent economic growth in the Czech Republic, 28 years will have to pass in order to achieve the same wage level as in Austria. Only then can there be an EU Easter enlargement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6682	Ladies and gentlemen! As a further foreign guest, I welcome the Vice-President of the Estonia Parliament, Mr Tunne Kelam. It will be held here in Austria on the occasion of the National Day of Estonia. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6712	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are probably few issues which are more politically serious than the question of employment and full employment. The Liberal Forum considers full employment to be a political goal, but in contrast to many of the previous speakers who have so far spoken, we are of the opinion that this objective will not be reached in the form we have been used to. There are two labour markets today, which you must take note of despite all political rhetoric. One is the labour market of demand. There, 10 percent of employees leave the labour market every year, mainly for skills reasons, and a equally high percentage of new employees are needed. This is the speed with which technologies and economic conditions change. At the end of the decade, where we are now, 80 percent of today's technologies will no longer be market-compliant. Our problem is that the demand for labour market is developing very rapidly by a factor of 10 per cent per year, while offers on the labour market only change by 2 to 3 per cent per year. In this respect, I agree with all those who have spoken about education policy. This will be the key to the very specific question of employment in Austria: Is it possible for us to give this information to people in our country for further education, for lifelong learning? Can we further develop them at speed, how economic markets develop and how demand develops? Many previous speakers have dealt very intensively with the question of employment, but none of them have taken the word "customer" into their mouths. Everyone is talking about employment policy like the magicians, and one rocket after another is shot up: Mr Schüssel is making 40 000 new entrepreneurs, where Mr Vrannitzky makes 50,000 new employees, and now Mr Klima makes 100,000 new employees – one rocket after another! But no one, ladies and gentlemen of the House, here speaks of those who create employment: These are the customers, that's the customer's demand. Dr. Haider and, unfortunately, Mr Schreiner even want to cut us off from our new markets by speaking out against EU enlargement. Of course, this also needs to be harmonised socially and employment policy. But there are the new markets. Mr Fassleven referred to the question of private consumption. Mr Federal Minister, that's our problem! Private consumption, because of the tax policy and the income policy that you and this Federal Government have operated, is now nominatingly rising only to a very small extent, and it is actually falling. We lack the demand, not least private consumption in the area of tourism demand, which has fallen very much in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! When you discuss employment policy – many of you have done so – and do not even put the words "customer", "Market", "Customer need" or "Customer orientation" in the mouth, I told you about the magic apprenticeship. You're trying to move in a pot, although you haven't really thought about where the job is going. Austria is a people of self-employed, only we have too little official self-employed and too many unofficial self-employed! We have a self-employed rate of 18 percent in Austria, but only a third of it is legal. Two thirds are independent in illegality, in blackwork, in the coup, and you do not give them the opportunity to get out of this area with your policy. Yes, Mrs Bundesminister, there is organized black work, and it is a political task to combat it. No question at all! But think She goes on to explain why these 500 000 unregistered self-employed people are heading for unregistered self-employment – say: Blackwork and Push – have been looking for. Does that perhaps have to do with your environment? Are labour costs in relation to gross wages too high – 100 percent – that it is therefore worth working in the black sector? Are the bureaucrats you have built too high for the unregistered self-employed that they do not go the way into registered self-employment? Are perhaps social and labour security schemes – Mr President of the Trade Union Confederation! – is there a new poverty among small entrepreneurs today? These are points we should consider. Why should a person who deserves 35 000 S gross and who is in the protected area of labour rights, social rights, settlement, employment protection should go out into the cold of self-employment? Have you done the right policy to encourage the many active young people in Austria who say: Yes, I am someone who actually wants to become a businessman!, or do you hinder her? Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss employment again, I ask you: Let us also talk about markets and customers and let us not only announce standings so that we do not stir up like the magicians in the pot of employment policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6774	Mrs Gabriela Moser is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6795	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about security of life, today we are talking about safe employment policy. Today it is also about safeguarding our livelihoods. Unfortunately, if one believes in a study by Emmerich Tálos, the fact that one million people live practically under the minimum of existence in Austria is the fact that despite economic growth, despite increasing export numbers, despite ambitions, advances and national employment plans. If we believe other studies – in particular the Institute for Higher Studies – then in 1997 every fifth Austrian or every fifth Austrian was once affected by unemployment! These are facts that are evidenced by study and that show how uncertain the employment situation is, how uncertain it is and how uncertain our livelihoods are in the workplace as a whole. Similarly uncertain are our livelihoods also in the basic health field, in the basic survival area, given the fact that now 35 kilometres north of the border near Haugsdorf and 90 or 95 kilometres north of Vienna an environmental impact assessment is carried out via an intermediate storage of atomare waste. There, 35 kilometres from our doorstep, nuclear fuel elements are to be stored for 40 years, in combination with four reactor blocks of an old, safety-threatening, risk-rich nuclear power plant in Dukovany. In view of this security threat and this threat to our existence not far from Vienna – for 40 years an intermediate camp, the highest security risk Dukovany – the government is not doing anything! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But this has little to do with labour market policy!]] On the one hand, there is the inaction of the government in the field of employment. I would just like to point out that the government's active labour market policy is more downhill with 1.8% of gross domestic product compared to the European average. In Finland, Sweden or Denmark, the percentages are much higher. In Finland, the active labour market policy is my memory of 6.7 percent of gross domestic product. It thus shows the inaction of the government in this area, but it exists mainly in terms of security of existence, in terms of party position and in terms of opposition to Dukovany. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: What is possible?]] What is possible? – At least that is what we were able to put on our feet in 1992 with Minister for the Environment smoke-callat: an official protest. There's nothing to see about that so far. Climate does not protest, Prammer sends a press release. What's in the press release? – All steps are taken, with the highest responsibility. That's all: four words in the APA. While these four words are in the APA, at the same time it is planned that high-risk radioactive waste should be stored directly at our doorstep for 40 years. That's a lack of security policy! Now the countdown is running: 30 days is the deadline for application. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== And during the doctor's round, she chews on her fingernails. We don't want nuclear waste!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6844	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They are on the list of speakers on the health issue – rightly. But now we are in employment policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6859	We want to prevent life-threatening material from being stored right in front of our doorstep. The countdown is only running for 16 days, and you are inactive!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6889	There is no further statement of words to this effect. In addition, the current hour is already 90 minutes, and this is already at the ceiling in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I therefore declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6914	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7122	I also announce that the Eleventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and the Federal Minister. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7146	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 686/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Kier and comrades on the repair of the social security obligation for Free Service Contracts and New Self-employed. As the appropriate conditions for urgent treatment are met, this urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7171	I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Trattner requested that the Financial Committee report on the motion for a resolution 47/A (E) by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on cold progression be limited to the 15th. ==References== There is also the desire to have a brief debate on this request. As the debate on a urgent request has just been announced, the short debate will take place following the debate on the urgent request. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place immediately after the end of the debate. Finally, I should like to say that Mr Magistrate. Mr Stadler asked the Committee on Justice to report on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades concerning a package of measures for the comprehensive protection of children up to the 6th. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. This is Amendment 464/A (E). This request shall be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations of this meeting. A debate has not been requested. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7201	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up points 1 to 4, 5 and 6, 7 to 16, 18 and 19, as well as 20 and 21 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7230	In the presidential conference, we agreed on the design and duration of the debates on today's agenda as follows. There is a day-block speaking time of seven "Vienna hours" in view, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I'm asking: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This procedure has been approved by the plenary. 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the 1997 Health Report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs (1993-1995) (III-105/955 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 401/A (E) by Dr Alois Pumbergerund Comrades on the gaps in the reporting of communicable or dangerous diseases, in particular Creutzfeldt-Jakob syndrome (957 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 402/A (E) by Dr Alois Pumbergerund Comrades on the Law on Vaccines (958 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 412/A (E) by Dr Alois Pumbergerund Comrades on the threat of hospitalisation by new financial structures in health care (959 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7310	We come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no proposal for oral reporting. That means we come to the word messages. First speaker is Dr. Pumberger. A voluntary speaking time of 7 minutes will be set. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7337	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If the current hour lasts 90 minutes, this is nothing compared to the health report: It took more than three years to present it to the House. Its reporting period extends from 1993 to 1995, and since we are now writing the year 1998, it is not even possible to speak of a "report" in this health report, but rather of a "chronic". Mrs. Federal Minister! I think you are called on to submit the health reports to the House in good time in the future to ensure that the claim for topicality is respected. For it cannot be said that at a time when changes are going on so rapidly in the field of health care in Austria, three years after the end of the reporting period, such a report would still be up-to-date or that an up-to-date claim for this report would exist if we were to discuss it today. Even more scandalous is the extent to which this report does not contain, Mrs Federal Minister! Because the reporting period also covers a time when there was a health ministry. That is why the area now outsourced, which Mrs Prammer has to manage, should also be found in it. However, it has been distributed, and so important areas such as radiation protection or veterinary protection are no longer included in the health report at all, including nutrition or food control – at a time when we need to know almost daily from the newspapers that the food is largely corrupt. Only recently, for example, more than 30, 40 or 50 percent of corrupted fish samples were to be read again. This is no longer contained in the report, but it has been outsourced. It's not reported about it anymore. You don't want to talk about it anymore. Nor do we want to report on the health status of our school youth, for example. It has been found that the school youth has 75 percent disease-related damage. But what has been done after accurate statistics have been conducted and this has been established? – Instead of responding to and counteracting the role of health policymakers in this country and the great coalition, these statistics have been deleted. You do not make the statistics any more so that you can no longer find out how sick our school youth is! That is why we will also make a corresponding request today to improve the provision of medical services and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The report mentions expenditure. In 1995, we spent 185 billion Schilling on health care. In the meantime, however, we have decided on savings packages, and the debate on savings packages has been based on quite different figures. While 8.1 percent of the gross domestic product is now spent on health care, it was still 9.6 percent at the time. The health insurance companies, which do not want to save in terms of their administrative burden at all, have cried out to Zeter and Mordio and said: We have to save, we have to make a savings package on the back of the patients, we have to introduce the health certificate fee so that we can clean up. We increase the recipe fee by 20 percent at one stroke, we increase the amount of self retention in the spa, in the rehab area and much more. All of this happened under the pretext that health expenditure was too high. And that's where we've really been led behind the light. The government parties have played their full part in this scenario and have amended the laws to the detriment of citizens. But that was completely wrong and unjust, as you can see, because the health insurance companies are already writing profits again, but are still not willing to take back the burdens introduced with the savings packages. I mention here only the health certificate fee, where you said, with the chip card it falls away again, now you're talking about the chip card and the maintenance of the health card fee. Ladies and gentlemen! This numbering game, these turkled figures, with which we – especially the opposition parties – have been deceived in Parliament and because of which one has penetrated a savings package after another, are a cryout scandal, and I am surprised that you have never responded to it at all, Mrs Federal Minister! You have noted that you have contributed all of this, yes, I even suspect that you have also contributed to the publication of these horrendous figures on health care expenditure. We have even added the numbers of the veterinary service and allocated them, so that quite high amounts can be obtained. There is still much to be said about this, but I would just like to point out that, in the course of the new LKF, the hospital financing, because of the limited, limited contribution of the health insurance funds to hospital financing, it has inevitably come to the hospital burden we are forecast. Many people are now being forced into hospitals, although it would not be necessary for them at all. It is not good for patients to be admitted to a hospital unnecessarily – apart from the fact that the costs in the hospitals are also enormously high. Therefore, there is a need for action here too, so that we can push this hospital burden back again. You have already said that you are going to do it, Mrs Minister, but you have not acted yet. We also have the problem of spending 500 million schillings in hospitals in 1997 which cannot be brought in because we cannot take into account foreign patients who are being treated in Austria because of EU legislation and a law gap. 500 million schillings were the same – irrevocable, irreplaceable – in 1997, and 1998 will be the same. While the Austrians have to pay cash abroad and wait weeks and months for a bed in Austria, the foreigners are largely treated free of charge because we cannot charge them the bill. In order to eliminate this miscarriage for the year 1998, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to join this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7424	The application is submitted and duly signed and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7449	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! At the beginning of the 1990s, we saw a development in which health costs developed disproportionately in relation to GDP. Today, we can rightly say that it has succeeded in countering this development. The Government Declarations in December 1990 and 1994 gave the launch of a change in the financing of hospitals and a redefinition of the health concept. Important legal innovations have been decided. To name just a few areas: New regulations have been introduced in the field of health care, health care, health care, the medical law, the pharmaceutical and medical devices law. – Within a very short time, a huge reform work has been launched here, and this was necessary because otherwise health care for the citizens of our country might not have been so guaranteed in the medium term. The present health report, ladies and gentlemen, shows that we are largely on the right path. After all, we have managed that this important piece of social security will continue to remain open to all citizens and that every person will be provided when he needs it. However, this reform work must not be stopped either. It needs additions, refinements. The implementation of the Article-15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries on the health care plan has resulted in enlargements in the area of Geriatric mobilization and also in the special case of Psychiatry. These enlargements of the agreements are aimed at ensuring the optimum provision of the population with all the important hospital medicine departments through the planned reorientations of the existing institution. Health must also be of value to all of us who may be affected by illness on a daily basis. And precisely we have proved that we are not easily dealing with this good. As an internationally recognized network, health promotion could also be established in hospitals. The first Austrian conference on health-enhancing hospitals took place in 1996 with great success. Furthermore, work meetings for interested hospitals as well as seminars or relevant topics were offered within the framework of the network. Ladies and gentlemen! The improvement of training in the nursing service was a milestone. In order to ensure professional care, good and modern training is essential and can now be implemented in part. The aspects of this report were fulfilled, namely the location determination, then a comparison with the objectives we have set, but also an outlook on future activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7497	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7518	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The health report or health in that country is apparently not of great interest. Even on a fast day like Ashindi Wednesday lunch is much more important than discussing health. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: lunch is also important for health!]] You are present. You have not been mentioned, Mrs. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen! The present health report covers the reporting period from 1993 to 1995. This report was discussed on 25 July. ==References== ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! Really, snow from yesterday. Nevertheless, I would like to make a brief comment on the various chapters. – Mrs Onodi! I can't share your euphoria with you, and it's not hard for me to disprove it. You'll hear that as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Onodi.]] I have the right to read and determine the negative. In Chapter 2, health policy objectives, which are also included in the Government Declarations in 1990, 1994 and 1996 and in Article 15a, similar to the health reform in 1999, where emphasis is placed on quality assurance, precautionary medicine, the establishment of professional management, the optimal use of large-scale equipment, the legal regime for group practices, the health services and better equipment of the extramural area, in order to mention only the most important demands in the entire health care system that have long been in the room and which have been discussed repeatedly, unfortunately, very little has happened in some areas. The present health report, Mrs Onodi, cannot also be mistaken. Unfortunately, it is not possible to discuss the fact that Austria is still lagging behind in the field of economics, according to the OECD report. Mrs. Minister! In this context, I too cannot spare you the accusation that you have not yet been in no way prepared to discuss the demands of the opposition parties that have long been raised, even in the approach. Chapter 5: Health expenditure: In 1995 health expenditure amounted to 185 billion schillings. The old method of calculation was 227 billion schilling. This new method of calculation – supposedly due to OECD and EU harmonisation – reduces expenditure statistically. The reason for these reductions is that care services, veterinary medicine and certain subsidies are no longer added. This action, Mrs Minister, is a grievance tactic of the government to prevent low health costs. In this context, for example, the well-known health economist Professor Christian Köck has assured us that the exclusion of social services from the budget is an eye-catching and by no means increases the comparability with the OECD. Rather, this excluded an area that has experienced extremely high increases in health care. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Even if the new LKF system will permanently limit the spending spiral, it is critical to wait. In any event, savings potential in healthcare will not be found for so long as quality assurance and assurance are not controlled in terms of their success. Control is an important factor here, and with a so-called outcome measurement we mean the assessment of clinical and medical results, economic results and also patient satisfaction. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that medical technology and science success can only be developed if we have this control, can reduce cost pressure and if the changing demands and needs of the patients can be met. In 1998, too, Chapter 7 of the Health Report states that no legal regulations have been set up to date for both a reform of medical and nursing training. Although there are promises from the government parties as well as from you, Mrs Minister, these announcements have been emptinessed to this day. I should like to remind you once again that I have only withdrawn my request on this subject because I still believe your promises. Mrs Federal Minister, please don't let me down! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Overall, a stagnation must also be mentioned in the field of precautionary medicine. Vaccines, extension of the precautionary examination, especially in young people, are particularly important here. Consideration must be given to the mother-child passport examinations, which are known to have decreased by 10 percent, of how mothers can continue to be led to free investigations without having to distribute large gifts of money again. This is a real concern for us. Believe us, we're for the mother-child-pass examinations, but we don't believe it needs gifts for that. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I am entirely of your opinion!]] Thank you, my colleague. It is also to be criticised that no further measures are planned in general precautions, and for the time being I put it in the room, whether it would be advisable to grant a bonus in health insurance contributions to all those who regularly take such a precautionary examination. Furthermore, while the edition of new "alcohol books" is plausible, certainly expensive, the fact is that alcohol abuse is constantly increasing – unfortunately among young people and women. Unfortunately, the confession "therapy instead of punishment" of the new drug law remains a lip confession, as long as sufficient funds are not provided by the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as health promotion in firms and schools is concerned, I would like to point out that we believe that it would be better to examine these benefits and their effectiveness to this extent. If one knows that only businesses of 100 employees spend around 1.2 billion schilling each year and that the required use of security forces applies equally to dangerous and less dangerous plants, then there may certainly be a questionable questioning here. In Austria, an EU directive, which is in itself useful, has been implemented in a form that partially imposes on businesses hearing costs and is forcing entrepreneurs to rationalise employees as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to be misinterpreted here. My criticism is not directed against the protection of workers in the field of health care, but against the methods and excessive costs. Even in schools where public support is financed, not everything is best done in view of the large number of damage to attitude, obesity or carousal teeth. For example, if, on average, only half a minute per student in compulsory schools is planned for an examination, then there is little hope of school-care even in the future. I therefore believe that the school doctors should also be more involved in teaching, but above all this requires more time for the doctors, who could be important partners in early detection, even in physical diseases. Finally, I would like to say that the present health report is a valuable documentation of facts which, as in the first health report, do not show any new knowledge or improvements in our health care. For this reason, we Liberals reject this report. Ladies and gentlemen! On the third item on the agenda, report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 412/A (E) by Mr Pumberger, I would like to say that we are fully in line with this motion for a resolution. The Vaccination Act is incomprehensible, imprecise and contradicts the principle of legal certainty and the requirements of consumer protection. However, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, I believe that the time limit is 1. On your part, on your part, May 1997, I am not able to have any more validity, so today I am bringing in the motion for a resolution - I admit - with a change of date in the wording of this proposal by the Liberals. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7637	This application has been properly filed, filed and is under negotiation. Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7662	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Mother! We fast, and to the extent you will recognize it – at the end of the Lent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing, and we notice it especially when it is bad for us. If we are sick, we find that health is actually the highest good. Thank God we have been able in recent years and decades to push back largely the horrors of infant mortality, of disease, of epidemics in the Western world. Nevertheless, we cannot rest on the laurels we have achieved, but we must develop new preventive strategies, as confirmed by the health report. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Health costs are constantly rising. The financial burden for health care was 4.4 percent of gross domestic product in 1960, 7.9 percent in 1980, and now it has risen to 9 percent. I believe that this height is not yet the end. There will be a need for dramatic expenditure. This shows the corresponding demographic indicators – you think only of the age pyramid, which is an eminent challenge to health, especially in the coming decades. The growing leisure society produces more and more recreational accidents with the corresponding consequences. Here, as well as throughout health care, preventive strategies and new ideas are needed. In the context of preclinical activity, emergency medicine is of particular importance. It is precisely through the first emergency measure that major consequences can be prevented and lives saved. That is why I am also representing the demand that the first-aid training, such as the one-time training, should already be given in school. Before the doctor arrives, many damage may have occurred. The first aid, the first handle, the first right action is crucial for a life or even for the corresponding damage that may occur in non-reacting. Another one has just been launched. Mrs Minister, I am pleased that the rescuer is given a professional image and that the relevant legal documents are already available. I also think that an emergency medical training in medical studies is very important. When the doctor comes fresh from the university, he is expected to take certain emergency medical steps. We have not yet succeeded – I would like to put this as a criticism in the room – in increasing the corresponding health sparings or social sparings to satisfaction. We have not yet succeeded in preparing the periphery accordingly in order to be able to pass through this LKF system, in all consequence, so that not so many patients should be taken to the hospital or the patients should be released accordingly early. The requirement for health professions in education and training requires a change away from pure natural science medicine to a holistic thinking. I think 40 to 60 percent – which is not so conscious of us at all – of the diseases have psychosomatic causes. This must be incorporated into our entire health system and into our entire health care system. However, in order to continue to meet the demand for high-quality health care and care, policies must also consider strategies that will strengthen self-responsibilities. I am thinking of a healthy way of life, which affects the state of health by 37 percent, or of the help of the many volunteers in rescue and emergency services. A study by Professor Barolin on the subject "What do Mrs and Mr Öster think of her health system" showed that the main reason for dissatisfaction is the negative treatment with the patient as a person. On the other hand, the question of self retention is of very minor importance to the respondents. Mr Pumberger! This does not really matter in this survey at all. This is a sign to me that no high technology can replace human use and that we must strive to meet the most profound human needs for care and respect also in the relationship doctor - patient or nurse - patient. The policy must also be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7735	Mrs Haidlmayr is now speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7756	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The health report we are discussing today – it has already been mentioned a few times today – concerns the period 1993 to 1995. How great the interest is in a paper that actually belongs to the past is seen, I believe, in the presence in the plenary room. It is also quite clear that SPÖ's health spokesperson no longer gives any position on this matter at all. There is simply no word from the speaker. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: There are six more! We are a political group.]] This is actually a sign that it is embarrassing for you to talk about this issue today or about this report, which contains almost no important data and is also urural. Mrs. Minister! Although the health report includes extensive health statistics for the stationary sector, there is a lack of health reports on the outpatient sector, the established area. There's nothing to be found in that. For example, the health report does not say which diseases have people who were not in the hospital with doctors. Although there is a hospital discharge statistics, there is no record of why the people were in the hospital. The health report also does not include anything on the subject of "healthy nutrition". The health report does not include any points which have already been required before 1991 in recasting the health report in Austria. All of this is not included in this health report. The power of this health report is almost non-existent. Mrs. Minister! On the other hand, in the new health care system, in the LKF, we already face the costs of it again. They know that there is an abuse of the fact that people are classified with other points than they should actually have for their illness in the hospital sector. They know that there are huge defects in the billing systems and that the requirements originally imposed on the LKF are usually not met at all and the LKF threatens to fail again in the initial phase. These problems are now being left out, we are simply leaving this up, and in five or six years we will be discussing the 1997 LKF. Then maybe it will be said: This is already ancient, basically, has hardly changed anything; the costs are becoming more, the health status of the Austrians has essentially not improved, and also towards prevention has happened almost nothing in recent years. Mrs. Minister! I expect a health report and the Greens expect it to provide an information: that it provides an information on health care in Austria. But this information does not include this report. As long as it is not intended to include this information in a health report, we will never know, for example, which diseases accumulate in certain regions or where they occur less. I think that is exactly what must be the point. Finally, there must be the willingness to determine once what diseases occur in certain areas. It is only through this form of recording and this form of documentation that it is possible to look at whether certain diseases are not environmentally friendly and what environmental measures need to be taken to reduce certain diseases again. But such important measures have absolutely no place in this health report. And that this is not only a misbehavior from the past, it also clearly shows itself by the example of Dukovany. Mrs. Minister! You know that Dukovany, which is only 35 kilometres away from our border, is a huge threat to the Austrian population. Austria has been able to make an appropriate input for 14 days and to comment on Dukovany. Nothing has happened to this day. They know that nuclear deposits are to be tripled there and that the risk to the population and to health risks increases enormously. But no comment is made at all, no response at all. I believe that these are the important signs of the time that must be recognized and dealt with in the health field now. We now have to take action so that we do not sit here in 10, 15 years and discuss how to reduce the risks to health, the new diseases that result, what we need to change in the health system, and what additional costs grow up because we have not taken account of new threats and have not responded to them. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you, in this debate today, to make a clear statement on Dukovany, because I think it is about the health of all Austrians, and it is a threat to us. You need to eliminate this threat as a Minister of Health. Because I think it is crucial how the Austrian health policy will react to Dukovany and what opportunities the Austrians have to reduce this threat. You are on the train, and you have the opportunity to set a corresponding accent and tell us how it will look for Austria in relation to Dukovany. Mrs. Minister! The health report contains, for example, nothing at all about the effects of Chernobyl. It does not state to what extent Austria was affected by the fact that it was even affected which diseases have accumulated since Chernobyl et cetera. There's nothing in there about that. I think it is very important that these areas and these data are recorded very well in the next health report, which I hope will not be discussed three years later in Parliament. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that only if you are willing to support this motion for a resolution can it be possible to obtain data for the next health report, with which we can actually start something and on the basis of which you, Mrs Minister, also have the opportunity to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7817	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr has just been tabled, has been sufficiently supported and included in the negotiations. Mrs. Hostasch has now made a statement. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7841	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment on the agenda items that have been discussed and on the second health report in principle. This second health report, as mentioned in the debate, covers a reporting period from 1993 to 1995, and thus a period during which primarily my predecessor took over responsibility for the order and ultimately also the constitution. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Exbundesminister Dr. Krammer very much for having been the preparer for this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would like to reject the criticism that has been made, namely that no current references have been made. If someone reads this health report carefully, it is clear to him that, where we had available data, it was tried to advance to 1997 and bring about as much up-to-date as possible, although we all know, I believe, that reports are always a problem that cannot be presented on a daily basis. However, I should like to point out that my area provides a lot of information on health and statistics. I believe that it is also important for reports to maintain their legibility and not to obtain a volume that makes it almost impossible for someone to receive specifically the information he needs for his political work or also for his expert work. I therefore ask for understanding that in the future we will not be able to achieve all the requests for information in a report, nor will we want to do so because I believe that an understanding of the information is important in order to give a report the appropriate value. However, I should like to point out that there is a number of important information in my section, such as the Health Statistic Yearbook, which is being made together with the ÖSTAT, whose latest edition has only just been published. It is also published by the Social Security Service the Statistical Manual, which, I believe, is an integral part of information and also of opinion-building for the ladies and gentlemen. However, a lot of data material, as well as basic material, such as the last study by Professor Badelt, is also available from the field of care. Finally, I would also like to refer to the report of the labour inspectorate, which is being sent to the House over and over again. We have recently published or sent out the report on the social situation, and the next Social Committee will deal with the Social Report and, if necessary, lead the House to joint deliberations. In any case, this presentation, I believe, makes it clear that targeted access to comprehensive information is useful and possible. Allow me to draw on some of the key points in the health report, which I believe are worth mentioning. . We can see that in the period under review the life expectancy of Austrians has improved further. With reference to 1995 men have a life expectancy of 73,54 years, and with regard to the life expectancy of women, for the first time the 80. Year of life exceeded: 80.05 years of life are listed here. This means that, according to these statistics and latest findings, a woman today 60 years old has an additional 22.9 years of age; with a man today 60 years of age, the expected size is 18.87 years. It is the interest of health policyists and all those in health care that these years too are years worth living, and we are constantly trying to adapt to the latest developments with regard to the quality of health care. This concerns not only the medical, but also the nursing side of our health care system. I would like to remind you of a second factor: Infant mortality has also continued to decline. If in 1985 we had a infant mortality of 11.2 permills of infants who died at 1,000 births, this figure in 1995 was 5.4 per milligrams, which, as I believe, is a clear proof of a good common health policy. It can therefore be said that the state of health of the Austrian population has improved further in terms of life expectancy and infant mortality, and that we have tangible successes when compared with other countries. I also think it is important that today – and it has already been pointed out by the speakers in the debate that we need to develop further initiatives in the field of prevention, health promotion – a law will be passed in this House – I assume that it will give us additional opportunities to strengthen this positive development. During the period under review, we were able to expand and improve the range of services offered in health care in many areas. I would just like to refer to the question of the closure of supply gaps in the field of established doctors, the increased creation of jobs throughout health care, and not least to better education in health care. In fact, last year the House passed a very important law on health and health care professions, which updated the quality standards for training. I therefore believe that the effectiveness and social balance of our health system is an example internationally and that the steps that the High House adopted in 1993 – our health care system is gradually being converted to this programme – are also in the right direction. I would also like to address the allegations of low efficiency and the high cost of our health care. If the OECD is brought as an example of criticism, it must be said that the OECD report is an excellent witness to our health care system. It clearly shows those weaknesses which we have recognised ourselves, but it clearly states that we are going the right way with the measures which have been started here and which are being continued gradually, and that these measures are precisely those proposed by the OECD on the basis of international experience. The cost of health care has been addressed. I should like to recall the following on the question of the calculation of health costs. Some time ago, in order to obtain comparable data across Europe, a harmonised calculation of health expenditure was carried out, and in this recalculation, the health expenditure that we defined according to our old method of calculation with a cost factor of 9.6 percent has fallen to 8.1 percent and thus to a comparable value with other countries. However, I would like to express very clearly that there has not been any reduction in performance or deterioration in the overall health system, but only a change in the methods of national accounts. After the new calculation, for example, care services, veterinary services, sickness compensation are no longer included in the definitions; we had previously included this in our calculation. Compared with other OECD countries, we are just above the average and can therefore, from my point of view, refer to a high-performance, very efficient health care that we can be proud of. We must also make daily efforts to further develop this quality, performance and efficiency in the future. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] I would also like to address some kind of debate. – Mr Leiner has referred it to the rescuers. It is important to me that we come to a common profession on the issue of rescuers and that we can also create clarity and legal clarity for this group. We are working very intensively with all the groups involved, and I am trying to be so far in the summer that we can go into the review with a draft law in order to achieve this, as I believe, common concern for a positive solution. I would also like to speak briefly to Mr Pumberger. He complained that the subject of veterinary medicine and also the nutrition issues were not included in the health report. – This was not the subject of the health report either in the past, and we had no reason, not least due to the clear task of the health centre, to address this subject area separately, for which another department is now responsible. However, I should like to reject a comment very clearly. In connection with health insurance and the presentation of the costs, the development of costs and the financial needs of health care, I believe "trick" figures have been spoken of. There are hardly any institutions in our state, in our democracy, which are as transparent as the social security institutions' actions, so many times controlled from the various sides to the Court of Auditors, and it is therefore unjustified to speak here of "tricked" figures! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to support you, since, as a responsible health and social policyist, we should have great interest in the fact that health insurance companies have the financial means to be able to provide their insured, non-contributors with those benefits which a modern, democratic, and socially developed state rightly requires from its institutions. And to do that, we need the appropriate financial equipment. However, it is also necessary to ensure that health insurance companies are not suddenly illiquid with a wave of flu or an unpredictable cost burden, and thus may not be able to fulfil benefits which are very important to the insured. That's why I'm asking you never to talk about "winners" in health insurance. It is the funds of the insured persons who are used to provide services that are essential to health care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to allow myself, even if Mr. Dr. Pumberger is not in the room at the moment... [[Abg. Meisinger: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He only left his place!]] Sorry, I didn't see you there. I'm glad for you, Doctor. – You have addressed the problem of foreign patients and the question of settlement. A success could be achieved in so far as we were now able to adopt the Health and Social Aid Act in the Council of Ministers, as a result of which with 1. In January 1998, it was amended that the loss resulting from the reduction of aid could in fact be charged to foreign institutions as treatment costs, and that was the decisive factor in the negotiations with the countries, which the Federal Government is taking over in favour of the national funds. As far as the question of 1997 is concerned, further discussions are needed, as the question of the collection of the issues and the political solution with the countries still need to be clarified. But as far as future development is concerned, I believe we have been able to solve this problem in a satisfactory way. It was primarily in the Ministry of Finance, and I am very glad that the Minister of Finance has accepted the subject in this form. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: I hope that the health report – even if some information is not contained – is an important basis for your political activity, and I would like to thank all those who have helped to achieve it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7921	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Buder has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7946	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin my debate on the health report with an Arabic proverb, which reads: Health is a crown on the heads of the healthy, who only sees a sick person. We are all called to ensure that this crown remains radiant. I mean, this health report is a location determination of Austrian health care. It is easy to read, informative and clear, and it maintains the health status of the Austrian population. I am not of the opinion of my previous speaker, Mrs Haidlmayr, who seems to have chosen only the negative from this report, because this health report, as Mrs Motter said, is a valuable documentation, and this valuable documentation can be further built on health policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mrs Haidlmayr points out that our health care officer will not speak on this item on the agenda, I must remind her that six Members will talk about it, and everyone will make his contribution. That the issue is important to him, this shows his presence here in the hall, as opposed to your group: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It's just you and colleague Moser in the plenary room. The fact that the health status of the Austrian population has improved during the period under review has already been said by the Federal Minister. The life expectancy of the Austrians has increased, and infant mortality has fallen in ten years from 11.2 Promille to 5.4 Promille. So it's 5.7 Promille – more than half! – to which infant mortality has decreased. Since speaking time in connection with this comprehensive report is relatively short, I would like to confine myself to a number of health promotion and health care issues. Not only in the 1996 Government Declaration, already in the 1994 Government Declaration, were the objectives of Austrian health policy – including the strengthening of health awareness through health promotion and further education and also improved prevention. People should be more intensively informed about the responsibility for their own health and their potential risk posed by disease-related risk factors. Of course, policy can only create the environment, the actual implementation is ultimately the responsibility of each and every one. The public hand can inform and provide health care and health promotion services – and we do. Of these offers, Austria has a wide range. I would just like to point out that this is very important to me in the precautionary examination which was launched in 1974. The studies consist of the same basic study for men and women, which provides for a gynecological examination for women as an additional offer. The present report shows that the precautionary investigations are increasingly being used: If there were still 347 341 persons who had undergone this basic investigation in 1990, it was already 503 483 in 1995, five years later. This is an increase of almost 45 percent, and I think that is very welcome. I do not think, as Mrs Motter did, that there should be rewards or bad points for this. I believe that everyone must know what he is doing and that it is important to undergo this health examination. Austria is also involved in the European network for occupational health promotion, and I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, of a good example from Styria. There, the Chamber of Labour organizes health days in the establishments under the motto "Yes to my health". In the establishments, free measurements of blood pressure, blood sugar, cholesterol are carried out, in addition there is a hearing and vision test as well as a lung function test. Through these studies, staff will receive a health passport on which the test results will be registered, and they will also be advised, if there are diseases, to go to the home physician and to correct these defects. The fact that health care is valuable to us, of course, also shows the growth rates of health expenditure. The Minister has also said that they have increased disproportionately over the gross domestic product: Health expenditure increased by 7.5 percent in ten years, while gross domestic product only increased by 4.5%. I believe that our high quality health care must also be maintained and improved for the future. A step towards this will be the health promotion law to be adopted today, and this report is also a basis for this. We from the Socialist Group very much agree with this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8019	Mrs Povysil is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8040	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to deal with the figures of this health report today, which, as you yourself said, Mrs Minister, have quite a political consequence. But let us start with Chapter 2, the Health Guidelines, and let us look at the 1990 Government Declaration. There it says: The tasks of the next few years and decades are now to guarantee every citizen the full range of services – from the top performance to ensuring a lifetime in dignity. As a concrete example, the health plan was already called for in 1990 – that is, for more than seven years! The Government Declaration of November 1994 states: Although Austria has one of the best health systems in the world, it is also calling for an intensive respect for the economy. Finally, the Government Declaration of March 1996 calls for a comprehensive reform of the entire Austrian health care system. Despite 100 billion schilling consolidation programmes, the Federal Government is ready to use 12 billion schilling for a proper and necessary structural reform. – Ladies and gentlemen! No further mention is made of the fact that the entire range of services is guaranteed to the public. This March 1996 represents the reform. What is the basis of the reform? – As we heard in the Government Declaration, the health system is too expensive. – What numbering pirates, ladies and gentlemen! Once it's officially called: In 1995, 227 billion schillings are spent on health – around 9.7 percent of GDP. But we know recently, as the health report says, that it was, as it were, adjusted, in line with 189 billion in the EU, i.e. around 8.1 percent of GDP. In international comparison we slided from 3rd place to 14th place. We were better in Nagano! But there are still more Kuriosa, the right oberösterreichische Schmankerln, in the pharmaceutical sector. It is reported that in 1995 some 68 percent of all authorised medicinal products were subject to prescription. If the number of medicinal products registered according to the AMG is reduced to 94 percent, the pre-precipitation rate increases to the 94% rate. In addition, the pharmaceutical sector for 1995 is based on a self-retaining of 17 percent. However, the calculation used only pharmaceutical expenditure of social security insurance without taking into account the prescription fee. This means that it actually results in a self-retaining of 20.3 percent. – Of course you can see the exact figures. So Austria is of the 3. ==References== Slipped off. It was 68% or 94% of the medicines required. It was 17 percent or 20 percent self retention. Please, who cares about what statistical basis our health care is based on? Let us once again recall the government declarations from 1990 to 1996: First of all, there was talk of a comprehensive supply of services and then only of economics and financial viability. What did you do? – One has a misevaluation – political consequence, Mrs. Minister! – exerted political pressure to do what some understand under health policy, namely to abandon genuine reforms under the pretext of the overly expensive health system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How was the health plan required in 1990? – It consists of the Austrian Hospital Plan, and implementation fails at the resistance of the regions. It consists of the Austrian large-scale device plan and has been revised for a long time, for example because CTs no longer require large-scale equipment, but are cheaper than a illuminating light. It consists of the Lowered Plan, the Care Department, Rehabilitation and Ambulance Plan. For seven years, this health plan has been called for. Do you know what to read in the 1997 Health Report? – This is where basic work is done. For seven years, basic work! A reform in which we say and write for seven years through basic work on the most important structures in the health field. Ladies and gentlemen! Wrong figures as the basis for a reform that has not taken place. Curiosis statistical deviations. Seven years nothing but basic research despite the need to create more than urgently needed structural reforms! You yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have issued this report, which is to be a guideline for the future. May the citizen judge!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8121	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8142	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The main focus of today's second health report is the location of Austrian health care. In some cases, international comparisons are also cited, and I would like to touch on that. In a resolution on public health after Maastricht, the European Parliament also pointed out the importance of having sufficient and relevant information as a basis for the development of Community action in the field of public health. The Commission has also called for increased collection of health data from Member States, for examination to be carried out in order to better coordinate health policies and to better recognise the impact. Health reporting at Community level should and should facilitate the evaluation of necessary Community programmes and measures and should also be helpful. Now on another point: Women and health. It would be desirable and more than ever necessary to prepare gender data in the future in the health report. I would like to comment on this point on behalf of my colleague Paul Kisset: Young women from the AHS-Oberpuldorf sit on the gallery. I should like to greet you on behalf of Paul Kiss, and he says that you certainly agree with this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There has never been that! There's never been that!]] But now back to the point mentioned. I said that it would be very important to involve gender-specific data even more, because women have a higher life expectancy than men – that is, always – but are subject to stronger mental and physical strains, and sometimes – and that is justified – feel sicker than men. With many diseases affecting women, there is a chance that they can be combated in the early stages. This means that we need more than ever to take care of and control. In rural areas in particular, it is true that women do not have access to it but do not create it. Therefore, a programme must be developed in addition to the formation of consciousness, in addition to this work and this presentation, especially by the specialist doctors, which creates a very easy access to these investigations. I also believe that in future health care facilities must be adapted even more than previously to the specific needs of women. The health report is an important approach to this, enriched by international experience, figures and measures. This is another step forward, so that the women who live on average for longer periods of time, but are also more heavily burdened, will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8190	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8211	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Liberal Forum, I would like to welcome not only the listeners of Oberpüllendorf, but also everyone else! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] On the health report: Mrs. Federal Minister! They praised the Labour Inspectorate's report. I will help you to make a valuable contribution. However, the problem I see in connection with labour inspection is: Why don't you inspect your own area? For example, why is it not possible to inspect laboratories at the universities that may have already been built under Maria Theresa and absolutely do not meet the minimum standards of safety? The Authority is inactive in this area insofar as it is said: You can't inspect there. We're going outside, but what's happening in the federal area isn't taking any risks in this area. Consider, too, the circumstances in which some people who work in the field of sovereignty must work in Kammern. Companies should never offer their employees such jobs. I would therefore like you to become active in the internal sector once and not just to praise the activity outside. My predecessor has referred to diseases that affect women in particular. I think this is a very exciting moment that you mentioned in your speech. I also see that there is a real gap in science as regards women between the ages of 20 and 55. There are almost no studies on drugs that are tested on women – for reasons we all know; Of course, pregnancies would endanger the assessment. On the other hand, it has been argued that the effects of drugs on women are very different from those on men. This has also been demonstrated by a heart preparation last summer. We're not doing much too much and we don't differentiate much too much. We should take into account the specific health situation of women, which is now different from that of men, or these are the reactions of the body others. I would therefore like, ladies and gentlemen, to see us working in this area. This is a field that is hardly processed internationally, as we have opportunities. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now to the requests made by Dr. Pumberger: Reporting to communicable and dangerous diseases. It is true that there are problems in this regard. It is of course true that the Creutzfeldt-Jakob syndrome can only be finally diagnosed by assessing brain cuts. Only: In the case of what you are demanding, my main problem is that you do not pay any attention to data protection at all, but with our health data there is already so much abuse. We have recently found that the data of patients treated in the AKH in recent years has simply been transported to America. Who knows under what conditions that is being done, which company is getting in hand there, which protection mechanisms are provided for so that these data are not fed into America for research firms. But nothing is done in this area. I would like you to act there. Data protection is patient protection, and it is serious to take! The next request to discuss a financial structure in the health sector is mixed by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party: Health insurance fees are mixed with the need to relieve the hospital operation, but also with the need to create more facilities for care in the established area. I think it is a wrong approach to formulate the proposal in this way. I would rather, Mr Rasinger, welcome the fact that there are cash contracts for all doctors who want one. That might be a sensible approach. Since we have to tell the media that there are months of waiting in some areas, it would be a response to the fact that we are expanding the established area and creating more opportunities where bottlenecks are involved. Those colleagues who put themselves on economic pressure and who do not stand by it go with or without cash contracts. We have enough arguments to complain about in the medical field, but that cannot be a reason for us to introduce protective mechanisms. Anyone who wants to have cash contracts should also receive them – for the benefit of the patients! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the request of Mr Pumberger, Mr Povysil, on the difficulty of accounting with foreigners. It is known that we have contracts with the EU, which means that we can subsequently collect the cash rates from the foreign guests. One problem I see in connection with this request is that, because of the benefits provided to foreigners, you see a health damage to the Austrian population. So I can't recognize this at the best of will. It is a financial problem to be resolved, and it concerns only the guests who make vacation here – and this can be solved. Mrs. Federal Minister! You must have a better line to the Minister of Finance than I do. But to use this for xenophobia, I think it's objectionable. We need these guests for our tourism companies, and I therefore wish that more will come and no less. They are not treated free of charge, of course all services are charged.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8305	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. Time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8327	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as some previous speakers are concerned, I believe that this health report is approachable. He is not only concerned with the 1993-1995 period but is working on events and decisions of health policy until 1997 and he also has prospects for our health system. This report is a reference work which seeks to do the same, ladies and gentlemen. The great interest in this report confirms my statement. Many representatives of various health professions have asked me to give them this report and have been very pleased about it. I would therefore also like to thank Mrs Federal Minister, her predecessor, and especially those officials of the department who are responsible for producing this report. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also extremely positive that this report is being discussed in the plenary on the difference between many other reports. I am always a little sad that the Social Report is already being completed in the Committee. In the budget debate, the areas of health and social affairs were discussed together – and this in a very short time – and I must say that this does not show the importance of these issues. Now to a few points: A very positive witness will be given to the health status of the Austrian population. However, we have an increase in eye diseases – one has to critically question whether this is related to the almost complete use of computer in Austria – and to the movement and support equipment. I would like these diseases to be included in the catalogue of occupational diseases at least in the long term. To develop and develop the legal bases and training in health professions: Ladies and gentlemen! One of these health professions does not once again appear in the perspectives, namely the health care service, the storage and support association technicians. I already know that they are running as operating assistants; as operating assistants, they are also better protected by law. What I miss, however, is security, for example, as a plasterer. In an accident hospital, 80 to 100 plaster associations are set up on a morning. No doctor controls how the plaster associations were actually created, the people go out like this. The plasterer is responsible! And we have to do something for this group. I will not get tired of demanding it again and again, even if I would like to mention positively that there has been something happening with the MTDs, with the midwives. The Health and Hospital Care Act, but also the regulation for cardio technicians cannot be praised high enough. I got a letter asking myself if this is really necessary for such a small group of professionals. I say: Yes, it is necessary because one cannot leave it to these people without any legal protection of heart lung machines. To the Austrian Hospital and Large Equipment Plan, to be merged in 1996 and to the Ambulance Performance Plan to be created: The aim is the need for justice. When I drive through Austria and see what construction measures are being put in place, especially in standard hospitals where there is always a little fear of being locked up, I think that the countries do not take the fulfillment of the Article 15a agreement particularly seriously. That should be questioned. It is also necessary to ask the following questions: The legal requirements have been created, but I believe that the Medical Working Time Act will also be somewhat undermined. Now a few words on Mr Pumberger's request for "threaty hospitalisation through new financial structures". This request is subject to the circumvention of the health certificate fee, i.e. the patient's direct contact with the hospital hospital and the result is a small number of days' stay in the hospital, but after that no one would be released from the hospital's health. I've got a "Kurier" article from 19. February 1998 – that is not very old yet – with a graphic "Wiener Spitalsambulanzen. [[the speaker holds a newspaper section in the height]] Where the patients come from: Assigned by the practical doctor 26 percent, by the specialist 17 percent and follow-up after your stay 23 percent." – That is two thirds, ladies and gentlemen! So Mr Pumberger's comments cannot be accepted. However, the fact that he is trying to make the new financial structures out of his mind has once again been missed. And at all: Almost all parliamentarians – whatever the group – have known and praised the blessings of the Austrian health system more than once. I do not wish to deny this, even as far as I am concerned. After my hip operation, I am very happy about our health system. Let us bear in mind that, if we are reproached here in Parliament, we are very quick to be well assured so that we can be taken home from every country in the world if we are sick or have an accident. Because then suddenly the Austrian health system is the yellow of the egg. We should not forget this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8378	Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moserzu has now been reported. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8403	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to make anything ready, just: If you take this health report to hand and read it, you always find the word "plan": This plan is missing, that plan is missing – specifically said: The establishment plan is outstanding, the hospital clinic plan is still outstanding, the care plan is missing, the Austrian health plan is still in the stars, the plan for the rehabilitation facilities is not yet prepared. There is also no plan for neuro-rehabilitation. The medical care as such is not yet documented in the plan, and especially as regards mental care there are still large white spots. I do not want to say that Austrian health care is planless, just: The report documents planlessness. I also do not want to make the health care final, but there is a lack of an Austrian health policy, which is centrally advanced and planned and horizontal. Due to the financial restructuring, federalisation has been added to the health care system, and this is now a lot of cost. Mr Rasinger rightly pointed out that, in particular, the treatment of foreign patients in hospitals is at the expense of our contributors, that they are no longer asked to cash out on account of the federalisation of the KRAZAF and that, in general, the Austrians bear their treatment costs. This deficit, which is not reflected in this health report, is however a consequence of the destruction of the KRAZAF and of the overall Austrian central coordinated health care system. Here, Mrs Minister, you must definitely remedy this problem and also ensure that it is replaced. I would like to take a brief look at the field of psychiatry, because it seems to me very important. Mr Leiner has also pointed out that many diseases are psychosomatic. In this context, it is, of course, sad to read that only 0.85% of the Austrian population receive appropriate psychiatric care, although in itself there is a need of more than 5 percent. So there is a discrepancy of over 4 percent in the supply. In addition, there is the great East-West gap; especially in Burgenland there is a small range of psychiatric care. There, this health care is underrepresented. The financial aspect of psychiatric care should also not be forgotten: Only one third of patients can use psychiatric services virtually without additional payment; the other two thirds have to pay for this psychiatric treatment themselves. This is a very high social barrier, and I think it is not good for you to accept it simply as a social minister, as a member of the Social Democratic Party, this under-supply and financial cost-effectiveness. There is a need for action – as is the case with patient rights – because the Charter has not yet been adopted. I know that this is partly due to the indebtedness of the countries, but there is still an indebtedness insurance of doctors. However, what is still outstanding is the guarantee of the basis of life in the field of health care. In fact, it is tolerated that in front of our doorstep – as has already been noted today – not far away from Vienna, in Dukovany, a very dangerous reactor, combined with an intermediate warehouse, is in operation. This reactor is so dangerous that in 1996 alone more than 76 incidents occurred, four of which are already attributable to the 1st phase of the accident. There were still 54 shortcomings in the operating system – in 1996 alone. In all, the reactor had to be shut down six times unplanned and shut down. The government's attitude is to tolerate this health threat! On the other hand, we want Greens to take action. Therefore, in the field of health care, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call for this request to be accepted at the time of the vote. This is a massive health care instrument available to us. To ensure that the Federal Government finally becomes active and also active in health policy, I am seeking acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8491	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gabriela Moser just now is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8518	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Today, we are discussing the 1997 health report, which is quite informative and meaningful, although it is a part of the opposition. I would like to say to those ladies and gentlemen that not only can we wait patiently until every two or three years a health report is presented to the House, but, of course, as a parliamentarian, we have the obligation to inform ourselves of the trends in hospitals in the area, in the health sector, in the health sector, in the doctors and, of course, in the ministry, so that it does not take two years again until finally a health report is presented in which we can read something. However, the present health report is not only informative and meaningful, it is Ladies and gentlemen, but also reflects the achievements of the Federal Government in this area of health policy. I have already presented this in detail in November of last year on the occasion of the health debate in the House, and of course I would like to confirm this again. Mrs Povysil has today claimed that the Federal Government would only mention costs and put the performance aspect in the background. . I can tell you, Mrs Colleague, that your statement is fundamentally wrong. Of course, the Federal Government has the task of keeping in mind the cost development in the health sector, which is a non-indebted amount that is spent every year. It would be almost negligent and irresponsible if a forward-looking and planning policy did not do so. However, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, not only the costs will be kept in mind, but also the continuous expansion and expansion of services. You can believe me the following: The Austrian citizens can very well assess the value of this health system, because a recent survey has shown that some 82% of Austrians agree with the social system in Austria. I admit, of course, you can always work on it so that there are even better values, but we social democrats are already happy if... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Of course, Mrs. Mother, that is quite clear. Now a few words on the comments made by Mr Pumberger, who spoke briefly today about the hospital burden and in a press release made the failure of the hospital financing reform appear. He said there that the introduction of hospital financing did not, as expected, reduce the length of stay in the hospitals and strengthen the out-of-spital areas. – Mr. Dr. Pumberger! The first part of this statement is fundamentally wrong! This is simply not true, for it has even resulted in a very strong reduction in the length of the stay. The second part of your claim that there has not been any strengthening of the out-of-spital areas other than the extra-mural services is also conditionally correct. It is true that there is still a need for rethinking. The Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities are currently engaged in this field as well. I can assure you that great progress will also be made there. Very briefly on the comments made by Mr Haidlmayr: It has said that the introduction of performance-oriented financing has led to an increase in the cost of health care. – That’s not right because, as you know, the costs are covered. Even if it is assumed that some lawyers have extended the system of performance-oriented hospital financing for their benefit – in order to formulate it very decisively – then this procedure has been stopped by the introduction of the cover. Finally: The health report is exhaustive and meaningful. I would like to thank the Minister and her staff for having presented this good work to Parliament for its decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8579	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8600	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! "The healing power of laughter" is entitled "Medicine Popular". [[The speaker keeps the above magazine up to date.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are happy to smile and laugh at this health report. But you should know that I can only refer this healing force subjectively to you if you laugh at what this report says. We liberals give you this laugh, we give you the health: However, they should not explore the fact that this does not automatically cross the report and its figures on the health of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They use two indicators to prove the good health status of the Austrians, namely the growth of the age of life and the decline in infant mortality. These are undoubtedly internationally recognized parameters, but, Mrs. Federal Minister, apart from the fact that the Austrians are just below the EU average in terms of life, but still high enough to account for doctors at least, you should not overlook the question of how old you get, but how you get old, as Professor Prokop taught us. One could also read in the newspaper "Die Presse" in an article that deals with the health report, summarizingly, that the Austrians are getting older and sicker. – This is the impression that this already slightly yellowed health report gives us. Mrs Bundesminister, do not be deceived by the figures, especially by the figures of the aging of the Austrians! A health report must be based not only on these characteristics, but also on the state of health of the Austrian youth, the Austrian school youth. The few lines in this report say something terrible in this respect – I deliberately call it so. They say that one third of the students have an anomalies of attitudes at the 12th level – these are figures from the report. However, these dramatic data were already expanded and published by the school doctors in September 1997. These are things you must not overlook. It must not be enough to say: The Austrians are getting older and older. Mrs Bundesminister, take Once out this – and only this – parameter so that you can then determine how it really is about the health condition of our youth! I have already tried in committee to expand your horizon in this regard as simply looking at school youth – and in particular looking at body education in schools – should be tightened and intensified. We liberals have been very strong for a long time in order to organize a daily tour in the Austrian schools. In the course of these efforts, we would like to make the following request on the occasion of this report: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution deals with the fact that, unfortunately, since August 1996, the health statistics have been eliminated from the Central Statistical Office. It is known that, on the basis of an answer from the chancellor, officials are now producing mortality statistics, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in this reply to the Bundesrat, it is announced that these health statistics are to be resumed. It is therefore not difficult for you, Mrs Federal Minister, to join this request in substance. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8738	Both motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Grollitsch are sufficiently supported and will be the subject of the negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8763	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment briefly on the repeated criticism of the opposition. I believe that the 1997 health report is a huge package of information which, of course, needs to be prepared accordingly. The report is highly up-to-date in many areas. I believe that, despite the change in the health sector, this report could still be presented at a good time. I am pleased that the report is essentially very positive, and I believe that this is also justified, especially as it provides a comprehensive and comparative overview of the Austrian health system, which also shows weaknesses and prospects on the one hand. A lot of content has already been discussed in detail, so I can limit myself to a few points. Firstly, I would like to say something about expenditure on health. It should be noted that expenditure on this area is increasing more in Austria than in the European average. The annual growth rate in 1985 to 1995 was 7.5 percent, so it is 2.1 percent higher than the increase in GDP. Compared with Europe, we are up by almost a percent compared to this value. This fact has also led to a reform of the funding of hospitals, in a first step by LKF, which is intended to help to remedy this situation. Of course, it is not possible at the moment to make a final assessment as the empirical development will only allow comparable Austrian-wide post-calculation and thus provide a correspondingly well-founded data material for the future. As a further point, I would like to address the medical density. At first glance, this appears very good, especially as the number of doctors has increased by 70 percent in the last 15 years. This is also a very encouraging value compared to Europe – we are second only to Italy. At the second glance, however, the problem of regional distribution is that the density of doctors in urban centres is twice as high as in rural regions. This blatant disadvantage for the population concerned can hardly be explained at the same direct cost burden. These areas of the population rightly call for equal treatment in the field of medical care, and we will have to find solutions to this in the future. If, at the same time, it succeeds in lifting the Quasi area protection and allowing competition for doctors, this will mean more quality for patients and more jobs for young doctors. In addition to much more information, this report also gives the opportunity to draw conclusions to further development, which will also happen. I should therefore like to say in summary that this report is a comprehensive and quality report that we are happy to take note of.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8814	Mrs Konrad is the last speaker in this debate for the time being. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8835	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the period under review has been behind, as some speakers have criticised before me, this report provides a good overview of health measures, and it also shows shortcomings, which I consider to be an important task of reporting in order to be able to introduce appropriate improvements for the future. In this debate, the cost of health has already been reduced several times. In contrast to others, I find it extremely gratifying that Austria is above the EU and OECD average with its health expenditure, because at the same time we are being given a very good witness and because, as we have heard, important investments are necessary in the health sector. However, I do not share the view of the President of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Physicians – I see it completely differently – who pleads for an alternative private insurance model and at the same time puts the rod in the window when he says: If this continues, there will also be a second class outside the hospital; anyone who does not provide additional insurance will be treated worse. – It is obvious that there is already a private special-class insurance for the outpatient sector, which is to say that new medical services should only be provided in the field of private insurance, and social health insurance would only cover the basic benefits, whatever is accurate then. I am pleased that the Minister has found clear words here. In any case, we give a clear rejection to such a system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As has been said, the report is also intended to show a very conscious lack of health care and to address them in a concrete way so that changes can be made. Some suggestions from my point of view: The presentation of the health status of the population should be given a wider space in the future. More attention should be paid to the problems of abuse, even today, of occupational diseases, including psychosomatic aspects as well as the consequences of accidents and their costs in the future. One last point – my speaking time is about to end –: The large differences between women and men in the health field should be made more visible. The question of women's health centres, for example, is not mentioned in this report at all, and I think it is important to point out what benefits are offered to women and how important these women's health centres are. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8884	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting is not required. We are now coming to the votes, and I ask you to take the seats. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Health to take note of this report III-105 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report is largely taken note of. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled, first of all on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Pumberger and others on the equal treatment of foreign patients in Austrian hospitals. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the recasting of the health report. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on measures to combat the establishment of a border-near intermediate camp for highly radioactive burned fuel in Dukovany. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is also rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grollitsch and Mr Comrades on improving the health status of Austrian students. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on the continuation of the health statistics for students of the ÖSTAT. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a sign of approval. This motion for a resolution did not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. Now we are voting on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its 957 report of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. . This report is largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its report in 958 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report will be adopted by a majority. A motion for a resolution has been tabled on which we are now voting, and we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Motter and Mr Comrades on Vaccination Law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 959 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report will be adopted by a majority. 5. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1043 of the Supplements): Health Promotion Act – GfG (1072 of Supplements) 6. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (947 of Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Public Vaccines against Transmissible Child Paralysis (956 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9076	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately beginning the debate, and I am the first speaker to give Mrs Povysil the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9103	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a recent discussion on health care, one of the participants said: Perhaps instead of a health care, we have only built a technically perfect repair workshop for physical defects, which devours more and more money without making people healthier. – Certainly an interesting starting point. Consciousness for healthy living begins in the head. The way to go leads in the best case about education, but in most cases about some penetrating health experience – be it heart attack, be it stroke – in the ideal case about education. It would really be desirable if one hour a week were to be given health lessons by practical doctors in schools. It is certainly to be welcomed that this awareness-building, which is primary prevention, is being provided, even if only 100 million schillings have been made available from the previously planned precautionary billions. This money is to be provided from the VAT under the Financial Balance Act and distributed through the Healthy Austria Fund. Why, Mrs. Minister, this outsourcing? Why once again this delegation of competence from the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs? It is the responsibility of the Federal Minister to ensure the implementation and management of the health measures. What, then, is the activation of this "Healthy Austria" fund? This fund has existed since 1988 and is nothing but a database to which all health sectors have access. It has just been examined by the Court of Auditors, and it has strongly criticised the lack of a long-term health concept for subsequent health care. What is the re-establishment of an administrative apparatus for existing structures in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs and what is another curatorium in which the interests of the representatives of the interests now sit? It is also not to be seen that social security schemes do not comply with their legal obligation to take care of and finance these funds, but that they are only in the board of trustees. That's not to be seen! You're gonna give me that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Let me give you an example: In Denmark, the entire provision is financed by health insurance alone. This kind of follow-up avoidment is exemplary, but you will admit it. [[Further call of the Abg. Donabauer.]] It is to be feared that the funding projects to be coordinated between the Federal Government, the Länder, the EU and the NGOs will mask the use and allocation of funds, their task and their perceptibility. Finally – and this is actually the most important concern of all – this fund withdraws from the BMAGS of parliamentary control. Prevention, transport, transport, transport, Ladies and gentlemen, must begin in the minds of ministers, doctors and patients – and not in the wallet of each individual. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Trust is good, control is better! That's what many statesmen have said. We say: Prevention, yes, but only with control! – I know, Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Lenin said that and thus founded the Russian intelligence! With this quote I would be very careful!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9162	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9183	Mr President of the National Council! Mrs. Designated President of the Healthy Austria Fund! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an extremely encouraging day for health policy. Today, we are able to pass a law that will result in us every year in the future – year after year! – 100 million schilling are available for health and disease prevention measures. At a time when every schilling is rightly turned three times before it is issued, this is an extremely remarkable initiative, and we are very glad to be able to decide today. Ladies and gentlemen! International studies show that the health of the individual depends only to a lesser extent on the quality of the health system, and that to a greater extent the genetic programming of the individual is responsible for his health, and in a very special way the lifestyle, the circumstances under which someone lives, are important for how healthy a person is. And precisely on this point, when we promote health care measures, we use resources to do so – and we do so in a remarkable way. It is not the case that we need to reinvent the wheel. It is already true that, within the framework of its legal obligation, the main association of social security institutions makes substantial resources available. There are many significant initiatives in the countries and communities. With this 100 million schilling per anno, year after year, we want to put new impulses, new accents, we want to network initiatives. It will certainly not be the case that someone from the countries that have financed initiatives so far can lean back and say that thank God there is now this fund "Healthy Austria". What has been criticized is that this curatorium is too inflated. – I would like to reject this with all vehemence. It's not inflated! This fund "Healthy Austria" will be a moving, steerable, joint organ. The heart of this fund will be the project advisory board, and this heart consists of seven members. The essential preparatory work will be carried out here. In my view, what is very important is this prevention conference, which is to be held twice a year and to which all those interested in health policy are invited. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me summarize: This law, this donation of the "Healthy Austria" fund with an annual 100 million schilling is an excellent opportunity! Now it is up to you to take advantage of this opportunity. We are convinced that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9232	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9253	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger, you have not been able to infect me today with your excess joy. You have already failed to do so in the Committee and have not done so today. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Damage!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They are now adopting a new law, another, additional law, although we all know that Austria is overcrowded with laws and that the appeal has been repeated to all of us, but not to decide a law for everything and everyone. But all these demands, these appeals, as well as the complaints of President Fischer and Neisser in the media last December on the flood of new laws, have not benefited, because today a law is passed again, namely a "law" with only five paragraphs. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals too stand for the release of 100 million schilling from the 1998 budget for health promotion and health care, because we need increased prophylaxis in the future. Mr Rasinger! I can assure you that this is a real concern to us too. But do we need a fund solution with an overarching bureaucracy and administrative costs of 9 percent? – That means that 9 million of the 100 million Schilling go on it alone for the award of this remaining 91 million schilling. Moreover, if you know that the already existing fund "Healthy Austria" will be bloated and in the future several representatives of the country – I say consciously: also double-track! – to participate or be represented in this fund, one can certainly no longer speak of a "slender structure". In this respect, my criticisms on this fund are fully in line with the statements made by my predecessor, Mrs Povysil. If we also consider that this fund solution does not give sufficient control by Parliament and the Court of Auditors, this is another reason to reject this law. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the template: Even this template is another reason to be skeptical. The objectives of the law are listed in § 2, and there is already a clear definition of what the objectives or strategies should be to achieve these objectives, and what consequences result from them. It is also not clear to what extent the "Healthy Austria" fund, with its tasks and social security, is being crossed with its tasks. Unfortunately, the Minister in the Committee could not answer this question either. Although the proposal addresses a wide range of objectives, the funding of 100 million schillings is somewhat thin. There is already a question of whether these 100 million are sufficient. In addition, the wording of the measures is so general that the law itself cannot assess what the financial resources are to be used for. Mrs. Minister! A specific question on this matter: What is the focus this year, and how, respectively, should the priorities be set in the following years? Furthermore, Mrs Minister: We know the non-smoking and the vaccination campaign. Faith Do you not also think that it would be equally important to ensure the further development in the field of quality assurance and evaluation referred to in point 4 of § 2? In this respect – this is out of question – Austria is almost a developing country in the EU comparison. We just need to look over the border: In Germany, medical guidelines are already being developed – in part they are already in use – which have been designed by the professional associations themselves. In addition, there is a diagnostic compatriot in the field of internal medicine, in which medical treatment methods are proposed for the 15 most common indications. In this context, I would like to stress in particular the following: Patients there have access to these guidelines. In the Netherlands, there are fixed posts with patient confidence persons who together with a doctor and patient agree on the optimal treatment methods. Furthermore, patient rights in the Netherlands are much stronger than in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, if, as stated in the explanatory remarks, further cooperation on quality assurance measures and evaluation measures is to be developed in Europe, it will be important to finally look across borders and, above all, to reform the structure of the current health system. This must certainly start first and foremost with our health insurance companies. This too gives us half of Europe! It has been proved that a conditional competition among insurance companies is the engine for greater quality assurance and the sensible use of the funds. Ladies and gentlemen! We also do not know what criteria the focus should be on in the coming years. The statutes are not known. It is therefore not possible to assess how and to select projects supported by whom and according to what criteria. It is also to be feared that the Board of Directors of the Fund will consist of the same stakeholders who are already in the institutions of statutory social security schemes. I therefore believe that the requirement to also send representatives of the parties represented in the National Council to the board of trustees is justified. For if the promotion of health is to become a national and common goal, it would be most useful to involve political forces with their ideas. Finally, from the point of view of the Liberals, I note that overall the need, content and, above all, the design of this law must be strongly questioned. Unfortunately, we cannot prevent this law, but we will control exactly what will happen to the 100 million schillings.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9299	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9320	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Motter has just put the doubts, fears and possible negatives in the foreground. I can calm you down, Mrs Colleague: I think this law will be a step in the right direction. If we look at the financial flows, the funds for Austrian health care – 192 billion schilling in total, 100 billion schilling for hospitalization – then we have to say that expenditure on health care is simply too high. It cannot be the objective of the Austrian health policy that a white bed is guaranteed for every person at any time. I can't do that! [[Abg. Mother: I didn't ask for that!]] If we want to somehow deal with the old-age addicts we all welcome, we have to consider: What can we do to keep us healthy for as long as possible and grow old as possible, mentally and physically healthy? – I think everything else has to be secondary. It is really naïve to believe that we can live wrong for a whole lifetime, eat cross and cross, drink, smoke and not move, and that then the doctors in the hospitals can somehow clean up the whole operation. That's like a pitcher. Once he is broken, even if he is glued, he is no longer the same! I don't want to talk about it now, but as a doctor, I always experience that patients say: "Didn't I be able to do this sooner? Why didn't anyone tell me that?" And on this "Why didn't anyone tell me that?" I would now like to go into more detail. I claim that in Austria every car has better than a patient. A car is regularly cleaned from the inside and outside and has to be brought to the service once a year, otherwise there will be no "pickerl". In Austria, however, the body of a patient does not have these rights! But this law is a step in the right direction. Like every positive law, it has many fathers – but this law also has a dear mother. Mrs. Hostasch! In my opinion, it was a very important decision of yours to participate in this law and make it the focus of your work. You will see you will have a lot of joy with this child! I would also like to thank our Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, who convinced the initially hesitant smoker and Minister Edlinger that it is important to invest in this area. However, I would also like to see the staff, first and foremost Mrs. Dr. Mr Pracha as well as Mr Kunyik and Mrs Marte, who have worked hard and worked out the statutes during the night. I think it is not quite fair if it is claimed here that this fund would once again only have the same interests as in social security and the fund would be bloated. – I mean, the fund and the law including the statutes are really comprehensible and can be seen! I would like to mention three important points. First: Through the whole of the law and through the whole new fund, the spirit of cooperation is to move. We cannot give up on the many initiatives already under way in this area! Secondly, We all have to get involved. Prevention is still a small plant. There would be no point in competing with state funds, for example, the aid for cancer. On the contrary: We must strive for this plant to grow better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Above all, we want to inform and motivate. We cannot prescribe to the citizen what he has to eat and decide whether he is smoking or not. We just want to help ourselves! In view of the fact that 50 percent of the 18-year-olds smoke today and around one-third of the adult population smoke, I think there is a great need for action from the point of view of health policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you take surveys seriously, you know that about 25 percent of the population are willing to do something for health, and are interested in it. Another 50 percent are interested, but do nothing yet. In other words, we have a great opportunity to work in this area. The typical Austrian statement: "I taste it! We all have to die once!" Should belong to the past, as I say. It is precisely this kind of person who say to me: "Mr. Doctor, couldn't you have done something?" – Health is just the highest good. Thank God we do not all remember every day, just as I have to think of it every day as a doctor. But if we are about to lose health, we are very glad that we have a good supply. In my opinion, however, it would still have failed if we weren't even sick. The goal must be to get healthy old! At an average age of 80 for women and 73 for men, today, as I mean, this is really a mega-task! Three short examples: Because I see Mr Exminister Lösnak, who is very committed to sports, I would like to give the first example of the movement. There is no medicine in the world that is as good as movement! [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Bravo!]] One can thereby reduce cardiovascular mortality, and say the latest studies – that will You don't know –: It can also reduce the risk of breast cancer – the most common cancer in women – dramatically! Secondly, A healthy diet with lots of vegetables, salads, milk and whole grain products reduces the heart attack rate by 40 percent and the cancer rate by 40 percent, my dear farmers! Thirdly, Chapter Smoking. 30 percent of all cancers, 11,000 cancers, and 16,000 premature deaths each year are due to them. On average, a smoker loses eight years of life expectancy. [[Abg. Böhacker: You must tell the Minister of Finance!]] Or breast cancer: Over 4,000 diseases per year, each tenth woman is ill. 50 percent of the disease could be avoided by early trials. I think we have to do something! Mrs. Minister! In my opinion, we also need to involve social security. It's not supposed to come in parallel to a new bureaucracy. I think it is unfair to talk about new interests. This is not fair to this young law: I am confident and very interested in its implementation. We offer cooperation on the part of the ÖVP so that this "plan" prevention becomes an international feature – in addition to our already successful areas of rehabilitation, outpatient care and hospitals with which we do not have to hide worldwide!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9413	Mrs Haidlmayr, would you like to speak? You have 10 minutes of voluntary speaking time. You start with your remarks now and then continue later. All right, thank you. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9434	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Health Promotion Act is basically not bad from its approach. But the problem that the Health Promotion Act brings with it is that only over 100 million schilling are left of the amount of 1 billion shilling for the health promotion programme that was planned years ago. If you look at the palette, what is to be done in the field of health promotion law – starting from the sect care to the smoking education of children and prevention in all areas – then I personally cannot imagine how it should work with this relatively small sum. At the same time, this Health Promotion Act already states that 9 percent of these 100 million schillings are exclusively in the administration. This seems to me to be particularly problematic. Mr Löschnak has already announced in a press release today that he is concerned about the use of these funds, because only a fixed amount has already been set for the administrative burden. For all other areas that need to be integrated into health promotion, there is almost no cost allocation. Where the money then loses or does not lose, one will only see behind, and I think that is actually a bad approach to what I mean, but very important law. The second area we are discussing today is the area of protection vaccinations. Mrs. Minister! There is nothing against the fact that protective vaccinations are now being offered in the so-called five-pack. You can do that. The question is: What if someone does not want to undergo a fivefold vaccination, but perhaps only two or three vaccinations? How will individual vaccinations be ensured in the future? – Ms. Minister! This security is no longer available. You know exactly that, since the so-called tri-vaccination combination is available, the two-vaccination is no longer offered. That is to say, the pharmaceutical industry has a very lucrative further source of revenue in the future, because one is now facing the possibility of either five vaccinations or none at all. Mrs. Minister! We would very much like to agree to this vaccination law, but this can only be done on condition that you support our motion for a resolution. This requires that the individual vaccinations continue to be offered. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you support this motion for a resolution and thus ensure that individual vaccinations are possible in the future, we Greens can sign the new vaccination law. But if you cannot ensure that, then we are not able to accept this bill because we believe that it would only increase the profits of the pharmaceutical industry, but would limit the freedom of choice of the individual. And we don't want to let that happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9505	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Do you want to continue your speech later or is there Your contribution ended? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I'm done!]] Thank you. The motion for a resolution you have tabled is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I am now interrupting the sitting for a minute, so that we can begin to deal with the urgent request at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9538	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Dr. Volker Kier, Dr. Hans Peter Haselsteiner, Mag. Helmut Peter, Klara Motterand comrades on the repair of the social security obligation for "Free service contracts" and "New self-employed" (686/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9583	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 686/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9885	I now give the floor to Mr Dr Kier as an applicant for urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e9909	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The urgent request made by our group today is primarily aimed at two objectives – I would like to stress this at the beginning so that no abuse can take place with this request: One goal is the implementation of the insurance obligation, the second objective is to collect all incomes – but within the framework of a comprehensive reform and not in the form of a flick work; and also – first note – ecologisation included. I mean, this concern is – at least speaking placidly – without this being a common concern. But what is the actual finding? – A new tactic has been applied according to the important, considerable, rather embarrassing chaos originally triggered by the contract, and the Constitutional Court of Justice, which has partially forced repairs and eliminated the gross maltreatments. This new tactic has, in principle, been designed to distract you from these problems under the cover or behind the heat shield of the pension reform discussion – this pension reform has not really succeeded; I only mention the completeness half. In reality, a new edition of the original contract regulations has taken place. It was just developed a little further. And what is the result? – That is also the reason why we are making this urgent request today. – We are today one month after the legal notification period for these so-called new self-employed persons covered by the new regulation and so on. And what's the finding? At the time, we have heard from the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, and it is expected that some 250 000 to 300 000 people will be affected and therefore 250 000 to 300 000 persons concerned will report accordingly to the social security institutions. The deadline has expired, a month has expired, and how many reports are there? - Nearly 6,000! So, not 250 000 to 300 000, as estimated and as likely equivalent to the reality of life, but 6 000 reports are available. And even the handling of these 6,000 reports tends to oversupply social security companies. I know from my highest experience as a business consultant: The word "chaos" is only inappropriately defined what is happening there. The paper flood is significant and the result is unsatisfying. But why is this result so essential and ultimately also the urgency of this request? – I repeat: One month after the legal deadline, there are not the expected 250 000 to 300 000 messages, but only 6 000 messages! This is the result of your regulations, of regulations which represent an almost inconceivable negation of the reality of life. One actually only understands after two or triple studies of how in this case the reality of life has simply been ignored and one has meant that one can make with any regulations what does not happen in life. And this complete negation of the reality of life is characterized by very deplorable elements. It is characterized by prejudices that cause one to fear that one has fallen spiritually into a class battle position in which a certain human image is transported, according to which the entrepreneurs are definitely evil people and all the others, at least helpless people. No businessmen are evil people, although there are, of course, such – as everywhere – nor are servants per se helpless. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Just case by case!]] On the contrary: Servants are not helpless. On the one hand, they have the opportunity to organize themselves, and on the other hand they are self-conscious and self-responsible people and are able to articulate themselves even if only the legal framework conditions are right. But I'm still coming to see what you've done in this field. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The legal provisions are borne by the consideration: If someone comes out of some supposedly protected area and wants to become independent, then that can only be a sham business, then it can only be a sham. I have to tell you: The inadvertentness that affects me should also have been the inability of the social bureaucrats, who cannot understand that people are responsible for their own self-responsibilities and that they are genuine in life by responding positively to the new options and opportunities of a dramatically changed world of work and are not desperated, but rather are able to take up new forms of work for themselves, take up new forms, work in new forms, and thus, in fact, make their contribution to the world as a whole. It has not been understood by the Federal Government to this day that we have to say goodbye to the traditional pictures of full-time employment, and perhaps life-long in the same profession. There's no more! But what you are presenting here is trying to restore this image of a healthy working world with inadequate, bureaucratic and expensive means. And I'll tell you the following: The result is starkness and, what is even worse, ultimately a decline in tax and social security morals, because you force people into the shadow economy. I bet with you that among the 244 000 to 294 000 people who are not registered - apart from the estimate - there are many who have moved themselves to the shadow economy with a heavy heart, but without any freedom of choice. If a law has this steering effect, it is not only economic, but also social-political scandal, because it creates a new group of – quotation marks – "illegal" execution marks. You've done this in foreign law before – that was a mistake! – and if you do this again, make a mistake again, because the only form you seem to intend to respond to this phenomenon is new measures to combat the pussy. However, they would have to eliminate the causes of the coup in order to have the legitimacy to actually fight the pussy, because, of course, Push does not like the liberals either. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] We do not think that it is good for people to work in the shadow economy, but we understand that if you do not leave people freedom of choice, nothing else will remain for them. They thus create a new form of illegality. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's Peter? Where's your spokesperson Peter? Is he pussing too?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! If you had the courtesy of not interrupting me, I would review my opinion about you a little bit to the positive. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is my colleague Peter and your half group?]] Ask him yourself! Would you please take a seat? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The application is not urgent for them!]] Mr Khol! It is urgent for my colleagues in the Group, and the numerical presence in this case is not an indication of urgency, because this is a written and disputed paper. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] In contrast to your group, we do not have a command issue at the club meeting, but we are preparing things there. That is why I know myself in accordance with my group as a whole. That's a difference! Do you understand? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But those who live in the healing world of dogmatic command spending cannot easily understand that. That's what I understand. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I have another explanation: your people are fad when you talk!]] Mr Khol, I should like to make it clear to you that I am honouring your remarks with the word 'Amen'. Saving You're me! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] So this departure from the traditional working world is not understood by the social bureaucracy and is not understood. And that's no wonder either: The actors are not affected by this phenomenon. The actors who work out this in the social security sector usually have full-time employment, usually close to the lifetime in which they are active. They do not have to go into flexible conditions. But if one loses so much the view of reality in life through one's own reality, then, I mean, one has lost the claim to get ahead of the other people. One does not have it on and on, but if one understands it from the 19th century. In the early 20th century, the social insurance philosophy of motherhood is raised for itself, then it is lost at the latest when you do not even know what is really happening in the world of work. I mean – I have to say this clearly – that in this case, unfortunately, trade unions also fail because they are increasingly focusing on those who are already in employment, and do not understand that, when they set up conditions, how to get into employment relations, which correspond only to the old patterns, more and more people will be outside, because they are no longer organized at all. And I am sorry because I am of the opinion and would like to say that from this point of view: Today we would need more urgent than ever innovative trade unions, but if they are not innovative, they will have to accept this criticism. Thus, people are tormented by you as well as abandoned: People are tormented by a bureaucracy that is not comprehensible, by costs that are not manageable, and ultimately by the fact that you are lifting contributions from them, for which afterwards no adequate benefits can be obtained. Because of your pension reform, this is often the case. And people are abandoned because you have ultimately brought about the abolition of labour law through your laws. I have not been able to wonder enough that Mr ÖGB Vice-Chairman Schmidleithner, when she suddenly discovered that there is now no motherhood protection in the free service contracts, that there is no longer any time for free service contracts, that there is no holiday arrangements, not even frameworks for working time, in the free service contracts. [[Abg. Koppler: There was no such thing before!]] At the same time, however, this House has sanctioned these conditions with the majority of the government groups, Mr Koppler, and the working world. [[Abg. Koppler: Before, it wasn't better!]] I am not saying that it was better before, but you have now worsened it, because now you are giving it the impression of legality! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Don't you understand, Koppler? Don't you understand? They're telling the people: You are now socially insured, you are now protected, for we have addressed this for you!, and then you notice that there is not even the mother protection. And this is a protection provided for health reasons. That's a work ban, that's not a vacation, that's not even an exemption from the work, just as this is the karenz, so that you can perform other duties, but that only serves the physical, that is, the personal protection of a becoming mother. And that does not exist in the free service contracts! You have now mainly been taken to the collection, everything else didn't interest you. For me, that's what I'm saying. It's so incomplete and so bad that you shouldn't have done it. Because what is that, in the end? – If you legalize this in this form, then it is ultimately precisely an invitation to places people in staff offices to take advantage of free service contracts rather than employment relationships. Believe me! And that's a serious mistake! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Yes, but you won't solve the problem by cutting one piece of pea after another off the salami. Apart from the fact that this is not quite so productive, you have to make a total solution, Koppler! Jump out of your drawers and go out into the reality of life! As an exempt works council, you think the world is healing. But she's not healthy! Go through any passage, buy Perhaps you can get a homeless magazine, or go to unemployment initiatives to let you know what's really going on! You do not hear this in your trade union meetings, because the unemployment initiatives are not represented and the homeless are not at all! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We need an overall solution! You have to think about it! Rethinking is recommended! And if you take solidarity seriously, if you really want to be solid, then you have to answer the following question: What is the human claim in the end? – In his term of life, man’s claim is not to rely on beg, but to go upright. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The claim is not to be abandoned under any circumstances – without moral prejudice, for example, saying: We don't give him anything, he's a tachinizer. Every human being is entitled to his existential dignity; at least to a minimum standard, and that is in the wording of the Liberal Forum "basic security". We would like to discuss this once, because if you do not recognize it, everything you do, sound and smoke and possibly even majority ability, for you have not yet driven the majority of the population below the poverty line. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I admit that. The majority is not yet, but the number is already considerable, and I would like to draw your attention to the enormous potential for radicalisation. If you don't understand this, if you don't even open your eyes for selfish reasons, for self-protection or for reasons of power retention, but continue to drive blind with 100-hour kilometres in the fog, then make a serious mistake. No working time regulations, no holiday arrangements, no mother protection, no karenz – that is what I call abandonment. You can tell me what you want. The new rules are in conflict with constitutional irregularities. And if Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch makes a rapid broadcast on the OTS screen today, in which she says that the Constitutional Service has examined this and that is all very great, then I tell you that the same constitutional service has also examined the rules which the Constitutional Court has subsequently lifted, and said that this is very great. This is a subordinate department of the Federal Chancellor and a binding authority. [[Federal Minister for Hostasch.]] Of course, the head of the section in the Constitutional Service is not wise! I do not propose to him that he should give due consideration, but the nature of the matter has already been so in itself that someone who works in a context of instruction draws up an opinion that perhaps pleases his clients better if it is still going to happen, than one who says what is the matter without regard to losses. That is why I say to you: It's unconstitutional! – We would like to argue academically about this, but it will be challenged before the Constitutional Court. You can be very calm! Once the first chance is available, it will be called. As you know, the last instance of legal decisions needs to be made, and the determination of social bureaucracy has recently been reduced, I note. So you have to wait longer. That means: Chaotic, different bases of assessment, which are completely unequalistic. They won't hold! The removal of contributions without consideration in certain cases of retirement has an expropriatory character, is non-consistency. - It won't stop! In the contribution rates themselves there is a totally unequivalent chaos: 14.5 percent, 20.25 percent, 21 percent, 15 percent. Every percentage is correct, only how should the person concerned know which one really is right for him, if not even the social security companies are able to provide information when calling. I would like to introduce this to you: Come to my office! I'll let our personal calculator once in your present time call the social security provider, then you'll see what's going on. First, she's connected 13 times until she's with someone who's ready to start a conversation. The conversation is polite, accommodating, but unfortunately poor, because the poor person has to say there too: I don't know. – And that is not enough, even if the companies concerned are obliged to pay in any case if they have been wrong. – Maybe that was written to you in the main book. So unequalistic chaos in the contribution rates, abolition of subsidiarity in the field of health insurance. Yeah, there's a time bomb. People will pay several times. Granted, if they pay by means of the contribution basis, they may be able to recover part of it, but the service providers may not. It's going to fail. And last but not least – but it's almost the most important –: The language of the laws is incomprehensible. Incomprehensible! The language of this law in the special case is incomprehensible! We have made ourselves aware of the joy of quoting a body of law in this urgent request. I recommend them to all members of this House to read, and if someone can explain to me in simple words what is meant there, I am grateful to him. To conclude: The aim of the Liberals' urgent request is twofold: in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, we want to achieve: an allocation of social security obligations according to the criteria of tax law. In other words, taxable income means commercial, pay-based means ASVG, and mixed forms must be given options. No double charges for short-term insurance, such as welfare funds, in addition to statutory insurance. – This needs to be corrected. General conversion of service providers' contributions to the calculation according to the total wage. I say quite explicitly: in the case of reduced rates, but according to the amount of wages. That would be a quantum leap in administrative simplification! That would be fair. Any wage schilling would cost the service provider equally much. And if that doesn't come soon, then you will have the adverse consequences to answer further! One last demand: Harmonization of the basis of assessment and contribution. – These are the short-term objectives. With regard to the long-term objectives, we ask the Federal Minister to present something by the end of the year. First: Annual accounts for taxes and social security, second: Remitting additional labour costs by gradually changing the financing of income-dependent taxes on resources, i.e.: Ecologisation. If anyone in this House expresses the opinion that he does not like it, then he makes a social and economic revelation page, for which we cannot be grateful, but which at least provides for clarity, which says that you do not want solidarity, that you do not want insurance and that you do not want to think or can do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10109	Ms Eleonora Hostasch referred to the submission of an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me today to refer to this request in a slightly more detailed way than I normally use the time of the House. For this is a very fundamental debate, and I therefore believe that one should deal very profoundly with the various considerations, statements, opinions and also criticisms expressed in this motion. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that the National Council, with a resolution of 2. In October 1996, the Federal Government asked the social partners and experts to develop the Austrian social security system with a view to a broad and fair involvement of all incomes. I was very proud of the fact that I was sitting in your ranks at the time and was involved in this motion for a resolution. I was very glad that I was able to support the then Social Minister Hums in taking the first step in this direction, and I am very glad that this request was jointly represented by the parties represented in Parliament. As a result, he has become a political mission for me, which I have tried to implement very consistently last year and – as I mean – successfully. In the light of this resolution, the National Council, therefore, you, ladies and gentlemen, have pointed out very clearly that, especially in the case of the development of different working conditions in recent years, it has shown that more and more circumvention opportunities have been sought, that many efforts have been made to escape social security, and that economically weaker workers have been increasingly forced into social security-free or at least poorly protected areas. These arrangements are intended to limit these circumvention possibilities, taking account of existing social security law, and I believe that we have taken the appropriate steps to achieve this objective. And if the objective is to achieve equal treatment, fairness and solidarity within a society, then all incomes must be included in the social security solidarity community. It is not possible to include only workers, farmers and farmers in social responsibility and social protection and to exclude other groups of workers from both responsibility and social protection. And if we take this objective seriously, then we must take those steps that the majority of this House has taken in the past year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that the current system for the inclusion of all incomes in social security is based on a very profound, scientific discussion at expert level, but also on political level. We have asked renowned professors such as Professor Tomandel, Professor Mazal, Professor Grillenberger and Professor Mosler to put their knowledge and experience in the service of this political goal. In the expert groups, business loyals, social security representatives as well as our social partners were involved, and they jointly designed and developed the foundations for the political decision and ultimately agreed with us on the content. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! It was, as has been said, also economic loyals, among whom I suspect that they are always involved in your reflections, to which you have contacts and whose expertise you also ask. That is why your massive criticism of the current regulation surprises me, because we had very close contacts with these experts! [[Abg. Böhacker: You agreed to everything!]] The experts have been aware of the results of the work group experts and have been the subject of political decision-making in this House. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the inclusion of all incomes in social security, we are also pursuing absolute new land in international comparison. So far, we have experience with the practice-tested social security law, as I would like to say, but we do not yet have a comprehensive experience with the involvement of new areas in social security rights and social security obligations. We cannot seamlessly transfer the old experiences to the new situations. I say again: When you enter New Zealand, you learn to do so again and again, and at each step you have to carry out appropriate evaluations in certain periods of time. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But not at the expense of the people!]] I should also like to point out that our social system has a close link between labour law and social security law and, of course, for this reason, a very clear and careful differentiation between employees, free service contracts and the so-called new self-employed. It is precisely the rules governing the free service contracts that are intended to prevent companies from pushing employees relatively easily into a new self-employment and thus to push them out of worker status. This was a particular concern expressed by the honourable Members in their motion for a resolution, but it was also a major concern of the representatives of the workers' interests. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on your allegations of constitutional illegality. The definition of different boundaries, which regulate different facts, is not only a non-constitutional constitutional requirement, but also a constitutional one. I think it is an important principle that must be maintained. In this context, no constitutional illegality shall be established. The new rules are based on income tax law and on the principle of multiple insurance. Equal treatment for workers who, in addition to an existing social security obligation, obtain an income from employment, and those who only receive an income from self-employed employment, would be extremely worrying because of the different tax consequences currently in force. This is also an important aspect of argumentation, and I assume that the ladies and gentlemen who will speak will refer to it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! If you point to the unconstitutionality of the different rates of contributions and in particular to the low levels of contributions of traders, the question arises: What can be concluded if someone rejects these different sentences? – Accordingly, the demand for an increase in the rate of contribution also applies to this professional group. In my view, however, it is overlooked that for reasons of objectively justified differentiation in the self-employed sector, other specific rules apply, such as the minimum basis of contribution which is not available in the self-employed as such. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! On the question of insurance periods: A minimum level of insurance periods as a basic condition for a pension claim is an essential requirement in any pension scheme. This has been part of social security law for a long time and, of course, must include all professional groups in the pursuit of fairness, equality, equal treatment and balance. The differences between public service pension schemes and private pension insurance have been substantially reduced in the long term by the 1997 pension reform. I believe that last year we have taken significant steps towards harmonisation. Nevertheless, there are still differences between the systems, and therefore it is difficult to assume that a complete unit of the claim can be assumed in the presence of several employment relationships. I do not think that we can expect to be changed from one day to another, or from one year to another, to the other. Trust protection is an essential element of our social security law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am aware, however, that the path we have taken in the past year must continue further and that it will be important and necessary to take further reflections on the question of further harmonisation steps. I would also like to make a comment on the question of the standard service provider contribution: The problem of the flat-rate service provider contribution for minor The Constitutional Service has already examined staff at a preliminary stage of the draft, and I would like to stress that the Constitutional Service has been guided by objective criteria in its assessment and that there has been no influence on opinions from any side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I think the policy would be wrong if it tried to influence such an influence. For it would be the Constitutional Court, which, as a rule, would be based on the same principles as the Constitutional Service advisers, who would speak the final word in case of a case-by-case challenge. As I said, The Constitutional Service was unable to recognise a constitutional disability in this regulation of the standard service provider's contribution and, accordingly, the constitutional conformity was confirmed. It is, I would like to point out, the essence of social security that not only individual benefits and entitlements are compared, but also that the social component and solidarity balance play an important role. When creating a flat-rate service provider contribution for minors We were not concerned with mobilising or preventing employment, but with creating a level playing field – and I am reminding ourselves of debates which we have held very intensively in both the Committee and the plenary session – between entrepreneurs who employ small employees and those who employ fully insured workers. I believe that this is a very important principle, both from the point of view of the economy and from the point of view of workers and workers. In this context, I would like to refer in particular to the extension of social security protection, particularly those atypical jobs. This is because there is a chance to open up a new opportunity for this group of people – primarily women – through opting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! Furthermore, I think it is also incorrect that the service providers are obliged to report to the health insurance companies that there are other employment relationships with the employees employed by them. There is no regulation in the ASVG which requires a service provider to report whether a person employed has another minor or other employment relationship. This is not in any section of our social legislation. Mr Kier also raised the question of subsidiarity. The elimination of subsidiarity corresponds precisely to the clear mandate of the House to include all incomes from employment in social security. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the Liberal Forum has also approved this motion for a resolution. The elimination of subsidiarity is therefore the logical consequence of the implementation of this task! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The multiple insurance in health insurance has been extended to farmers and traders, and in its work contract knowledge, the Constitutional Court of Justice – now I come to the constitutional conformity – has expressly considered multi-insurance to be constitutional, which is a confirmation of this provision. They criticise the regulation in accordance with § 49 para. ASVG. It provides that all the persons mentioned there are included in the social security scheme. A flat-rate cost allowance should only be granted for certain secondary activities. Such a scheme of non-contributory flat rates is absolutely not foreign to social security. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: An effort is without tax!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The main association of social security funds may already exempt certain remunerations under the legislation in force so far. The aim is to ensure that legal regulations also take into account the complexity of implementation into account and, accordingly, take into account. The Constitutional Court – now I come back to the contract regulations – assumes in its work contract knowledge that the answer to the question which persons according to § 4 para. 4 ASVG Free Servants are possible without major difficulties. It is clear to me that any new regulation also entails the need for habit and that it is necessary to gather experience. But I think it is possible, in principle, to apply these rules in a concrete way. As far as the timing of the compulsory insurance of the new self-employed is concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, I believe that you are misunderstandings. The law states that the insurance relationship is consistently upright. Deputies Kier! Look at the explanatory remarks! There is – I quote – : "If, for example, a speaker – we have specifically chosen an example – "become up again and again, even during that time an operational activity is assumed, in which he temporarily does not engage in any teaching activity." The same would be true if someone only worked once a year for a few weeks, but this is a recurring one, for example at festivals. I think the legislator has defined the political intention in the explanations very precisely! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The legislator should write laws, no explanatory remarks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to our common understanding, explanations are also an expression of the political will of the House and, accordingly, the subject of interpretations. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the various points. The rules governing the free contract of services are an important link between the arrangements for workers in the narrower sense on the one hand and the arrangements for the new self-employed on the other. Those in § 4 para. 4 Free service contracts defined by ASVG are closer to the conditions applicable to employees from an economic and legal point of view, so they were, from our point of view and also from the point of view of the majority of the house, to be regulated as a permanent debt relationship in the ASVG. In particular, the rules governing the free contract of services are intended to prevent companies from having relatively easy access to new self-employed persons. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The fear that I and in particular the workers' representatives are constantly being tried to find circumventions of service relations – I do not want to point out current examples – shows how important it was to establish a demarcation in this context. And it was – I repeat it again – a particular concern of the House to regulate this point. If one were to follow the request of the Liberal Forum, for example, a contractual arrangement would be possible, according to which a construction manager would be declared by a construction company as a free employee, and this would result in the employer not having to make social security contributions for them, but, accordingly, the construction manager does not have all the claims arising from an employee relationship. Dear ladies and gentlemen! To what extent tax law may be based on social security and labour legislation, the subject of the discussions in the Tax Reform Commission, but harmonisation between tax law and social security law is also part of last year's decisions. Let me refer once again to the question of the possibility of insurance for minor employees, because you are also very detailed in this regard. In particular, the demand for women's interests was met, and this regulation takes into account to a certain extent the desire for women's people to support the population. It is a social-politically important extension of the protection area of social security especially to those people who especially need this protection. Without this scheme, the weakest in working life would have no chance of obtaining independent protection in pension and health insurance. I would like to stress once again: These are those cases where this need is also present as such, because there is no obligation on the employee side. Mr Kier, honourable Member! In your contribution, you have also referred to the question of re-basing employers' contributions to a total wage levy. It is a rather comprehensible, important approach to me, which is also fully in line with the wishes of the employee side. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: There's an application in the house for this!]] Mr Kier! I do not think it would be useful if we were to work on deadlines in this context. There is still a wealth of open questions that arise in the implementation of this political intention, in which in-depth examinations are necessary. From our point of view, it is not foreseeable whether, in the event of a change in this system, the contribution revenue would flow in the same way as before. In addition, there is a wide range of implications for the various sectors of activity to be considered, assessed and advised, and we are trying, on the basis of the preparatory work done in particular by the Federal Chamber of Labour, to conduct the further discussion. You will remember that during last year's pension reform, the Federal Government asked the social partners to step up the investigation and to draw up concrete proposals. You can see from this that this is also one of my concerns and I am trying to come up with more concrete documents in this area. I have already said that I believe that the link between the different borders at existing social security borders and at the borders of tax law requires constitutional differentiation and that the different rates of contributions cannot be considered in isolation, as they are closely linked to the different social security schemes, such as... [[Abg. Dr. Kier: In this area you could harmonise!]] Mr Kier! If there is a minimum basis for contributions, there must be a distinction between the areas in which they exist and in which they do not exist, and then the percentage must be clarified. Add them to a minimum contribution basis in order to create a level playing field for a contribution system without a minimum contribution basis. Ladies and gentlemen! The difference is also made between the different groups in the law of performance. Nevertheless, I agree with you on this matter, Mr Kier, when we certainly have to make further considerations on the harmonisation of contribution rates. However, short-term full alignment would lead to significant disadvantages for individual professional groups. We must not call into question the acceptance of a good system and good regulation. Therefore, longer transitional periods are needed – and so has been done in the course of the pension reform – and these are already the content of the current legislation in the case of the new self-employed. Finally, let me come back to the motion for a resolution tabled to the House by the ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum. In general, it gives the impression that applicants are primarily concerned with improving the general insurance system for workers. Mr Kier has also expressed this oralally in his contribution. From my point of view, this is a very respectable concern, even if, as I have already said, I believe in a number of points in principle that are different. However, if I look at, ladies and gentlemen, the main statements made today in a press conference held in Parliament a few hours before the debate on this request, I cannot defend the impression that you are more concerned with improving a situation than with improving it: It appears that, under the pretext of various detailed arrangements, the objective of comprehensive insurance obligations and the fair distribution of contributions and benefits is to be called into question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is an understatement!]] It is claimed that general insurance obligations make it difficult to move towards self-employment, promote unemployment and undeclared work and keep women dependent on flexible forms of work away from the labour market. Don't be angry with me, but I think these claims are completely wrong and misleading! They are based on the fictitious idea of being able to judge it. Perhaps it is not your fictitious idea, but your political intention to be able to determine for yourself whether and what contributions to social security should be paid, and that those entrepreneurs, but also workers, should be the fools who comply with social security rules. The benefits are to have those who are so skillful or so well advised that they recognize loopholes in order to be able to behave in such a way that it is at the expense of the general public. – This is a political intention, which I will always oppose with full vehemence! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The opposite is true!]] Mr Kier! If you put your statements to the point from the press conference, I have to say that is your goal! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is a conscious misinterpretation!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum! I would remind you of the debate at the beginning of today's plenary session. In this respect, Mrs Dr Schmidt said that there should be a decoupling of income from social systems and social security. I would like to say to you: That's not my approach! I represent the opposite approach, and that, as I believe, is also the approach of the majority in this House and the majority in the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Employment and social security systems are inseparably linked. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's something else!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: You deliberately do this wrong!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, no! A solid balance, in which all are involved, in which income from employment do not have a mesh, from which type of acquisition a social security obligation arises... Mrs Deputies! [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You know exactly that was not meant!]] If I look at the statements from the press conference and the intention of your request, I can only suspect what I have said now! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You have deliberately misunderstood this!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Consider what the realization of your application would bring! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Everyone would be insured!]] To whom would the realization of this demand benefit? – In my view, I would like to give the answer: It would benefit employers who want to gain unjustified competitive advantages to their competitors by offering free service relations instead of regular employment. They would save the employer's contribution. The disadvantage would affect employees on the one hand, but the financing of the social security system on the other. In addition, employers would be able to afford minor employment to an extent that exceeds the needs of households or the smallest commercial or commercial enterprises. These employers could gain competitive advantages vis-à-vis their competitors. A major disadvantage would be small. Workers because they no longer have the opportunity to be involved in the system. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The reason why I am so sensitive to these questions is the fact that I am constantly faced with intentions which want to undermine our excellent social security system, which wants to gain personal benefits at the expense of a general social community, a community of insured persons, and thus have a negative impact on a system. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to say that some points of approach are included in your arguments, and I think it is important to think about them. I also do not want to repeat what I said last year, namely that we have entered the new social security legislation in New Zealand and are constantly evaluating – Mr Hums does not like to hear this term – or question what rules need to be developed in practice. We will also be with the 55. ASVG-Novelle makes some technical clarifications and formulations that may also correspond to the intention of your application. Your comments give the impression that my opinion that you are actually trying to bring these regulations down is a false one.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10384	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. The maximum speaking time per speaker is 10 minutes, per club 25 minutes. The first mention is made by Mr Dr. Haselsteiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10413	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Mrs Bundesminister, it is true that we believe that social security The aim is to decouple work, but not by avoiding social security systems or by their design, but the statement that it is intended and can and will be irrelevant in the future what this or any other federal government is doing, there will be no other way than to decouple the social security of people in that country from employment. If you have not understood this and if you do not finally allow this to happen consistently in all your considerations, which we recognise in large part – we do not only criticize you – then we will not find a common language, and that is why, Mrs Federal Minister, we do not believe that your system, your social bureaucracy, is blind to the real world and the rapid change in our economic life. Otherwise, it is no longer explainable. I always wonder – also in this question: Cui bono? It is my intention to really question whether our social legislation, which you are always setting as an example, has not become a Hydra. When I was still a revision assistant – unfortunately this has been a long time ago, namely, 30 years ago – the social laws were already unreadable, ladies and gentlemen! So that was the case at the end of the 1960s. In the meantime, however, we have made 184 novels go over us, and matter is no longer understandable at all. Mrs. Federal Minister! I ask you, I invite you to come to the Bauholding in Spittal an der Drau, it can also be Vienna, and then we drink coffee with the employees of my pay agency. Then, in their words, they should tell you from their practice and tell you what they think about your exemplary social security system. However, I will help you, because there I have certain house rights, and I will not let you suffer harm, not only physically, but also not otherwise. But you should see this, Mrs. Federal Minister. When you go there, you will see that there is deep frustration, because people can no longer understand that this legislator – thank God only a part of him – adopts regulations that are not only legible, they are hardly understandable either. They leave room for interpretation, which rightly raises constitutional concerns. If you, Mrs Federal Minister, say that everything has been examined, and the Constitutional Service says that it is all inconceivable, then I can refer you to a speech by Mr Theodor Tomandl, a man not quite unknown on this issue. This represents at least six times the accusation of the illegality of the Constitution as regards what is currently the law and what this Federal Government and this majority in Parliament have decided. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's not that simple that you say we're going over it. I admit you've won two years, you've won three years, and that's also the goal. We know that these innovations on social security have, above all, been decided so that we can achieve budget targets and not because we wanted to reform. In your own remarks, Mrs Bundesminister, you said that the "evil entrepreneurs" actually have no advantages and therefore do not want to save the number of service providers' contributions. Yes, I agree. I remember three years ago, when I moved into this House, I told my clubmates and here in plenary again and again: If we do not change our social security system so that it does not matter to the service provider whether he is employed full-time, part-time, half-time, secondary-vocational, professional or otherwise, then the problem will not be solved. They say we want to provide the benefits that the loopholes recognize. And I say to you, Mrs Federal Minister, we do not want to allow loopholes and not make them recognizable to entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] They're just forcing imagination, thinking about it, saying it's going to be hot when I do it. That is not useful, ladies and gentlemen. We have a rule work and a system to install and adopt which corresponds to a common goal formulation – Mrs Federal Minister, we have never had a problem before – but not just because of gentleness, sawing, lack of reform, fear of the next election, fear of the coalition partner, fear of one of the heavens falling on the head. It will only be repaired more, repaired to death, once the exhaust, once the rims, once the brakes, and the cart will still not go, it will again be unconstitutional. You'll be blaming yourself again, Mrs. Federal Minister, that's what's to be feared. We're sorry, too. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, you have met me deeply with your example of the construction leader, Mrs. Federal Minister. I don't know if you brought the example because I'm the next speaker. That's why I'd just like to thank you. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: I knew!]] But I have to say, you really don't know yourself. Because I don't work 38 or 40 hours with a construction manager, but I'm glad if I don't get into conflict with the working time law, that's a very different problem. There is no question as to whether he is fully insured. It is still part of a majority, but it is a group that is getting smaller and smaller, which still has a completely crisis-proof place – at least in my company, Mr. Kaufmann – that feeds not only him but also his family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kaufmann]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very different problem, namely the problem that this construction leader is in the criminal with one foot, because there is a worker protection law. As you know, this is my favorite theme. However, there is a danger of being replaced by the Social Insurance Act. These are laws that come from the same spring. They are equally insoluble, it is equally impossible for them to understand them, they endanger the economic location of Austria to the same extent, and they counter your efforts and our common goal towards more work, greater social security, more solidarity and greater justice. This, Mr Kaufmann and Mrs Bundesminister, you must take your heart to heart once. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, mentioned this today, and I wrote down my keywords. They say it is a fundamental debate. - I'll give you that. You're saying we've got to get new land. – It is a pity, but where is the new country, Mrs. Federal Minister? They see a new continent, but they are acting like those Irish immigrants who have remained in purpose and who prefer to starve in Ireland. Newlands have joined those who have ventured into the floating Shinakl that has passed over. And there they just got new land. The others stayed at home and had the consequences to bear. Entering new land also needs courage, and new land needs reform and reform, Mrs. Federal Minister. It's not enough to do it. If you are then talking about trust protection and pension reform et cetera, I must say that the word "pension reform" alone, according to me, is an awful increase in the German language, because "pension reform" is in no way meant. I don't want to miss out on what it actually is, but a pension reform isn't. But I think it's strong that you want to talk to us about this, just me, who I'm a affected person. I am born in 1944 and will therefore be among the first to make contributions to the pension system no longer lead to an adequate or appropriate pension, at least not if I reach the currently hoped-for medical age of about 95 years, then unfortunately God will no longer be possible. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, you must not talk about protecting trust in this regard. They should trust to present a reform paper. You should combine all the suggestions – and I would like to thank you for allowing the suggestions of the Liberals – and then really trust to produce a reform paper, which is clear, simple, comprehensible, solid, balanced and just, while at the same time satisfying the basic economic requirements that are here: Strengthen competitiveness, reduce additional wage costs and comparability in internal competition. If you bring this together, Mrs. Federal Minister, you'll be welcomed by us. Until then, you still have to be patient. My invitation remains true.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10477	Next word: Mr Hums. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10498	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope the patience of the Federal Minister will not be overly stressed, but I am always optimistic. One thing I can say to the Liberals today: Despite all At the beginning of the discussion in 1996, many of the Liberals, like many others, felt that there should be no step towards including all incomes from employment in social security, in the obligation of insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Insurance duty belongs here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We said "insurance obligation", but not "insurance"!]] At that time, as a Social Minister, I was practically the only one, fortunately supported by my group and especially by today's Minister of Social Affairs, who, despite all the contradictions – but for good reasons – said: We have a very good system, but the changes in the world of work make it increasingly difficult to allocate. It's full of what you're saying today. At that time, there were many border cases and loopholes that were criticised by no one, but which led to more and more entrepreneurs being advised not to give their employees service contracts, but, in fact, work contracts without social security. This was a trend which was constantly on the rise, a trend which has been hard on the individual who was no longer socially insured, and a trend which has seriously threatened our entire social security system. It was therefore necessary to include these workers. At that time there were many, many difficulties. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What happens now? - Now it's going into black-and-white work! You know that!]] Of course, the legitimists in my house at the time would have been happy if we had brought a very simple regime over the stage politically. But I do not know what you, Mr Haselsteiner, would have said if you had suddenly drawn up the social security contributions in the pension insurance of workers and entrepreneurs – you would personally have been at risk – if you had done so in the area of entrepreneurs. Therefore, only one thing is possible: We must go the way that has already been pursued in 1996, which is recognised by more and more people as right: all incomes are to be included in a genuinely general social security scheme, income from a certain income to a certain income. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Why don't you do it?]] We have been moving in this direction step by step since 1996. The Federal Minister has achieved, in a grand success in negotiating, that what the professors have worked out with the experts in 1996 has been largely implemented. But no one will really expect to be able to completely change such a system that has grown historically within one or two years. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But no, you have five years!]] None of you! I would be grateful to him for being innovative and able to speak with him, who as a speaker would have explained here that all income from a certain income to a certain income should be fairly included in a general insurance scheme. That's where we were the first. If you think we should have waited until we have negotiated a perfect system with all stakeholders, then I must say that we would still stand at the zero point today. That is why I deliberately took up the purchase of parts of it from the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Mrs. Minister too!]] Because if we had not taken the first step, we could not have taken another step either. In October 1996, today's Federal Minister, who made a significant contribution to the fact that the National Council also decided to seek a general social security scheme for all employees' incomes. Especially for social reasons, I congratulate - we did not even discuss this at the time - on the fact that small incomes are also included. Now anyone can say that's making the system more expensive. - I agree. But this is a social measure. A criticism, which always comes again and again, even today by the liberals, is that, as a result of this regulation, jobs are at risk from inclusion in social security. This argument is absurd, just as absurd as a press release by a 1996 Green Member, who was incomprehensible to me and in which it was explained, I risked the existence of technical drawing and other workers by involving in social security. Mr Oellinger! This would be consistent with the desire of the Greens for life assurance through the abolition of social security. Absorbed! Just as absurd as job security with quality of life deterioration by removing social security obligations. I am sure that today's step was an essential step in the right direction, that we cannot have everything at the same time and that this path will continue. On this occasion I would like to thank once again all the Members who, because of my then, perhaps a little provocative innovations, had to face a lot of criticism. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs who have done good work as a legalist. But if one has to give them politically the square of the circle, to make things equal and to maintain many exceptions, because it is not politically different, then I must say, the legitimists are not to blame if it does not work exactly. Mr Haselsteiner! I also hope that Mr Kier's wish will be fulfilled, that we will also put in place in labour law those measures which will lead to better labour law regulations also in the field of free service contracts. Again: Of all the measures I have taken as trade unionists and politicians, the most criticised was the inclusion of all labour incomes by the trade union contract regime. I didn't have it easy. I would also like to thank those journalists who, although they were often affected themselves, have nevertheless reported half positive. However, despite all this criticism, I certainly do not want to go back, and I welcome all the steps that have been taken since then and which have been taken further. I would also like to thank all the liberals, the Greens, the Liberals and the EIAs who continue this way of the joint decision in Parliament, namely to create a genuinely general social security for all incomes from a certain level to a certain level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10610	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Drinkl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10631	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I agree with the analysis of the urgent request. In fact, the economy needs to change, to face new challenges every day. This change in the economy, of course, also affects working conditions and also creates new forms of work. But it's not just about the economy. The workers are also looking for more and more spaces. They themselves want to influence working conditions, working hours, their environment and their success. Against this background, it was indeed difficult to introduce these new employment conditions into the social security system currently in force. On the other hand, the legislator cannot fail to see how more and more people are being chosen to avoid the obligation to contribute, while at the same time increasing demands are being made on the social security system, which is being borne by fewer and fewer contributors. Mr Hums! That is why the Austrian People's Party, after in-depth and lengthy discussions on the inclusion of all employees in social security schemes, admits itself. It should not have the advantage of the one most likely to be able to find a loophole. Nor should it be denied those of social protection who – for whatever reason – deserve less. The partial abolition of the contract arrangements at the time actually gave us the opportunity to find a scheme that is suitable for the best possible solution to the existing problems. If the opposition fears that the present regulation cannot satisfy this claim, that is its good right. Because you're afraid to take responsibility, you're in the opposition! [[Abg. Oils: Not at all!]] I also do not think that Mr Kier said that this was the first time he had been in office. The regulation entered into force in January is so unclear and so incomprehensible. If you look at your two examples in the application, you can see that it is difficult for you to see and justify the ambiguity. They justify them with a brought- along shock and the computer game of the child of a journalist, that is, with very far-reaching examples. And with that, you want to prove how difficult this matter is! In my opinion, this can only be a little late carnival joke. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the usual practice!]] The application also criticises different levels of contribution. Why don't you criticize the different contributions from farmers who pay the highest pension contributions, from self-employed, from freelances, in my relationship with unemployed people? Do it, too! [[Abg. Oillinger: We do that too!]] The path found here to pave the way for the new self-employed with a new, low contribution to the legality was intended to favour these new self-employed. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But only for one part, the other leads to blackwork! You know that!]] You know that by reorganising the rules of business law we have created a much easier access for entrepreneurs. I also admit that the gradual increase in contributions to us by the People's Party actually also has a regulatory character, because we want to have fewer and fewer existences in the grey field and more and more self-employed people will be able to find a legal basis for trade. The Federal Minister has here explained very thoroughly the contradictions in your request. I do not want to repeat this point again. I would just like to point out two aspects. First: They want to eliminate optional insurance protection for minor employees. Good! You can have that. We will say this to those thousands of women who earn a thousand shillings on the income of their households through a small job. We don't want that! We want to open up the possibilities I have mentioned. But I see: You dream of the utopia of a basic income. Only: They have not even mentioned who is to pay these 8,000 s per month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Of course! I will pay it, and you will pay it, Mr Kier! But, of course, a minor employment is obsolete if everyone gets any amount monthly. Secondly – and this is also very interesting –: They want to replace the flat-rate service provider contribution with a contribution from the total wage sum. Very good! It will be a pleasure for entrepreneurs if they suddenly have to pay a service provider's contribution to pay a wage sum above the maximum contribution base! This is a very strange aspect and a strange relief from companies, as Mr Hazelsteiner has just called for. We will also tell entrepreneurs what ideas you have here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! You have written down in a long list what will happen if the solution now found remains that way. I can calm you down: These fears will not come true. And you know that too! You know that very well, because the numbers speak a different language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] You know very well that this Social Rights Amendment Act – let me point out here – has for the first time stopped the move to early pensions and has declined. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: 6,000 instead of 300,000!]] They see that this change of law is taking effect, and this shows that we have done the right thing. Secondly, I would also like to say that here, we have been able and required to review the forecasts for economic growth upward. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: With the involvement of agriculture!]] You see, the work of this Federal Government is considered, the work of this Federal Government brings fruit. The future will show that the path we took in the previous year with the inclusion of all the employees in the insurance system was also the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10759	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10789	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! They have today tried to give the impression that economic fidelities are very satisfied and agreeable to this scheme. [[Abg. You deserve enough!]] It may be true that representatives of the Chamber of Economic Trustees have cooperated in the working groups. But they did not say whether they agreed to everything. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In conclusion, I would like to invite you to a visit to Mr Hazelsteiner's payroll office: Come to a seminar on this legal matter, in which 300 to 400 business loyals, professional candidates, revision assistants, senior employees, participate. If you bring out of 300 three that agree, then the hit rate is high. I was at more than half a dozen such seminars. I'll tell you one thing: I have not found anyone, either a speaker or one of the participants, who fully supports or takes note of this regulation. I would like to say to Mr Dr. Drinkl, who said that the two examples are a bit banal: Mr Drinkl, these examples are in line with reality. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: If these are just the two examples, we are a happy country!]] Mr President, I should like to thank How do you want to define what a new self-employed person is? What means of operation does such a new self-employed person have? – A computer, a bicycle, a car, a knife for cutting off when it's Metzger? These are the banal things of everyday life, and they explore you! Mr. Dr. Drinkl! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also invite you: If you take a step out of the ivory tower of a government party and put yourself in practice, then you'll figure out what's really going on! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You can turn it and turn it as you like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Mr Puttinger, please stay calm! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What is your resources? - A pencil?]] My head, for example, my mind – unlike you: Your means of operation is just the chippowder. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Not the shock!]] The Aprons, too. End of the passage. Mrs. Federal Minister! You can turn it and turn it around as you like, but these provisions on the social security obligation for free workers, new self-employed, small employees, in the Volksmund termed "Work contract regulation", are referred to by many experts as legal special waste. This accusation does not go to the authorities in the house, as Mr Hums meant. They worked very well, but had to take political guidelines into account. Therefore, the debtors are not the officials in the ministry, but you in the Federal Government and the government parties are responsible for this because you have arranged it so. We know exactly how dangerous special waste is. Special garbage, also legalized special waste belongs to fast, sustainable and clean disposal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is therefore an urgent need for a comprehensive reform. This is what I have reached with your statements, Mr Hums. The social security obligation for all incomes from an amount still to be determined, which must be in line with a debureaucratised tax, must be a new basis for a total reform. The present proposal of the Liberal Forum has to be positive in its essence, but it can only be a first step towards a total reform. The free movement objective in this context is to harmonise the tax and social security base. It is unthinkable that there is such a bureaucratic handling of social security contributions on the one hand and wage and income tax on the other. Both contributions must be withdrawn and paid monthly in a simple manner to be subject to a general assessment at the end of the year, an assumption, both in the field of social security and in the field of wage and income tax. There should be only one place of collection, only more an examination of all these charges by one body and no more overkilling. I would like to point out that, for example, five or six different auditors come to examine one and the same thing. Such simplifications, Mr Hums, would be solutions. What you're doing is simple and simple flicking. In her press release today, the Federal Minister argues that this whole matter is a chaos law. Social security has responded quickly to the introduction of the new legal situation. Thus, in December of the previous year, comprehensive information on the new legal situation was sent to the service providers. - That's all right. Thanks and recognition apply to employees of the local health insurance fund who have provided excellent information. Unfortunately, these work only in theory, in practice the situation looks quite different. When you read through the explanations, everything is clear for the moment. But then you come to the individual case, and today almost every case is an individual case. So you turn to the health insurance fund and ask how this case should be treated. The standard answer is that this must be examined first and cannot be answered ad hocly. You can register subject to the condition and receive a notice from the health insurance fund. Is this a legal situation that is satisfactory? Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! Don't you feel ashamed if you decide on such laws? The Federal Minister himself has also admitted this fact by stating that a new novel will be introduced to the ASVG, which will allow it to make adjustments for easier execution for workers and employers. What does that mean in practice? – It is a rather tricky definition of chaotic legislation, and Mrs Bundesminister himself must admit that there is an urgent need for action here. If today it is explained that all these negative effects, the slipping off, the pushing, the necessarily growing into the social security and tax-law grey zone are not there, then I must say that this is passing by practice. In particular, those housewives who have earned 2 000 S, 3 000 S, 4000 S or 5 000 S, perhaps in two minor employment conditions, and who would now be taxed socially and in addition as minor employees, refrain either from it or exert pressure on the service provider to obtain these charges over the grey zone. There are a wide range of statements by practitioners who have to do with the fact that these legal provisions are usually barely enforceable and non-implementable. However, it would be a blow to today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up and point out, one can only say to the government parties and to the government: They don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10893	Next word: Mr Mag. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10914	Mr President. Is there still some ambiguities in the speaker list?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10929	No, not with me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e10945	I begin, regardless of the fact that the Federal Minister has already sought the way. It seems to have the impression that the arguments put forward here are not so wrong. First of all, I refer to the speech by Mr Hums, who has clearly shown in his remarks that it is in fact only a question of where people are assigned by means of historically grown social security schemes. The ASVG, General Social Security Act, did not for nothing have that name, but in the draft at that time the claim existed to make a general, a comprehensive law. [[Abg. Hums: I already said that in 1996!]] I would just like to tell you that I have listened very closely to you, Mr Hums, and I note that the liberals are deliberately misinterpreted by the government as far as basic security and the like are concerned. We are therefore deliberately misinterpreted so that we do not have to deal with the arguments we put on the table. They say something we don't even say, and they reject it. This is very plausible, but has nothing to do with reality. Unfortunately, you also do so with the legal regulations. This means that a general social security law has not been implemented at the time, and therefore different insurance systems now stand side by side. This does not prevent a very large coalition from pursuing a genuine reform approach. If, as a small opposition group, the Liberals have the courage to present very innovative concepts, then it can at least be expected that the government groups will be prepared to discuss them objectively and not to defamate them. We are not talking, Mr Hums, about converting these social systems, which have grown over decades, in two or three years' time, but we are talking about the fact that this coalition has already taken place in 1987, i.e. more than ten years ago, and has said: We want to solve the major problems of this country. However, with all these regulations, which you decide to do and which the Constitutional Court partially withdraws, which, however, deputizes Mr Drinkl as an opportunity – which we Liberals like to accept, because we give the government opportunities to learn, it only has to accept – that you have only worked around the system and, in fact, have not achieved a great deal of solution so far. Mrs. Federal Minister! To this end, the following must also be said: If you claim to enter New Zealand, and therefore claim as a member of the government, that you should learn anyway, I would like to keep your scored, on the basis of how you interpreted us: If this coalition has always been learning for over ten years, it is time to press the school bank and stop occupying the government bank. Then it would be appropriate to go here and say: We do not "above" it politically; we can satisfy our clients – we take away a little bit and there we give it a little bit – but to the great reforms we have no pleasure; we do not have the necessary competence to do so – also objectively. Otherwise, it should have been put on the table sometime. I say this in particular, ladies and gentlemen, because I remember that it has been called by all the political groups in this House: We need an ecological tax reform! There was a big discussion two or three years ago, and all the political groups also put concepts on the table. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who strangled that?]] But it was the government factions that have not yet approved a committee of inquiry in this House, in which we could at least compare the proposals that are on the table in the direction of what everyone wants anyway. Because whatever everyone wants, we could do, and then we would be a step further. But that's just not possible, it's not done. They stand up here – and conjure up – the constitutional conformity of regulations, of which you yourself know that they are being repealed. For this, a number of examples have already been given by both Mr Kier and Mr Haselsteiner. These are also contained in the reasoning for our urgent request, so I will not repeat them. But you know that there are these constitutional problems and that they are going to be devastating again. Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly important to me in this regard – and I would like to stress this today in my contribution to the debate – is what people who are subject to these regulations say today when they are talking to them: We have zero desire to be even more enterprising! If you do, you're always just the "tepper"; They're always just coming in; it's like every one of you. They have no chance to keep up-to-date with the many changes that are being made on a permanent basis. – Nevertheless, one does not notice that there can be an overall solution. Now I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: Why, then, did the Members of this House, when Parliament's employee law was passed, each of you yourself being an employer at least, decide on the same thing that a particular tax consultancy firm has to do the billing? – It was obvious that this was because none of us ad hoc would have been able to do so, and there was no wish for a Member of Parliament to do so. That's why they decided at the time: We'll just add a tax consultancy firm. On the one hand, we pay for tax money – that is useful – parliamentary staff; and so that the dear gentlemen and ladies don't stand in the criminal with one foot, we pay the tax consultancy office immediately! It is true, however, that in this House one does not want to take on what is meant by all the others in that state who want to be self-employed as well as employers. Everyone who looks at the eligible system of reimbursements in the field of parliamentary expenditure knows what red tape is charged to others in that country. It is necessary to make a fundamental reform here for all; it is necessary to finally make a comprehensive arrangement, as has been proposed by the Liberals several times. That's what we want from you in this house. We want to achieve that we are finally talking about this, and we want you to stop closing this discussion. The last point, ladies and gentlemen: There is so much talk of protecting trust in social security. What, then, does "confidence protection" mean other than "protection of one's own constituencies", in the way it is discussed in this House? – For it is long since no longer a question of the fact that those who work today, for example, pay pension insurance, can assume that they too will once receive such a pension. It is true, rather, that everyone has to try to make a private provision in addition to that. If they do not, they must not trust that there will be a real guarantee for the people who work today, with those pension insurance schemes which are constantly being reformed by you. You know that. That's in the studies you commissioned. But it's not supposed to be reversible. The Liberals said very clearly at the beginning of this legislative period: We want a uniform pension and labour law for workers, employees and public servants. This is something that we have made one of our seven minimum conditions that we still adhere to today. If we are now saying – which is only consistent – that at a time when employment is falling more and more, it is no doubt logical to think that social security must no longer depend on employment, but is a claim of people living, working and paying taxes in this country, then we do not want to hear from you that we are actually social utopists, but then we want to have discussed these proposals in this House. For you know that the current regulations do not actually allow us to find the way out. That's why I'm asking, my. Ladies and gentlemen: If in the future – especially younger people – there is talk of protection of trust, then we are no longer talking about a generation contract that is to be observed, but at last we are talking about the generations' balance, which is also to be created in this country. What are all the burdens on future generations that will be charged to subsequent generations? – This has been completely neglected in this discussion here in the house. But we want to achieve a discussion on this. In this sense, we also believe that it is time to finally discuss an environmental tax reform. Because only with an ecological tax reform – along with a well thought-out basic security – will it be possible to minimize or prevent social problems in this country and to maintain social peace. The longer you refuse this discussion, the more dangerous you make the situation as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11013	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11035	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is not uninteresting that we debated a national employment plan on the morning, although something was wrong, whose contours are not yet visible, but which the Federal Government still knows that there will be 100 000 new employees – by the year 2002. Now we are discussing the contract regulations. I'm making a connection, and They'll ask themselves: What is this context? I'll try to explain this to you. I assume from the following assumption: So far, it has been true that the small employees have not appeared in the employment statistics, 150 000 people who have not been counted as self-employed. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But you have no idea how the statistics are done! This is an injunction against better knowledge, Mr. Ollinger!]] 150 000 people who have not been counted as self-employed will now be shown, together with the free contractors, at least in part as employees and appear in the statistics. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is an attack! That's the bottom drawer!]] It is at least so, Mr Feurstein, that there is no way to make the employment statistics of 1997 and 1996 or previous years comparable with those of 1998, with these changes. Ask the people in the Central Statistical Office, ask the people in the main association of social security funds, what problems they have! And that's just a detail problem of the whole thing. It has already been said a lot about the legal problems. It is not only about the legal problems, but obviously also about the fact that you want to make a small policy towards employment statistics funding with this kind of involvement in social security – I will say a lot later on. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Resist better knowledge!]] Mr Feurstein! They will certainly explain to me that this is not so. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Not today! Next time!]] But we will certainly come to talk about it in later days. Of course, the problem is not statistics. Whether the 10 000, 20 000 or 30 000 people now appear in the statistics and help you to cope with the employment plan does not matter. The problem lies, on the one hand, in the legal situation, and the problem I am still considering is also in your argument: You say you want to prevent the escape from labour and social law. This has been said several times. I'll be right back to that; first of all, to the legal situation. Thank God we are not yet where the colleague Haselsteiner believed: that we are already at the 186. ASVG reform or novelle would be. But we're almost holding at 130. Amendment of the ASVG, Mr Feurstein and Mrs Minister! [[Abg. May. Posch: And what does that say?]] Of course, in recent years the ASVG has had to be adapted annually. But look at the development! In the 1950s and 1960s we had an annual innovation of the ASVG – whether counted or uncounted – and now we have come to a speed increase from one or two innovations to six and seven innovations per year, rising in recent years! Who, please, is this law still to be understood? – I suspect that not even the larger circle of those who were inaugurated can in fact fully understand the ASVG and the accompanying laws. That's the real problem. I do not need to quote the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office or other opinions. They know very well, and as well as we, that this law is not legible and that it cannot be understood by people outside in practice, but that there are only certain ideas there about how to deal with this law. But it is no longer comprehensible in this form, because even the people in the institutions can not work up the new innovations in good time before the next innovation comes back. – So much to the legal side. But I find the social policy side of the whole. Escape from labour and social law should be prevented – well, a common concern. But, my colleague, Hums: If that was really the stated objective that you intend to pursue with this first reform and which is now also included in the further reforms of the contract, I ask you to explain why, as with the first contract, colporteurs have been pushed out, even though there is a knowledge of the administrative court that colporteurs are not self-employed but self-employed. The Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, has several judgments: Colporteurs are employed. This obviously does not interest the Ministry of Social Affairs, but is explained there: This is the task and problem of colporteurs. You have to try to get through yourself. In any case, we exclude them from the social security obligation. For us, they are not self-employed who are to be socially insured, nor are they self-employed who are to be socially insured. – That was reality. Now we are one step further, Mr Hums, but in the wrong direction! Now, with this last innovation, colporteurs are being made entrepreneurs, of course only social law and not labour law, because that is not the subject of this innovation; but social law we make them entrepreneurs. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just telling you: With this kind of legitimacy, your hypocrisy will be revealed! It is obvious that you do not intend to end the flight from labour and social law, but that you intend to do something else with this reform: to make a small collection where it is going to happen. Of course you can't cash at all. Above all, it is not possible to cash in the large media mogules in Austria, because they do not want to do so and defend themselves. They say: Please, Mr Sozialminister – with all the others, but not with me! Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs must nod and admit that there is no other way. That's the reality! There, the interests come across the ideas and the ideas you had. [[Abg. Hums: Are you behind that?]] Of course, I support the principle, as many others do. Even if a sentence, a certain line from a press release, is quoted again and again, colleague Hums: Of course, the Greens are in favour of all being involved in social security – but at what price, that is the question! I come to another example. In my opinion, we have now dealt with the topic of colporteurs clearly enough to make it clear that your reform has certainly not had the idea of including everyone in social security. The second is the opt-in. In the case of small employees, there is an insurance obligation for the employer or employer, but an opt-in for the employee. The employer's insurance obligation and insurance benefit are not in return, i.e. equal to tax, without social security for the person for whom this tax is paid. This is a major problem from the systematic point of view, even if the opinion of the Constitutional Service is always cited. But I'd like to see this ex-judicated, and I'm not so sure there's no major problems there. That is why I believe that the Liberal Forum's request, which I have some concerns about in the explanatory statement, is going in the right direction on this issue. It is about the inclusion of all in social security – and there will have to be a question of whether all can actually be included in social security only through employment – and from the principle of liberal application in this core area is in line with what we all want. Inclusion or calculation by the wage sum is a much fairer calculation and calculation than what you practice in the current form compared to the minor employees and other groups of contract workers. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals' request is not everything. He can't be it, and we can't tell in detail how it goes on. Only one thing has to be clear: The ASVG in its old classification can no longer be the basis for the social security of tomorrow. To this realization, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you should slow down. If you share this knowledge with us, we will be able to develop prospects for social security.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11146	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11167	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The Liberal Forum's proposal refers to the change in the working world, to new structures and to working conditions that have adapted to them. It is quite clear that this adjustment must actually be made, and no human being – at least in our group – is against it. It needs to be discussed about teleworking, homeworking, more flexible working hours in some areas et cetera. But it is important that you do not pour out the child with the bath. It is important that we know that not everything there is in the rules is to be thrown overboard. But in me a very strong suspicion arises at the request of the Liberal Forum in this direction. Much more often than there is a need to adapt working conditions, there is the fact that people are being pushed out of labour law. We have x cases that we represent. It is not because of the fact that we want to adapt to working conditions, but because we want to bring people to justice, and because we want to bend other rules. We all know the fact that, for example, foreign employees from the non-EU area, who are not able to do German and in the construction of auxiliary work, are suddenly partners of a GmbH, without even knowing our legal system. It is about circumventing the Foreign Employment Act. Or, for example, it has adopted a law-enforcement in Pröll, so that it is now possible to do Sunday work in Lower Austria – in multiplex. He argued that it could only be entrepreneurs who are in business. What is the case now? – There are circumvention structures to make workers into barber workers and to enable this Sunday work. We have x examples of constructions with the help of which people are to be paid less than is provided for in the collective agreement. These sham structures are used to circumvent labour law. We all know that there has been a sharp increase in the number of minor employees in trade as long as there has been no social security obligation. In the end, therefore, it is a question of not allowing the escape from the employment relationship, the escape from labour law, to be allowed. This escape from the employment relationship is, on the one hand, a problem for the individual – he is subject to worse labour law and worse social law – but at the end of the day it is also a problem for society, because it is growing to a group of people who are not insured by social law and, of course, social security contributions are missing. That is why the scheme is absolutely correct – and it is to be thanked by the Minister of Social Affairs and her predecessor – that, and this is the core of the whole, all those who have an income are also paying into social security. Of course, this should be done as harmoniously as possible and as far as possible in a social security scheme. This would mean, for example, Mr Mag. Barmüller, that the contribution for the self-employed, which currently stands at 14 percentage points, would also be 22 per cent, as with the workers, or that there would be an adjustment, one to the bottom, the other to the top. This would be a very sympathetic way to me, but we cannot carry out the whole package alone, of course it is also with the social partners to negotiate with the coalition partner. If you were to raise the contributions of the self-employed, who would really be raised – we know that for an employed employee in the month of 1 400 S from federal contributions and for a self-employed almost 5 000 S from federal contributions – we would actually raise the last one that is against it. Only a compromise must be found in an overall package. And it is clear that such a scheme, which seeks to involve all the workers, all the incomes of work, must be complex. They themselves call for the different developments in the world of work to be addressed. However, this means that the normal terms must be extended, and the extension of the normal terms is the extension of the new self-employment and of the free service contracts. What is available is a very flexible, complex regulation and not a rigid one. A rigid regime would have been much easier, but it would probably have failed to meet the needs of the labour market. It must be recognized, however, that a complex system of course also entails problems of interpretation. You can – how You do so in your request – rightly ask the question: How many means of work must now be available to actually distinguish between a free service relationship and a new independence? But one should not become hysterical, for in all these great acts of law it was always so that a Judicture developed. The Judicatur, which will develop in this area, may still have to be corrected by legislative changes, but it will then result in a stable and secure situation. One should therefore wait for this development. If one wants to harmonise, it is important that not only in the self-employed group is harmonised – since important harmonisation steps have been taken between officials and workers – if one wants to continue harmonizing, it is also about involving the self-employed group. I have already said that the self-employed still pay 14.5 percent of the contribution, while the employees pay 22.8 percent and the new self-employed from 15 to 20.25 percent. Of course, harmonisation would be possible, but there would have to be an approach to workers' contributions, or it would have to be reduced as far as possible. The explanatory statement in the Liberal Forum's request is quite polemic – I believe I have also responded. In the request itself, Mr Mag. Barmüller, stand very, very little. There is little in the application itself: It is in point 1 that the abolition of § 4 para. 4 ASVG calls for the abolition of free service contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to imagine what that means: This does not mean that those who are now subject to the free service contract suddenly become workers, but that means that those who have free service contracts and have not been transferred to the entire legal base of the workers, but at least part of the social legislation, would also lose this part. This request, and in particular this point in the request, will not be acceptable. The question of whether the total amount of wages must be recovered is similar to the question of paying contributions for small employees. So there are sub-areas – but minimal areas – in which you can be sure of your opinion. One last point, Mr Barmüller, is that you are constantly claiming that pensions were unsafe and that the pension reform was a sham reform. All calculations show that, subject to a condition, pensions continue to be secured after this reform, and this is a prerequisite for the economy to develop well, that we continue to have work and employment. If the economy does not develop well, then pensions are not guaranteed in the ASVG sector or in private insurance. Of course, everything depends on whether future development is positive, and therefore our first concern must be to ensure a positive future development, to create work. But not creating work by pushing people out of work by propagating wage cuts et cetera, but by creating work by getting back to more consumption. And we will only come to more consumption if we have a secure future perspective if we don't mess continuously and if there is actually enough income available in order to revive consumption and demand in particular. We will continue to be able to contribute to pension insurance through this detour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11239	Next word: Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11261	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! All should have social security, but only a few should participate in intermediate services – a vision that can also be presented differently, namely: We must remain sincere, social, powerful, but we must be extremely liberal in the field of intermediate performance. This is simply not possible, it is not imaginable, and so I see the urgent request that I have read very carefully. I really can only recognize a urgency in this urgent request in the way that you urgently place a need for appearance. We don't take it away from you, you should have it calmly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I read the application. You know what's in it? - Hot air! Hot air – and nothing else! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Mr. Donabauer! You don't know what "liberal" means! – Could it be that you do not know what "liberal" means? "Liberal" is also the name of solidarity, Mr Donabauer! But you probably didn't understand the request! I'm afraid that's very, very difficult! You will, of course, have a big problem working through such a big request! This is not easy, Mr Donabauer!]] I can also tell you that the findings of Mr Kier, who thinks that a new class struggle is taking place, which says that 250 000 people would expect, are based on assumptions which, I believe, we should not make use of. I'll tell you something else. I was present at the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and I have heard nothing but the eternal Lamento, which we heard at the time, is now being re-issued. But urgently, ladies and gentlemen, is something else: We need to stabilise the social system sustainably – that is our all concern – in order to secure social peace in order to keep the social structures in order. It is also urgent that services cannot be provided at billions, which have been declared taxable, but have not been included to a large extent in social law. We can't keep that in the long run! [[Demonstratative appeal to the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That's why these works contracts create order. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is the wrong instrument!]] They create order in the way that work, that employment is also reflected in the right to contribute, and is now also involved in the solidarity community. We entered New Zealand, no question. There is a process of entry into force, not even a question. But I think we're extremely good on the road, Dr. Haselsteiner, even if you don't want to believe it. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you write about different contribution rates, this will also give me the opportunity to comment on Mr Mag. Kaufmann to refer. Mr Mag. Merchant! You probably didn't read the laws exactly because you said the self-employed paid contributions of about 12 percent and a little more. You can read it carefully – I suppose that They were not there in the vote –: 14 percent, 14.5 percent, and these contributions must be made by the stakeholders alone, while the ASVG has employee and service structures. I'd like to tell you that. Secondly, Mr Mag. Merchant, look I would like to ask you to raise the level of benefits in pensions, and then we should have a reasonable discussion. Only: It makes little sense to take something out selectively. It's very plausible, but it doesn't do anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has been said that consideration should also be given to the dynamics of the labour market in the contract. There is a great deal in motion there, and I believe that we have created good conditions in this regard too. But I also believe that we need not only new social legislation, but also a new order, more openness and adaptations in labour law and in commercial law, so that we can secure comprehensive employment. We have been dealing with this question, which moves us all so much, at the very beginning of the current hour. I am very glad that the Federal Government is working on a national employment programme and will be presenting it soon. This programme is implemented by all of us who want to contribute to the country's interests. All the others will then also criticize and do nothing – we are working here consistently! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, we should also say that this inclusion results in benefits. If you are sorry that minor employees are involved, please also bear in mind that many women are now involved in the system and are also acquiring entitlements. This means that, if they wish to or must take up the pension scheme, they also have the appropriate conditions of entitlement. I therefore believe that this regulation is not as bad as you want it to be, but rather that it is a good regulation. That's from "running" Novelles spoke: A social law takes into account citizens, people's respect, social changes and economic developments. That's why novelles are quite natural. We will continue to work on it and have clear ideas. We have the courage to do so – to the difference of some others – we have the necessary degree of sight, and we also have a certain sensitivity to what is reasonable. In principle, we believe that this decision was correct, for those who want to preserve good must change some things. We have changed many things with this measure and have preserved something good.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11346	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11367	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! They assume that 250,000 people will report. However, we assume that the effectiveness of your regulation will be 3 per cent, 6 000 or 7 000 people. 3 per cent effectiveness, Mrs. Minister, is a cause for "fristless" in workers' groups, and in my circles one speaks of bankruptcy. This is a shot in the oven, Mrs. Minister! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] There are no comparable rules in the EU; You should have heard that there again. It is a Lex Proporz, that is not a question at all, and I am also right for Mr Kaufmann; Honor, to whom honour is due, who is right, one must also give it right – the contribution situation is in no way right! But that's far from a reason for organizing such a chaos. The bureaucrats will certainly have more work, even no question, but of course you have caught several flies with one blow. In your statistics, you are a sham self-employed person. Hasn't Mr. Schüssel said we need more self-employed? – You have created this form of self-employed! You have certainly helped the bureaucracy with number one job, but you also have to represent the explosion of black work you can now read in the statistics of the Wifo. Only: Absorbed Please do not make the success of the black work, gentlemen of the ÖVP, with a success in black voters. This is the first time You certainly are not! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, it is also interesting to lose once a word on housing promotion and on the obligation to account in the promotion of housing. – Perhaps it is also quite well meant that housing promotion is going somewhere in this illegality. You should also think about it! Please take more care of the unemployed and take less care of the workers! I would also like to make that very clear to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can speak to the honourable Member. Only give oilers the right to: In the early morning, a current hour will be held on the future of work, on the employment situation and in the afternoon a discussion will be held on the work contracts in which, unfortunately, Mrs Frieser does not speak. There have also been representatives in the ÖVP who have taken a different view of these works contracts. It is a shame, Mrs Frieser, but I will take you a minute of my speaking time, because I believe that your position would be an aha experience for your group. I believe that as far as the labour market situation is concerned, we should look at how good it is for the successful countries. How do the good countries, today with flexible working hours, with flexibilization of pay systems, succeed with atypical working conditions? – Of course, from a certain scale they have a social security scheme for all workers. Of course, this is the more bureaucratic, the more logical and balanced way. But before you go, you'd rather make a Lex Proporz; that all brings jobs in the bureaucracy sector. Otherwise, it certainly does not work at all, and above all it leads to less tax revenue and more undeclared work. Why don't you take care of employment? Take a look at the program "Create work – reduce taxes" of the liberals! They bring it so peu à peu: The German Chancellor climate and all political groups are talking about a "service check", perhaps personal services would be very good. Maybe. This is more surprising today with old age and old age care. But accept the service, really promote independence! See how many good proposals there are also by young chamber reform groups to relieve the costs of self-employment. See how much is paid in chamber contributions and what amounts you missed in the case of new start-ups if you were to press an eye for one, two years at new start-ups! Then you could provide proof of how much debureaucratisation in the employment sector eventually broke. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there are also possibilities in all other areas. Professor Kramer, for example, shows all possibilities for employment improvement. They're quoting today. Austria will have a GDP increase of 2.5 percent over the next 5 years. 2.5 percent of GDP growth is expected to decline in unemployment and employment growth over the next few years. – That's not true, Mrs. Minister! In 1997, there were 1.7 percent, 2.5 percent, instead of the forecast. And what was the result? – An increase in unemployment rates in 1997. If you look at the statistics of your colleague, Mr Farnleitner, in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs - I have already shown them to you - you cannot say, Mrs Minister, that there is an increase in employment in Austria. I cannot believe that you do not know these statistics, and I do not want to believe that you are not telling the truth. Look at this! These statistics show a decrease in employees over three years. The only country in the OECD, which has also experienced a decrease in the number of employees in addition to us, is Germany, no one else. Tell the truth! Make real reform programmes! Put this trade agreement in order within the meaning of the Liberals' request, and now please let Mrs Frieser – instead of me – talk for a minute!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11447	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11466	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: As the legal situation in these genuine contracts of work, incorrect contracts of work, free contracts of services, rather free contracts of services, less free contracts of services, the new self-employed, who are no longer as new self-employed as the colporteurs are, therefore, honestly: I don't know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But the woman ministers do not know!]] I would be pleased if at least the Federal Ministers knew each other. I don't know. That wouldn't be so bad, I don't know. The advantage of a market economy is that it is based on labour division. I don't understand about chemistry and physics either. I don't have to understand anything about social security law either. Ladies and gentlemen! Only: The Liberal Forum lists a number of cases in which no one is clearly aware of: Legalists not, tax advisors not, accountants not, social insurance law experts not. And that's something else. This is not about my ignorance, but a border of the rule of law was clearly exceeded. That's not how it is! I will now read you a sentence which, in my opinion, characterises the matter quite well: Only with subtle expertise, extraordinary methodological skills and a certain desire to solve thinking sports tasks can it be understood what arrangements are to be made here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Perhaps the woman minister is the crossword queen!]] That's a famous quote. The constitutional judges here in the house already know where it came from. That was the reason for the Constitutional Court to remove certain provisions of social security law – in this case emergency aid, I believe. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But Mr. Kostelka already understands that!]] That was the recognition of the 29th century. June 1990 with the title: Repeal of Section Sowieso due to the lack of a minimum level of understanding required under the rule of law. [[President Dr. Fischer: This also sometimes applies to the findings of the Constitutional Court!]] This may be true of the findings, Mr President. I leave these discussions – no, not always – to the lawyer. I'll give you that. The last knowledge about family taxation, for example, is methodologically difficult to understand in its reasoning – I have to say that – at least not understandable to me. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Very polite!]] I am a polite person and express myself accordingly. So, in short, I do not believe that this matter has "subtle knowledge, extraordinary methodological skills and a desire to solve thinking sports tasks" at all. I mean, it needs far more than that. In other words: It is certain that a number of these provisions will be repealed by the Constitutional Court. Mr Kaufmann pointed this out at the speaker's desk earlier in a pleasant openness, though not clearly. This will come, but by then the government parties will have secured hundreds of jobs. But what jobs? – by lawyers, tax advisers, auditors and other experts in this field. This cannot be the kind of labour market policy you have referred to this morning. This kind of policy, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, will not be regarded as socially or economically appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11556	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11578	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One of my predecessors, Mr Kaufmann, has dealt with justice in social security law. He meant, from his point of view, that something might have to be changed at the GSVG, that the contributions were too small. This is, as has been said, quite understandable from his point of view. I mean, though, if we are dealing today with work contracts, free service contracts, we should also deal with the Chamber of Labour a little bit. For me, it was very amazing – and after all, the Mrs. Sozialminister is a former president of the Chamber of Workers – how the Chamber of Labour deals with its "servicers" – under quotation marks. I have always meant that the Chamber of Labour stands for real contracts of employment, employment and employment. However, it is precisely the opposite. In the Chamber of Workers the opportunity was used, and I therefore wonder: Has this law been created to create certain privileges or benefits for the Chamber of Workers? – The opportunity has been used there; at one time the Chamber of Labour has no service contracts, no employees and no more workers in some areas. Mr. Kaufmann! I have not yet come to terms with it – I have to admit – that it is so in Lower Austria, because then we both would still be fighting some "strouts". But I have come to the point that this is the case in Vienna. In Vienna, at the places of consumer information, a secretary of the Chamber of Labour, who is employed half-dayly, there are many, many minor employees; these are people who are employed only with free service contracts, who have no chance at all of obtaining a regular service contract and contract of termination. Mr Col. Kaufmann and Mrs. Federal Minister! This concerns you very strongly as a Minister of Social Affairs. I think this is unsocial, and I think you should step in. Mr President, I should like to thank I ask you, or the Vienna workers' chamber, for these are primarily affected, that you step in here, because it cannot be that the employee's representative, the workers' chamber, makes use of it and their actual employees – these are really all employees – because they do not have a proper service relationship, there are maladministrations. But that is typical socialist! Shall I tell you another story? You know, she didn't get through the law, but do you know what the Chamber of Labour did? Do you know what she did when the old contract was in force? – At the Chamber of Labour, there have always been works contracts for lecturers who have obtained fees for seminars or other short-term services. At that time, when the old contract was introduced, where the service providers also had to pay part as a social security contribution, I have to say again that the Chamber of Workers of Vienna – I do not know if it did the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers – went to these speakers, to these seminar leaders and did the following: She did not say that she now has to pay employees' contributions, it is clear that her net income is less, but she said that we need to change the contracts, and from now on - and this is proven - you will receive lower fees, because we have to save ourselves the employers' contributions. At that time, when the work contract scheme came into force, all the contracts of seminar leaders and seminar organizers were shortened at the Chamber of Labour. This is socialist politics! If you are ashamed, Mr. Kaufmann, or if you are a Lower Austrian workers' chamber, do something against such conditions in Vienna! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is amazing when Mrs Bundesminister says that the aim at the time was to introduce a broad and fair social security law. Mrs. Federal Minister! Fair social security law certainly does not exist with these regulations. They have created an impenetrable, complicated social security law. They have now created the situation that many of those affected are in fact unable to know with legal certainty how to deal with them. I mean, every citizen has a right to a simple social security right, every citizen has a right to know: I'm being insured there and there. The exact opposite, however, is the case. The persons concerned cannot operate in this social security right without the involvement of professionals at all. And in many cases even the professionals are not aware of what they should do. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you listen to a debate, you might also be able to reply. But it will be very difficult for you to answer here because you do not listen. However, I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: How do you explain that, in the case of certain applications under the new provisions, professionals make reservations with both social security institutions, once at the ASVG and once at the GSVG? – There is something wrong with this law when professionals who are trained to do so have to say to those who are concerned with social security law: I make an application for security everywhere and write "with reservation" on it, and the insurance institutions should then choose themselves where compulsory insurance falls, because I do not know who to register for under this law. This is practice, Mrs Federal Minister, and you should look at it and consider whether you need not change something here. This means that insurance obligations are not clearly defined; Laws should be clear, however. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Laws should be such that the person concerned knows how to behave. That is why this is undoubtedly a bad law. With this arrangement, ladies and gentlemen, something has been created that is "excellent" to this government: This law, from my point of view, is inconvenient, unfair, and it is quite simply an act. It is like this government: You are economically hostile, you are constantly creating unjust laws, and you are producing one leg after another! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When will this government coalition learn that laws are not there to achieve new revenue but are there to create clear conditions and justice in Austria? – But with justice, this government coalition is doing very, very hard. They create tax laws in which income is no longer taxed, but which require entrepreneurs to tax profits that are far higher than the actual income. This is an injustice. They create social security laws, which are no longer applicable, in which no one knows each other. I would therefore like to call you – in summary: Make something reasonable! Revival You've got these rules. Create simple, understandable, just laws in the interests of those concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11663	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. The remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11684	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my second speech and at the end of this debate, I would like to clarify something quite clearly and inconceivably, although this has already been done by my colleagues Haselsteiner and Barmüller, but I personally feel very affected. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is the first time that from the government bank – apparently due to a report by one of your staff from the press conference – I have been subjected to something untruthful and the fairness of the Liberal Forum's policy is called into question. At the beginning of my speech, I expressly said: The aim is to achieve compulsory insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Insurance obligation – promised!]] Sorry: Insurance obligation. And that was the tenor of the press conference. I would therefore ask you to take full note of the fact that what you have reported about our press conference or what has been reported to you about our press conference is simply not correct, but rather that the objectives we are pursuing are to be discredited. I am very displeased with this kind of policy. For as much as we have criticized all this, so all the speakers – including those of the other opposition parties – have criticized what is here, no one has claimed from the outset that you are deliberately doing this, malignantly, but all were of the opinion that the law is abusive, hideous, has too little reformative power and so on; all the criticisms of this world, but not the intentional destruction, have been accused of you. That, I think, was important to say from this point of view, because I want us to return to a policy in which at least one does not agree with the good will on one side, because that would be more than a pity. Finally, I should simply like to say to you that we Liberals with this "absolute bureaucratic overkill" as follows: For test reasons, a free service contract has been notified. What was the result? – The regional health insurance fund has sent an agreement to the person concerned, Mrs. Federal Minister, that is of interest to you, even if you may be more interested in what the colleague is now telling you. She invited him to enter into a contract. The Landeskrankenkasse has sent a contract to the customer of a free official in order to conclude this contract with the Landeskrankenkasse. For example, above you can read: stamp-free and free of charge according to § 110 ASVG. If you read it carefully, carefully observe the provision and know the practice of the financial authorities, then you know that this is true, but only as long as the contract moves exclusively between the contracting parties and the social security scheme. At the time when this Treaty may have to be presented for the purposes of proof of the financial situation, the obligation to pay will be met. And I think that's really bad, for example. I find it a shame to report to someone: free of charge according to § 110 ASVG, as long as he only uses the contract between himself and the local health insurance fund, but if he places it on the market outside of this use, he is chargeable. This contract is presented to the financial office as proof, it is notified, and one has to pay. I don't like that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, this is only a small, random by-product of what you are doing, because the local health insurance fund has apparently felt the need to conclude contracts with the contracting entities or service providers. A second small aspect: Thankfully, information sheets were also included on the same programme sent to the Vienna regional health insurance fund. Only these unfortunately are God's contradictions in themselves, because in an information sheet – and always in the same case group, so that we understand ourselves correctly – the maximum contribution basis is indicated monthly at 47 600 S, but on the other hand at 45 500 S. Both amounts cannot be correct at the same time. And it is not the difference that arises when you convert 14 references to 12 because that would be a completely different amount. I mean, if this is the information material that the social security institution provides to those concerned, you must not be surprised at it – that is to say, at the end of the day – that not 250 000 people have reported, but only 6 000. It is a need for me to conclude, Mrs Federal Minister: On this argument neither you nor a speaker have been addressed by the government parties. The fact that only 6 000, not the expected 250 000, have been reported, remains incontrovertible in the room. In other words: They had to give us a right on this serious question. And is it not urgent for you if you have estimated in an order of 6,000 to 300 000? If this is not urgent for you, I do not know if you are taking your ministerial responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11730	No further words are available. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the place for this purpose. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 686/A (E) by Mr Dr Kier on the repair of the social security obligation for "free service contracts" and "new self-employed". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion, Dr Kier, for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11769	We are now entering into a short debate. This is the request of the honourable Member. Trattner, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Mr Böhacker's motion for a resolution 47/A(E) concerning cold progression, has a period of time up to 15. May this year to sit. After the short debate, the vote will take place. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Trattner. Do not be excluded from any other information from the computer. [[Abg. May. Trattner: I don't have one anyway!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11799	Mr President. - No one on the government bank. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The cold progression is a subject that has been working on us liberals for a very long time, not only today and this year, but already since 1993/94, that is, after five years since the then tax reform in 1989. The Finance Minister or the Federal Government has repeatedly turned out to be inflation-winners. The development of wage tax since the 1989 wage tax reform shows that wage tax revenue increased from 88 billion schilling in 1989 to 183.3 billion schilling in 1997. This is an increase of far more than 100 percent, by 100 billion schilling. When compared with the rate of inflation of 1989 to 1998 in the order of 27 per cent and more employees in the order of about 10 per cent in 1989 to 1998, it must be noted that the State or the Minister of Finance is inflation-winners in the order of 50 billion schilling. These 50 billion schillings have been retained for years by the Austrian taxpayer, the Austrian families. We liberals have already made a long time ago request for the elimination of this cold progression in the financial committee, and we now ask you to give your consent to this request being dealt with urgently in the Financial Committee, so that Austrian taxpayers will finally receive the money that the Minister of Finance reserves. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you believe that you can build economic growth only on export increases – I admit, export growth is there – but do not do the least for domestic demand, then you will be taught a better one. If cold progression is not eliminated in the case of directly available income, economic growth will only be based on export increases, and if export increases do not occur and domestic demand continues to decline, then the problem is that unemployment will increase. Today, we are faced with unemployment rates of 300 000, early retirements of over 200 000 and more and more emergency workers. We are also faced with the fact that young people who have just completed schooling are not accommodated in the labour market, whereas those who are in a re-training process are not yet included in these statistical figures. If the direct income of the population is not finally passed on to the population by the Minister of Finance's return to inflation, these figures will increase dramatically. This will then lead to a further downturn in economic growth, economic growth expectations will not occur, the economic location of Austria will continue to be at risk, and the population will be practically again under pressure – as they have already fallen on them in the last two years – so that the Minister of Finance can send his letter to Brussels and say: We have reached the Maastricht criteria! – This will only be due to the fact that the Austrians will have been taken into the pocket rather than structural budget measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, it should also be noted that, especially at the moment of the changeover from schilling to the euro by banks, conversion costs are forecast in the order of 8 billion schilling, and these 8 billion shilling are, of course, to be transferred to customers, because somehow they have to be financed. Account fees will be increased, the fees for credit cards will be increased; in the conversation is also a so-called special levy for euro conversion costs by banks. Who's gonna pay for that? – Interest on savings will be reduced while credit interest increases, although there is no justification for this. The "great" accept the money not in Austria, but in a foreign currency, because the interest rate is much cheaper. Payments will be made to the small and medium-sized earners who have already been very burdened by the previous load packages. They will now be used again to pay the expensive costs for the changeover from schilling to the euro for the banks. At this moment it is simply urgent that the cold progression be carried out. Today morning in the current An hour was listed by the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, which in Austria has everything changed or is necessary to ensure economic growth. He said that it must also be based on domestic demand, for which tax policy needs to be changed and the additional wage costs must be reduced – all the things that the liberals here in the House called for a long time ago. In addition, it is necessary to correct the anti-employment factors, i.e. the regulatory density with which we have to fight in Austria, said the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce here in plenary. However, the ÖVP is always in the opposite direction when it comes to the legislative proposals. In addition, the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce has also criticized the low equity ratio in the enterprises. In this respect, too, the liberals have long ago submitted the application for non-taxation of the non-compulsory profits, which should lead to a strengthening of equity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! You only need to agree to these requests, then companies have a capital gain and may be able to cope with any thunderstorms in the event of a recession. But if you are always saying in Sunday's speeches that capital is to be strengthened, but you are always rejecting appropriate measures here in Parliament, even though the requests made by the Liberal Group are very useful and are aimed at doing so, then I really cannot help you any more. Only one thing is clear: You have to stand outside for what you decide in here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You cannot go out and say that the drinking tax must be abolished if you vote against it in the House. You cannot go out and say that the additional wage costs must be reduced if you are here in the House voting against all measures aimed at reducing the additional wage costs. You would have plenty of opportunities: The federal government has achieved the proceeds from privatizations of x-billion Schilling, from the so-called privatisation of Bank Austria, from the merger of Bank Austria with CA. The privatisation of Bank Austria's federal shares has resulted in well over 10 billion schilling. Special dividends from the Austrian National Bank are transferred to the budget – but not, as the liberals demand, for a tax reform, but to stop budget holes. You only need to use the lotto-toto shares that are held in the PSK – 34 percent by the PSK at the Lotto-Toto – with a scale of 4 billion schilling. You would have a playing capital in the order of looser 30 billion schilling. This could be the case. They carry out a tax reform in the sense of the Austrian population and economic growth, so that Austria does not lose more jobs, but that they are at least kept. That is why we ask you to give your consent to this request for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11876	A speaking time of 5 minutes applies to the other speakers. – The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11898	Mr President. High house! Those who listened to my previous speaker could gain the impression that everything was going quite simply without problems. But I must say: It seems that the "F" party is not doing so exactly with the truth, because only in the motion for a resolution on which this deadline proposal refers, it is said that "the last collective reform took place in 1989, which is why after eight years it is to be taken care of"... and so on. I have to correct you, honourable Member. This rate is wrong insofar as the last collective reform took place not in 1989 but in the second stage of the tax reform, which entered into force in 1994. This is easy to understand when, at the time, the wage tax burden fell as a percentage of GDP in the average salary range from 12.5 percent in 1993 to 11.2 percent in 1994. It is true that the wage tax burden has increased continuously since this reform, and the wage tax rate is a long-term average of between 14 and 15 percent. After tax reforms, it is slightly lower and then increases again. It is calculated for 1998 at a level of about 17.5 percent. I am not saying that something must not happen, but this increase, as we all know, is due not only to the cold progression – as you have said here, Mr Trattner – but also to wage tax measures of the savings package, and on this we have known ourselves by a large majority. This includes, for example, the quantification of the special expenditure or the deductibility of the social security contributions from special payments in case of no longer on-going reference or the removal of the general deduction amount. Ladies and gentlemen! The tax system is very difficult and certainly not over-happy and should be changed in a few weeks. It is true that since 1988 wage tax has increased enormously, from 104 billion schilling in 1988 to probably 183 billion schilling in this year, but we will only know this very well after this year. With corporate taxes – and this should also be said in this context – the increase is about 75 percent. Corporate taxes increased to around 98.9 billion schilling between 1988 and 1998, an increase of 67 percent. I believe that we must look at all the areas; because this development must be controlled by adaptation steps, the Federal Government has set up a tax reform committee whose task and objective is to prepare a corresponding reform by the year 2000. If a reduction in the wage tax rate is assumed by about 2 percentage points to return to the long-term normal average, this means at least a reduction of 20 billion schilling for a gross wage total of about 1000 billion schilling. Such a reduction means a reduction of approximately 450 S per month for each payer. This is about the amount that reaches a so-called notable threshold, so that this is also recognised by the payers. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How do you want to finance this? You want to finance this through a expropriation tax?]] I do not doubt that wage tax reduction is very important and that even with small and medium-sized incomes, it immediately flows back into the domestic economy. It is expected that around 40 percent of the wage tax reduction will again benefit from the budget. Of course, it is also necessary to reduce the tax burden. To this end, the Tax Reform Commission must also examine the factor of work in order to be able to make discharges here. So you see, my Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of action to be taken, and it is certainly not possible to achieve this by setting deadlines or within a few weeks. Our aim is to achieve a reasonable tax reform by the year 2000 in the context of a reasonable budgetary policy and also on the ground of sound state finances, for which we also see ourselves responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11941	The next speaker is Mr Michael Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e11966	Mr President. High house! For me, it is not surprising that, with a deadline request, the liberals want to draw attention to the fact that they have already said something about tax reform. That's clear. [[Abg. Böhacker: Well, not so superlative!]] In the meantime, there are indeed significant signs that the first step in the tax reform towards the family will also be followed by a second one, namely a reduction in tariffs. It is only a small point, ladies and gentlemen, that is one thing, and the other is the content of it, because it is only necessary to reduce tariffs. The much more important thing is what is actually to be implemented in the direction of a tax reform. And to that end, when I read your proposal 47/A, I have to say that, the liberals have remained guilty of everything. But maybe that's still in a supplement on this point. [[Abg. Scheibner: We will not be guilty of you at all, Mr. Cot.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We of the ÖVP see the matter naturally and in this particular case of course very much related, because for us the first significant step towards tax reform is already quite visible, in the form of a family tax relief, which, as I believe, has brought a very important consequence for a discharge of the middle class in Austria. I should really like to say with great pleasure to our group: It is a victory of the children in this reform, which is now being made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The tax reform towards family taxes will be effective at the beginning of next year, if the first steps are taken if the amount of child drop-off is already increased by 125 S per month and child. In addition, we can increase family support. But as early as the year 2000, a much more important reform will begin, which will bring a family with a child of 6 000 s a year and a family with several children a significant tax relief. I think this is very important and important, because it is no question that families with several children actually consume more money, and it is also no question for us by the EIA that these families in particular need to be helped, and that is what we can guarantee with this reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, my group and I do not regard this as a gift to taxpayers, but as an appreciation of the performance of families, and I believe that we should all see it in this House. However, I would also like to address the question of what the next tax reform will bring in terms of content. We are working on it, we will be presenting a concept by the ÖVP. I can express my personal opinion on what the essential content should be. This is a collective reform. However, I believe that there must be a special area, namely the middle class, which is tax-debursed. In other words, those persons who pay a wage tax of 22, 32 or 42 percent today belong to a collective reform. These tariffs should be reduced from my point of view. The second measure will be to take out work, but it will have to be considered on the other hand how to tax resource consumption in return. There are a number of proposals from the EIA, and I hope that we can achieve them. The third point I would like to address is self-sufficiency. This too, in our opinion, is a tax advantage. [[Abg. Scheibner: You did exactly the opposite!]] Last year, the pension reform was decided, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to reduce the tax burden on the pension for the next tax reform. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are in the government and have done exactly the opposite!]] I am delighted with your special attention. I just want to tell you what we are planning to do with the next tax reform. They owe us all this so far, and that is the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You did exactly the opposite a year ago!]] Finally, for my group, I would like to say that: It is not urgent and important to deal with the request of the liberals by May. It is urgent and important to relieve the middle class in Austria, and we will continue to work consistently in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12074	The next speaker is Mr Reinhart Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12099	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that my predecessor will again show up in the public, unless he can explain why he is speaking here in any tax reform towards improved self-sufficiency by means of tax evasion, but is opposed to all the votes. That's typical ÖVP behavior! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am of the opinion, Mr Dietachmayr of the Social Democratic Party, that there was no wage tax reform in 1994. – Professor Novotny is careful. – There was only an increase in the general tax rate by 3 840 S annually. That's all. But that's not the yellow from the egg! Professor! 3.5 billion Schilling, Federal estimates 1998, presented by Minister Edlinger. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: 10 billion Schilling tax failure!]] You can read how I accept! 1989: 88 billion Schilling, 1993: 139 billion Schilling, 1994: 134.7 billion Schilling. Is that right? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I'd rather not talk to you about tax questions!]] Is that right, Professor, what's in there? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Yeah, yeah, we know. Do you know what has become manifest in this House today? – The moral image and the state of this coalition. The Federal Minister here explains that, although the social partners are getting documents on employment, not the evil opposition parties. This is the way in which this republic, the government which has inherited, transmits documents to the so-called social partners, but not to the Members here in the house. There's something behind that again, or you'd give it to me. I'll tell you one thing: The social partners in Austria, who were perhaps once problem solvers, have now become a problem and a club of lies barons! [[Abg. Schwemlein: You would have liked to spell it!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A club of lies! This is proved only by the statements of Mr Vergestnich and Mr Madethaner. [[Abg. Donabauer: Have a good time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be: In here, we are always in favour of a good vote with the government, and outside it is explained that we are abolishing the drinking tax, of course we are in favour of a reduction in the wage tax, but when it comes to requests for deadlines, then we cannot vote in favour of party discipline. Even if we wanted to, we can't. – But you will certainly not be able to explain to anyone outside why you are against a reduction in the additional wage costs. You are the ones who write in every brochure, the additional wage costs must be reduced. That would be a possibility! An immediate reduction in the wage tax resulted in a massive reduction in the unemployment rate in Austria. That's proven. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Say what you want to shorten!]] – Mr Dietachmayr! That's not new. Listen, I'll tell you! As early as 1995, Professor Lehner called for a massive wage tax reduction. So this claim is not just three days old. It is not that this must be done in three or four weeks. It's been known for years. A record value of 200 billion schilling will be achieved in 2000. But no one will touch it up there, because no one will be there anymore who has to answer it. The year 2000 is actually chosen so that you can save yourself over the next election period according to the motto: Behind us the flood! That's your kind of politics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Explain why you feel that you have made the last tariff adjustment not quite ten years ago. The last genuine reform of the collective bargaining system was in 1989. They are constantly dealing with flicking, constantly turning on some small wheels and don't recognize the essentials. The essential thing for the recovery of the Austrian economy would be the immediate reduction in wage tax. – That is written in your prayer book, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12213	For the just-used formulation that the government is a "klub of lies," I give a call for order. Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12241	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum will agree to the deadline application of the Freedom Party. We also believe that the government parties or the coalition should say an open word here at the right time. If you set up tomorrow's "Kurier" – I think Mr Spindelegger did not do this before he got out of here – then you will see very clearly what Mr Finanzminister says. You may not be interested because it is not part of your group, but perhaps his statements for the coalition government are significant. Read this, please. He's punishing you for lies, Mr. Spindelegger! All that you have said here is clearly different from what Mr Finanzminister has said. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only that many years through the budgets in Austria have been co-financed by the fact that inflation adjustment has been prevented or not granted in connection with the progression of wage and income tax, will this federal government in a few weeks - I suppose - be very narrow with another very controversial law, namely family support, a margin that would have been available for a tax reform 2000 which has been announced for many years, in order not to say nothing to destroy. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is an issue that should be discussed as quickly as possible in the Committee on Finance. Here you should just tell the truth! Mr Spindelegger! It is legitimate to say that this is the family policy we want from the ÖVP. As always, I hold back from this, it is not what corresponds to the liberal notions, but it does not change the legitimacy of your statements. But one thing I would ask you to say, namely, that you must not look forward to the middle class, to those concerned, who rightly complain about this cold progression. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that the margin for manoeuvring for tax reform was between 20 and 24 billion schilling. You know that the cost of family transfers now amounts to 14 billion schilling. You know all of this, or your experts know it. And You can see from this that the scope for wage taxation – which we are talking about when we are talking about the cold progression – has become very small. Now we are not talking about corporate taxation, the taxation of the middle class, the taxation of non-profit profits and other relevant data, which could perhaps support the small and medium-sized enterprises your group represents in their truly remarkable competition and also life and survival struggle. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if you are speaking here in the House, to say the full truth as well. Allow me to make a few comments – because the opportunity is so cheap – to this family package, which is controversial in our eyes. I still think it unbearable to say, in this context, that ÖVP-Mandatare, also Mr Bartenstein, says that it is the political will that this horizontal compensation should be created and that no consideration should be given to the principle of subsidiarity at all. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Spindelegger says that families with three or five children – three in my case, five in the case of Mr Bartenstein – will receive substantial contributions from the budget from the year 2000. As long as you do not want to see and understand that family transfers are also a question of subsidiarity, that incomes and assets must be taken into account as long as you pass by on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12286	No one is reporting on this. We come to the vote on the request for the financial committee to report on Mr Böhacker's motion for a resolution 47/A(E) concerning cold progression until the 15th time. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. That is what we have ended this debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12327	I take the negotiations on the 5th and 6th. Agenda item again. Mrs. Hostasch has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! May I bring you back to health policy and refer to the Health Promotion Act. I am very pleased that this law is the subject of the current debate, and I hope, I think, that this draft law will be approved. I would like to thank Mr Rasinger, in particular, for having made a significant contribution to the fact that the intention expressed by the Federal Government in the government's programme has been to increase the use of health promotion measures. I therefore also had the right back cover and was finally able to enforce the corresponding directive for Parliament in a joint decision in the Council of Ministers. If this law finds your approval, then we have the opportunity to support the various programmes, health promotion projects and to achieve medium and longer-term goals with an additional volume of 100 million schilling a year. This is a very important factor in prevention, which can be set up not only in the short term but also in medium and long-term initiatives. We have decided to implement the political objective of the Health Promotion Act on the Health Austria Fund, which has been newly constructed and has a different form than before. The background we have decided on this proposal is experience, also from abroad, which proves that such a multi-layered concern, such as the various individual projects, individual initiatives, can be better implemented in the sense of supplementing existing ones, through a privately organised structure, which, of course, is under political responsibility. I would also like to refer to the reference to administrative costs in the debate. I am convinced that that structure, which we have now planned, is very cost-effective, very slender and very beneficial in terms of implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: 9 percent!]] The 9 per cent, ladies and gentlemen who are defined here, are a maximum that must not be exceeded. You will certainly have taken the debate in the Committee on Health that it is planned that the board members, who are to accompany important political initiatives and, ultimately, prepare for a decision, take this role on a voluntary basis. Here has really been tried to build a very slim structure. I believe it is also important to stress that the various partners have to work together in this newly formed curatorium of the Health Austria Fund. I believe that it is quite right that not only the founding members of the Healthy Austria Fund, but also national, municipal and also other representatives are present, because my central concern in implementing this law is that not existing, functioning, existing programmes in the individual countries, local authorities, communities should be replaced by individual institutions in the various structures of our health measures, but that those measures which, based on this law, complement the existing, functioning, gaps and we can build a comprehensive network to improve health promotion. I would like to stress this, in particular, because I also ask for your support. If you are confronted with individual considerations, always take into account that not existing ones are to be replaced by these means, but that these resources should be used in addition to existing ones. I would also like to point out that Mrs Povysil referred to the importance of social security in the field of health care and prevention. In their budgets, the Austrian social security agencies apply a total of about 11 billion Schilling for health promotion in compliance with the statutory contract that has been transferred to them. That is to say, the accusation in this direction that no measures are taken within the meaning of the legal mandate goes into emptyness from my point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to comment on this law any more. I am very glad that with these opportunities we have an additional opportunity to achieve further improvements in an important health field, namely health care. – I thank you now for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12389	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. The speaking time is set to 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12411	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that any health care initiative is welcome and therefore worthy of support. But the foundation of the Fund, as it is implemented by the Health Promotion Act, which will soon be decided, is really a milestone in health policy, and I therefore believe that this initiative will find the support of all those who have an idea in health care and who are good will. I believe, as Mrs Bundesminister has said, that it is not a question of taking away social security a task or restricting the countries or communities which have already been very initiative in this area, but rather of pooling, channeling, and thus simply increasing the Austrians' willingness to do so. This has actually been the task of the fund already at its foundation and gets content and life with 100 million schilling donation per year, and this should simply be used as an opportunity. I would like to make a second comment, from the sports side. Sport has always understood itself as an area of prevention that believes that sport is already prevention. We have also set up initiatives in the field of sport for many years. On this occasion, I would just like to remind you of a few: There are the fitness movements of a number of associations and umbrella associations, which are used annually by Zig thousands of people. There are, for example, the cardiovascular actions of the associations that are used by Zig thousands. That is why we are also proud from the sports side – so I would almost say – that this step can now be taken and in the future will bring something first and foremost to the Austrians. Now I am grateful for what the Federal Minister has already said, but Dr. Rasinger was not inside at this time, so you can repeat it. It is not only thanks to those who have tried for years to get additional money, but above all to thank Dr. Rasinger for having been there with such an acribie and endurance, so that it will succeed in 1997 and can now be implemented. With this thanks, ladies and gentlemen, all those who will be involved should actually make a promise, a commitment, the promise, the commitment that they will see to it that two things do not happen: The fact that – first – it is not done in accordance with the principle of foundry and – second – it is not a bureaucratic project that will be launched, but that it will be the actual content of the project, which will show the Austrians a quantum leap in health care, in prevention and in which their participation will be required. – In this sense, Mrs Federal Minister, I wish you a good success; the support of almost all is for sure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12449	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12470	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Löschnak thanked the father of the law, Deputie Rasinger, Rasinger thanked the Federal Minister. Finally, the law has also got a mother in the person of the woman Federal Minister. I can only hope that the new mother of this law does not make maintenance claims, because this 100 million schillings a year, which have to be spent, should be tapped from other sources. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Are you the birth aider?]] If the revenue is now taken from the sales tax and it is also the aim of this law to finance uncovered fields in the promotion of health care, I wonder what remains. I also told you in the Committee, because if social security – I do not think it quite – 11 billion schilling is used for preventive measures, then it is not up to these 100 million more or less. It would also be legally obliged to provide health care and prevention. These 100 million must also be paid by social security. On the one hand, it is obliged to prevent, on the other hand, the law states that measures and initiatives falling within the scope of statutory social security are not covered by this law. So there's nothing left. I am curious about how the fund "Healthy Austria", which is now without success for ten years now – now upgraded with 100 million schilling annually – will deal with this money. 9 per cent – we already know – are committed to the administration alone. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That is too much, and that is why we have already refused this law in committee, and we will do so today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you a smoker, Mr. Colleague? Are you a smoker, Mr. Colleague?]] I must address the issue of vaccination briefly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes or no? Do you smoke, or don't you smoke?]] – Mr Klubobmann! If you are preaching health promotion, but if you are promoting tobacco cultivation - I have the question - in Austria with 8.8 million schilling, the EU is promoting 13 billion and you are banned from advertising so that nothing is consumed, but I have to say that this is a schizophrenic health policy, Mrs Federal Minister! Invest this 8.8 million schilling in health promotion and not in the promotion of tobacco cultivation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So you're a smoker!]] Now for vaccination. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're a doctor and a smoker!]] – If you ask me if I smoke, I'll ask you if you're a drinker. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Water drinker!]] The problem of vaccination is large, but it is a good thing, in itself, that a five-fold vaccination recommended by the Supreme Council of Sanity, which is not yet available, but is expected to take place from July, will be applied with a single vaccination. That's to be supported. From this good point of view, the legislator and above all you, Mrs Federal Minister, are making another unfortunate thing, because all the experts say: The switch to the dead vaccine only has a sense when the rate of vaccination increases and becomes higher than it has been before, because with the live vaccine we have had a high rate of vaccination, and thus an immunity to the wild virus was given. With the dead vaccine, everyone who is vaccinated is immune, can't get a polio, but he can record the wild virus as a carrier, carry it around and infect it. - That's the problem. All experts say – above all university lecturer Dr. Johannes Möst from Innsbruck – that the switch to the vaccine only makes sense if the vaccination rate is increased and kept as high as possible. If They are now delegating the responsibility for the vaccination and the implementation of the vaccination to the federal states, not giving any instructions as to how to achieve the highest possible rate of vaccination, and some federal states intend to order only the health offices and the chief doctors to do so, then the rate of vaccination will decrease, and the opposite will be achieved by what is required and what is the objective of this law. That is why we will also reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12592	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12622	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This health promotion law was a very great act, and I would also like to thank Mr Pumberger, Mr Rasinger and the Vice-Chancellor Schüssel very much, who have understood how to enforce everything accordingly and take initiatives. It has been shown that the government also attaches great importance to this prevention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the last centuries, life expectancy has been pushed up around the double. We know the reasons for this: Nutrition, hygiene and success of medicine. If we compare the causes of death of 1905 with today's, then one must say that 1905 were two thirds of the causes of death TB, pneumonia and infections. Today, there are two thirds of cardiovascular disease and cancer. In the past, malnutrition was the problem, today it is overnourishment. In the past, the robbery was the reason because of too much work, today is often the consumer behaviour, the leisure behavior is the cause of our suffering. I would like to ask four questions which can be answered and which are also politically enforceable. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to take care: First: What is the relationship between lifestyle and health? – Second: What are the causes of health - threatening lifestyles? – Third: What is the cost of life - threatening health? – And fourth: What possibilities and limits exist to achieve an adequate individual’s health behavior? There are limits, and we must also be aware of them. I would like to point out very briefly what health damage affects lifestyles, such as alcohol and tobacco. I would just like to point out that 30 percent more people who smoke die of small diseases such as influenza or pneumonia. Drug abuse, drug abuse and AIDS are a major problem in our time. I would like to point out the political consequences of this, Mrs Minister: What does our smoking law actually bring? – There is a need for action here, Mrs. Minister! – Nothing does it right now. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Nothing brings it!]] I agree. Nothing at all! Secondly, What do we do against drug abuse? – There should also be restrictions installed. We may also be able to take Seehofer from Germany as an example. We have not built up EU drug and AIDS programmes as we could have done. Mrs. Minister! In this area, we can therefore do more than has been done so far, and perhaps this programme will provide the opportunity to intervene with vehemently. I would like to point out why there are limits. There are limits – we are all not saints, even though we sometimes appear like that, because we like to accept everything we accept – because the lifestyle is, of course, influenced by the attitude, by the mental attitude, in addition to the material possibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't look like a saint!]] He is influenced by the willingness to live a risky life that has increased. Existing social security networks contribute significantly to this. I would like to point out that health insurance actually contributes to every sense of stupidity. That means it's socialized every stupid thing we do. That is to say, the solidarity community contributes to alcohol abuse, sporty nonsense and so on. And I think there are limits. I would like to point out a limit, because even if we all talk about healthy life – when it comes to displaying a certain behavior of enjoyment, you drink, you smoke, and you apologise with the purpose of life, with the quality of life, with the better life. It's some simple sausages – I have to say that too – they say: I'd rather live shorter, but the better. – These are limits that enter our lives, and here we have to intervene. [[Abg. Say thou: speak of thy Book.]] We should work actively to bring them down as far as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12692	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12713	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Khol! I am glad that you will certainly have calls for me again. This federal law is the admission of eleven years of inactivity. You have been in the government for 11 years, and you have had the opportunity to take prevention more seriously for 11 years, in so far as it is more serious that you do not only now expect 100 million schilling to be necessary to make the measures tangible. – You could have done that much earlier, and you should have read only the papers of Dr. Busek, who dealt with the "Health 2000". He himself came up with it at the time. The Liberal Forum was not yet in Parliament. So if you were perhaps more concerned with Mr Busek, perhaps you could make up for some of the things you actually failed to do in time. They would not have to wait until Dr. Rasinger felt that it was necessary to create new professions in health care and that the possibilities that were now being used up were not exhausted. That's a failure, even if you're making an intermediate call now. Please! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You can't do it right! If we don't do anything, criticise! You can never do it right to your senior teacher group! If you don't do anything, criticise if we do something, we'll do it too late!]] The problem is, as a citizen in Austria, we have waited eleven years for you to become active, and we have introduced ourselves under prophylaxis to something different than what you have done so far. Mr. Khol! You chose it yourself! But I thank you for your call. I assume that you will be encouraged to act a little faster next time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They say that the funds are used in addition to the existing ones – okay! A previous speaker said that would be a milestone in health policy. Only, I wonder why you need a maximum of 9 per cent of the administrative costs if these are already existing structures, if that is already a system that may not have worked well up to now, but you have the hope that it can work better. But then you don't have to put the administrative costs as high as the span. Then you can say: Try it once with 4 percent, maybe you'll come out! They say the curators don't have a salary when they go to meetings. After great, they still cause fees when they fly from Vorarlberg to Vienna. So the system doesn't work for free. I see that we need good curators, I see that there is a need for networking with the communities and regions, but to say that all this is so to speak for God's wages is probably exaggerating in this regard. Mrs. Federal Minister! There's a pikanery in the government template. We say that if it is only an extension of existing structures anyway, then we do not actually need this law. This law consists of five different paragraphs. In Section 1 para. 3 states: As far as personal names are mentioned in the law only in male form, they refer to women and men in the same way. If you read through all the law, you would have to delete these paragraphs and simply read only in § 5 para. 2 must write: The Federal Minister for Finance is entrusted with the execution of § 4. – That would be the only thing you would have had to change in order to write these personal names throughout. We are not only of the opinion that we do not need this, but we would be satisfied with the existing foundations, and You might have been able to find out by means of a regulation. In terms of gender equality, you have not even tried to implement it. We will be able to support the proposal on vaccination against communicable child paralysis, because we believe that any type of vaccination in terms of improving the protection situation of individual citizens is certainly necessary. We want to support the aim of achieving a higher rate of vaccination, and therefore we are grateful for this, even though we also believe that vaccinations do not necessarily require a law, but we would like us to have the same goal without laws and only through regulations. I do not think that Parliament is deeply interested in what types of vaccination are necessary and which are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12757	The next speaker was Mrs Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12778	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Both health professionals and doctors are accused of devoting more to repair medicine than to prophylaxis. These draft laws prove the opposite. At the Committee meeting, the opposition sought arguments against the Health Promotion Act. What importance does health have for you? How to combat the tobacco law, which was very mild and is not even observed in this House? Non-smoker protection is uninteresting. The smokers do not find themselves reckless, but accuse the non-smokers of intolerance and animosity when they are asked not to select the mucous membrane and to make breathing difficult. I wish the Fund as much success as the Baden-based students who have won an emotional majority, which logical arguments could not have been made half a year earlier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ATW's sales increased by 11.5 percent in 1997 to 65 billion Schilling and profit by 24 percent to 1.5 billion Schilling. The follow-up costs of this Abusus were not calculated. Let us be an example, Mr President, to make this House a nicotine and alcohol-free zone. Now to the Vaccination Act: I am horrified that Mr Pumberger, who had a condition of study as a Latin, does not know that virus is sexual and not male. At least the doctors should describe the virus with the right sex. During the bathing season of the 1950s, there were polyomyelitis epidemics annually – with dead, paralysed and survivors in iron lungs. These epidemics were terminated with the approval of the dead vaccine to Salk. The swallow vaccine with the weakened viruses of Sabin was reduced in large-scale vaccinations the risk of child paralysis. In order to completely eliminate these, like once the smallpox, – a goal of the WHO – we need a high rate of vaccination. In the future – that must be our concern – every infant will be immunised with the five-fold vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, haemophilus B and polio. If we now believe that mothers will not go to this vaccination, then I have to add that they had to go to swallow with the children in the preschool age. I do not see the disadvantages of vaccination with a five-fold vaccine compared to vaccination with the oral vaccine, especially since it was vaccinated at different times, as the oral vaccinations could always only take place at a certain time, as the polyomyelitis viruses are Enteroviruses and were therefore not vaccinated during the summer season. The risk of a vaccine polio is minimal in the case of prior immunisation with the dead vaccine, the further vaccination with the oral vaccine makes sense, as the intestine is the gateway. There is a zero risk in case of no intervention. Each disease is much more risky for health and life than vaccination. Diphtheria epidemics can be quickly imported from Eastern European countries, but are heavily diagnosed by the rareness of the disease. Ubiquitary occurring tetanus clostrins can kill non-vaccinated, and also cause pertussis pathogens and hemophilus in childhood life-threatening diseases with possible permanent damage. We cannot accept the Greens' motion for a resolution, because the Minister for Health is impossible to achieve the fact that companies have to produce vaccines, which is not in their power. I assume that there will be much of the vaccine as a single vaccine. Tetanus is vaccinated separately, Tetanus is vaccinated with diphtheria – whether pertussis makes sense, because it is not meant to be vaccinated over the second age – and polio will certainly be available in single vaccines. However, if the companies cannot sell, they will not produce. This law is excellently suited for protection. We agree with this law, but certainly not with the motion for a resolution that we cannot endorse in any way. The Ministry will launch a large educational campaign in autumn 1998 to inform parents and take fears. And the side effects: The side effects are often mistakenly seen as such, for at the same time there may be diseases that appear to the parents as side effects, but in reality none. The more complete the vaccination of the population, the more diseases are eradicated. Children's diseases are wrongly regarded as harmless. Therefore, as has been said, our fight to eradicate polio and other children's and infectious diseases, and we will have to try to get more resources to eradicate other diseases as well. In fact, there is an important concern to us social democrats, namely fate, circumstances of life and health of people, so we agree with this law and are already considering health promotion measures for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12860	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12881	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Health promotion always has a sustainable structural change to its goal, and, analogous to WHO health promotion criteria, any health promotion measure must also be gender specific, as suggested this morning. This also means that women's health promotion needs to be focused on a serious interest in real health promotion, especially with regard to disadvantaged groups of women such as old women, poor women and women in the countryside. We very much welcome the fact that, at the initiative of our colleague, Rasinger, the creation of his own health promotion pot has now been explicitly launched and that this pot is out of ministerial bureaucracy. It would be important, however, for the occupation – and I ask once again, although it is generally anchored, where it says: All relevant actors in health promotion must be involved in the operational implementation – including representatives of women’s organisations such as the Women’s Health Centre, the Women’s Houses, the Women’s Advisory Offices and the Women’s Emergency Institutions in order to ensure gender health promotion in Austria. – That was my contribution here and my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12911	The next speaker is Mr Maier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12933	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The arguments of the opposition were known from the Health Committee, but today they have come back in the well-known form. They are scurry, they do not vote, and they are noted in particular at the FPÖ: It's just opposition at all costs. Let me briefly address some of these false objections. – Mr Povysil said that the contribution of health insurance failed. I can remind them that health insurance is spending 11 billion schilling on health promotion. If it thinks that additional funds should be loosened, will it be open to say how it intends to finance this – for example, with an increase in health insurance contributions? Then she should say that clearly and thus go to the public. Mr Gredler – she was not in the Health Committee – refers to the failure of the previous Austrian health policy, in particular as regards the Health Austria Fund. – Mrs Colleague! They apparently do not know the report "Health promotion in Austria" by the Health Austria Fund, which was completed in 1997. Let me tell you: 309 projects, particularly in the local sector, were carried out in 1997. Mr Pumberger could not, of course, let go of the Healthy Austria Fund. He spoke of a "successlessly vegetationd fund "Healthy Austria". – On behalf of the staff, Mr Pumberger, I reject this allegation with all repressiveness! This fund has worked successfully with the resources now available, and this, for example, confirms this research on health promotion projects in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This law, which we will decide today, does not deal with primary medical prevention. Health promotion, as we understand it, is about non-medical-curative activities. Medical-curative activities continue to be and continue to be matters of the municipalities, the countries and social insurance companies. Scientists have made clear the conditions for health promotion years ago. Consistency is the knowledge of the causes and conditions of the emergence of illness and of health, the condition is the impact of the causes and conditions, the conditions are organizational and structural conditions, the condition is human, technical, scientific resources and – and that is the decisive – political will. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The political will is present: Today, the Health Promotion Act, which meets the conditions quoted, will be adopted. It is about health promotion, health education and health information. And we have two objectives to be achieved by this law: less disease and more health. – I may invite you to accept this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e12981	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the Federal Minister for her good condition, because such a health day, on which she is present from early morning to late evening on the government bank and which is only about health, this Parliament has very rarely seen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The term "health" is thoughtfully linked to the healing of diseases, to restoring our well-being – we know that repair medicine in Austria accounted for 90 percent of our health budget, an amount of around 190 billion schilling. That is why, I think, we need to talk more about the forward-looking health care. For, Mrs Federal Minister – I think we are of an opinion – only get healthy, that is not enough. The foreign exchange must remain healthy – in the interests of people, but also of our economy. The Health Promotion Act now in place allows urgent steps to be taken towards promoting the awareness, health care, health education and health information of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many speakers of the opposition parties said that this was just a drop on the hot stone. But those who deal with health policy know that medicine is usually administered in drops, and such drops, repeatedly given, can almost perform miracles. That's why I'm saying: Even this drop on a hot stone can be a good start! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kiermaier.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that the Healthy Austria Fund is leading children and young people as an important target group in its programme. For one thing must be clear to us: We have to start with the youngest. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I have already commented on this subject in the Committee and would like to confirm it once again: In Austria, we have enshrined an increased family allowance for severely disabled children in the Family Allowance Act. Over 50,000 families already receive this increased family allowance. Where are the diseases with these children? – In allergies, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, skin disease, hearing impairment, mongolism, neurological suffering, pulmonary suffering and cetera. I therefore believe that, especially with regard to today's law enforcement medicine, we must necessarily extend the scope of preventive medicine to our little ones. I should also like to mention something that I know you have already tried to do in this regard, namely the poor health values that are determined by the German Federal Forces' Committee on Positions. I know you're not responsible for everything. But it is clear that when young people in the 19th century There are a wide range of diseases, mostly from school to school. The Positions Commission detects damage to attitudes in 25 percent of young men, with 15 percent eye damage and 10 percent problems with the respiratory organs. I therefore believe that it is essential – and I repeat consciously – to start with the children in school and also with the toddlers with the care medicine. Ladies and gentlemen! The smallest federal state in Austria, the "Ländle", is progressing here with a good example. Vorarlberg has already implemented a preventive programme in the positive sense, namely health promotion, and there is a great result: In Vorarlberg, the women and men in relation to the rest of Austria have the highest life expectancy, the lowest cholesterol levels, the least sick days and the healthiest teeth. And I mean what Vorarlberg is leading us to, must be our goal all over Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! We also want to gain more in terms of personal responsibility. We do not want to press ourselves, but we want to take responsibility for this. Health and personal well - being are the prerequisites for man’s being able to develop fully as an individual, but also in society. What benefits do we benefit from prosperity and modern technology when our mental and physical constitution is weakened by civil diseases? So I mean: It is not just getting healthy, but staying healthy must be the goal of a forward-looking health policy. That is why the Austrian People's Party will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13075	The next speaker is Mrs Buder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13096	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The health promotion law to be adopted today is to be welcomed, yes it is gratifying, because this law makes 100 million schilling more available for health promotion each year. Health promotion is, of course, linked to the information that is so important to all of us. The opposition parties see this differently. In part, they believe that the funds are too small, in part they want the funds to be used differently. We believe that the SPÖ and many people in Austria do not think so and are glad that these initiatives provide resources for the development and implementation of long-term programmes, which are target-group-oriented. This law does not intervene in existing activities, but should also enable health promotion. Existing facilities will not be affected, they will be supplemented in a network-like way, and, of course, priorities will also be developed. The implementation was entrusted with the Health Austria Fund, which has already been active in the field of health promotion. In the Committee's opinion, private law organisations could also take on such or similar tasks. But this is contrary to international experience. International experience, ladies and gentlemen, has also shown that well-planned, targeted programmes have long-term effectiveness. Campaigns can achieve behavioural changes – for example, healthy nutrition by changing eating habits, combined with a exercise program. For example, every day walking of 3.2 kilometres, according to a U.S. university study, simply prolongs life, because it is less often heart disease, strokes, cancer due to regular movement. As a non-smokers, I find it particularly bad that more and more young people and more women are smoking. I am glad that a non-smokers campaign has already been launched this year to address children between the ages of ten and fourteen. In fact, according to lung specialists, tobacco is ten thousand times more dangerous to respiratory tracts than the pollution of the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Nevertheless, we support the Austrian tobacco!]] An EU study also found that women generally take better care of their health and are therefore also getting older than men. As the health report already debated today shows, this is also true in Austria. My previous speaker spoke about the condition of the Federal Minister. It seems to be true that the condition of women is a better one, because this debate on the health report is also more women than men. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the EU, 28 percent of women smoke; It's 21 percent in Austria. Alcohol consumption: Women drink less than men – 8.5% women, 28.7% men. But also unhealthy nutrition is a problem. In the EU, every fifth woman is very overweight. These are major risk factors that lead to premature death. One speaks of premature death when a person is in front of 65. Life is dying. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see it important for the existing resources to be able to take preventive measures against stress. We know that stress causes diseases and mental problems. Stress at the workplace, caused by flexibility pressure, time pressure, power pressure, quality pressure and overload, costs a lot of physical and mental energy. The result – fatigue, fatigue, anger, bad mood – is signs of health disorders. Stress reduces performance, leads to illness, to the grip to the cigarette, to escape to alcohol, to take medication. Stress prevention is health care! Perhaps, Mrs Bundesminister, it is possible to have larger-scale studies carried out in the framework of this Health Promotion Act and to take advantage of its experience in health policy. Health promotion is an important approach for us Social Democrats. Therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, we are willing to give our consent to the Health Promotion Act. We are convinced that these funds will be used effectively.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13140	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13164	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We could not have chosen a better time to talk about health and preventive medicine than the Ashindi on Wednesday, the beginning of the 40-day fasting period. Our old progressers and all the others who observe the fasting period do this not only to repent, but also to make the body feel reviled and healthy. Thus, our old habits also have their sense of prevention and health. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome today's government template and in no way can I win the opposition's critical words – even in the least. It's a small law, but it's very easy to read. Would you please tell Mr Kier. [[Abg. Dr. Kier has that hand.]] It is easy to understand and easy to read, and because it is so small, it is all the better. The explanations are excellent because you can learn a lot about health policy during your studies. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: But we wouldn't need it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: We would get out without it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome today's legislation and the increase of these, so to speak, 100 million schilling funds. If you listened to this today, you could see that many speakers have shown individual positive actions and projects. And the doctor's chamber, the pharmacist's chamber, the health insurance companies have already tried very hard to point out with "hand at heart", with various very good measures and projects on health care and prevention. But I believe that this is not enough, and I therefore welcome the use of resources in this area. It would be good if there were to be a pooling of initiatives that could be manageable, which could be controlled. There's an old saying that says: Prevention is better than healing! I'd also say it's cheaper than healing. We, the Austrian People's Party, have always given a very high priority to preventive medicine and have repeatedly criticized that we are no longer in this area. Personally, I would like to see an opportunity and resources available for raising and working up problems with the local population – "healthy community", as these projects are called, perhaps, as well. Whoever reads newspapers – that is what we all do every day – will notice it, and it is also alarmed that in some areas suicide rates and in a particular region infant mortality are strikingly high, so that one actually has to investigate and try to remedy this. One has to see what the causes can be, and then fix them. Mrs Buder concluded by saying that women are healthier. But they don't feel that way. Mrs. Colleague! I think you're a bully. There is a booklet – "Future Woman" – in which it says that the steirers do not feel healthier. I believe that this is not only true of the bullies, but women generally do not feel healthier, but they live longer. This means that the causes of their not being good are obviously psychogenic and psychosomatic. I believe that sleep disorders, weather sensitivity, fatigue, circulatory problems, pain conditions probably have quite different causes than they actually mean. This would also be worth an investigation, or one could certainly do some things in the field of prevention, but usually only regular medications are taken. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also have liked to see the possibility that private-law institutions – we already have a control mechanism – could submit projects. That is why we in the Committee have still tried to add a committee remark. In fact, with these 100 million schillings, we are moving a little further on the right path, and I particularly welcome that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13224	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13245	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What Austrian radio has told us this early morning will now come to a decision in the late evening, namely 100 million schilling more for information and information in the field of health care. This measure will be financed by means of VAT, with the 100 million schilling being deducted from the Community tax prior to the allocation to the federal, state and local authorities, which means that municipalities and countries with an amount of 30 million schilling will participate in this measure. The aim of the initiative is to provide information on avoidable diseases, health, risk and prevention programmes, the provision of a healthy lifestyle et cetera, in order to reduce health costs and, on the other hand, to show personal responsibility for their own health. The involvement of various ministries – health, finance, family, enterprise – will enable the development and implementation of long-term programmes through the integration of various ministries – health, finance, family, enterprise –, the Association of Insurance Companies, the Chamber of Doctors and Pharmacies as well as the Landes-, Stadt- und Gemeindebund. Regional programmes, such as target group-specific measures, are intended to provide maximum surface coverage, with a major focus on scientific development and training. Various organisations and bodies have already developed offers in recent years, which must now be coordinated and developed in a meaningful manner. The federal law on public protection vaccinations, which is under negotiation, provides for the definition of vaccinations. The new vaccination concept provides for the use of a new five-fold vaccine to be made available to all Austrian children. It is easier to apply, less strains the children and is also an important development in prevention. It is gratifying that, despite fiscal consolidation, 50 million schilling can be spent on this area, which is another proof that our Federal Government is trying to improve the health system constantly. The above vaccine will be provided free of charge by the main association. The distribution will take place through the countries. This is due to two thirds by the federal government, one sixth by the countries and one sixth by the main association. Although child paralysis no longer occurs in Austria, there is still a risk of introduction, and therefore this vaccination must be countered by the necessary seriousness. The main objective of a responsible health policy must be to prevent diseases. Vaccines, on the one hand, and health promotion on the other, play a major role in this. That is why we will be happy to approve both of the proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13303	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13324	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Health is the highest good of a human being, they say. I allow myself to add this proverb to that saying: Health is the highest good of a human being and of course also a cost-intensive one. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The rapid development in the search for new forms of therapy – I name only cancer research as an example here; however, I could also mention many other areas – enables an ever better and more efficient treatment of people, which is also reflected in an ever-increasing life expectancy. However, as always, the health sector also applies: Where much light – we have already talked about a lot of light in the field of health policy – there are also shadows! And the shadow in this area is called cost. While our health system is one of the best and internationally not one of the most expensive, it is nevertheless important to take action in this area in the sense of a forward-looking policy, thus optimising the cost of this system and using financial resources efficiently. We can decide on such a measure today at least as a first step. The Health Promotion Act, which provides 100 million schilling in a first step for the education and information of the population in terms of health and health life, will increase in health care to the cost brake. This is because every schilling, which is put in preventive measures, comes back a hundred times. Of course, one could now raise the apparent objection that it is peculiar to call 100 million schilling extra costs savings. However, I only make this objection applicable if you think in three or four years' time periods, because health promotion is mainly based on changing people's attitudes to certain habits and also on changing attitudes to your own body. This change cannot take place from today to tomorrow. You can't reprogram people as they do on computers in general. The changes to be made here and which will begin with this Health Promotion Act have a longer-term dimension; therefore, one can and must also expect this longer-term dimension. This result is certainly clearly in favour of people and health and clearly at the expense of costs in this area. In this sense I wish you, Mrs Minister, and the ladies and gentlemen of the Healthy Austria Fund good luck and good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13372	There is still a speech by Mrs Konrad. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13394	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although Austria is in good shape in terms of health care in the international comparison, we all agree, as it seems, that additional resources for health promotion are good and positive. They are also necessary. The above 100 million schillings per year will not be substitutes for existing funds and measures, nor will alibi be used for savings at other levels; this is guaranteed by the law. It is certainly useful to coordinate existing measures and to reproduce individual actions and ideas as "Best Practice". The health report that we have discussed today has also shown that action in particular is necessary within the meaning of this law: on the one hand, measures in a holistic sense and in all stages of life and on the other, research into and consideration of the diverse, diverse factors affecting health. The law on which we are going to vote is intended to enable long-term planning and thus ensure sustainability. This law will also allow for consideration to be given to aspects and activities which have not yet been taken into account, but which are important. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we can expect suggestions and proposals from the activities set out as a result of this law, which go far beyond health policy, so that there is a sort of socio-political impulse that, for example, will go far into labour market policy. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the Group of the Socialists will be very enthusiastic about this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13427	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report has not been desired. I now ask the honourable Members to take up the seats and to follow the voting process with due attention. [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Fearing" is relative!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're ready!]] I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1043 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft law has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now vote on it at third reading. I would also ask for a sign of approval here. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 947 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now vote on it at third reading. I would also ask for a sign of approval here. – That too is the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on protection vaccinations. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 338/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingerrund Comrades on special integration aid/amending the labour market service law (919 of the Supplements) 8. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 394/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingenrund Comrades on new instruments of active labour market policy (920 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Works Aid Act (921 of the Supplements) 10. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the abolition of the provisions on social security of so-called free service contracts (922 of the Supplements) 11. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 434/A by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (923 of the Supplements) 12. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 479/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingenrund Comrades on pension reform (924 of the supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 540/A by Dr Alois Pumbergerund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (925 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 552/A by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act 1955 (926 of the Supplements) 15. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 594/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellingerround Co-operatives concerning the consideration of the resolution of the Federal Chamber of Labour of 22 December 1989 (OJ C 324, 21.12.1989; Bull. September 1997 in the pension reform (927 of the supplements) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 595/A (E) by Mr Karl Ollingerrund Comrades on the consideration of the White Paper of the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs of September 1997 on pension reform (928 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13586	We now proceed to points 7 to 16 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has been omitted from all these points. We are therefore immediately beginning the debate. I call Mr Gaugg, the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13616	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is a large number of applications which are being dealt with here today and all of them have a common destiny, since they have already been submitted relatively long ago. Some are no longer up-to-date in certain areas, but there is a substantial difference: You, Mrs Bundesminister, are discussing documents that are not available. There is a national action plan for employment which aims to increase the number of people employed by the year 2002. But what does your work really look like? – We have known your promises for years. They always talk about the big throw, about major reforms, but introduce a health certificate fee of 50 S. They are talking about major pension reforms, four, five and six novels must be decided to make them legally clear at all. What the decision-makers in the Constitutional Court hold of your family policy has been communicated to you in writing. A quarter of a million children in Austria – every fifth child – are about 270 000 children living in poverty. This is your social policy! This is the social policy of the great coalition! [[Federal Minister Hostasch talks with MEPs Verzetnich and Ing. Maderthaner.]] [[Abg. Madl: She doesn't listen at all!]] That's nothing new. She can read it in the minutes. You don't hear what the opposition says anyway. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 270 000 children live in poverty. This is your social policy. A quarter of a million mothers receive income of 6 500 s per month. This is your social policy. They pay hunger wages. A third of women's employees and around 40 percent of the women's workmen have to work with less than 6 200 s per month. This is your social policy. At the same time, however, all the other four parties represented here in Parliament are in the process of not removing, but expanding, political privileges. That is why, for a number of times, we are bringing forward a motion for a resolution which includes the question of policy-making. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I know you hate to hear this, Mr President, but as the bad guy thinks he is. [[Abg. Sword: As the slug thinks, so he spells out!]] Now I'll tell you something. There's a finance minister named Edlinger. Do you know what this one is for me? – Mr. Frühbauer of Vienna. In tomorrow's edition of the "Kronen-Zeitung" Edlinger notes "Funfalls in VAT in billions". – Do you know what he's leading this back to? – "Edlinger suspects tax evasion and fraud." – So, Minister of Finance, I would like to inform you about who is now cheating and who is withdrawing taxes. The fact is that many overdue tax billions are not being introduced accordingly. It is constantly talking about the relief of the factor work. The fact that Mr Koppler smiles satisfied is clear because your job is secure, is it? [[Abg. Koppler: You're talking such a stupid thing together!]] The relief of the labour factor was at the time discussed in the field of energy taxation. The energy tax was the part where they said: When you introduce ecology taxes, the labour force is relieved. And what happened? [[Abg. Swimmling: Your own people don't listen!]] Give me a rest! Learn discipline once! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: How do you spell that? How do you spell "disziplin"?]] You probably believe because you wear a red tie that you're a bad climate copy. Or what else are you? – This is really adventurous! You've got a hearing! [[Call at the SPÖ: If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones!]] They complain that the reduction of administrative costs will not be carried out. They complain of the obstacles on their way to independence. Now I'm just wondering: SPÖ and ÖVP have been a coalition for 12 years and are unable to resolve these abuses. Now I'm wondering, Have you slept for the past 12 years – or what has happened? – You promise something you won’t keep again. You promised the Austrians more employment when they joined the EU, and you now promise another 100 000 jobs. I can imagine that. [[Abg. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come]] There are, of course, the famous "Mc jobs" in there. The job losses in the nationalized industry, the OMV and other businesses, the banks, insurances and so on do not touch you. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Off is’!]] I don't know what's so funny about you. – Do you know where you should appear? – In Villacher Fasching and not here in Parliament! Perhaps you will take up the Villacher Fasching, Mr Cot, because it is unacceptable what you are doing here. [[Abg. Copper: Lead!]] I know that it is annoying for you to hear that there are 15 500 young and 43 000 adult long-term unemployed. And there are 44 137 unemployed who are over 50 years old. You don't care. That stimulates cheerfulness in the ranks of the SPÖ. I can already imagine that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Headmaster.]] However, I say to you: We don't take all these promises from you anymore. Now, in this alleged action paper, which, although the newspapers, do not have the mandates, you come to the point that there is something "sex-neutral night work". - Well, interesting! This is a long-standing call from the liberals, especially from Mr Haller, who, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in this House, has not found a majority. This claim is supposed to be read in any paper at once. We MEPs do not have this paper. We don't get it. We can't have it. The policy you pursue is a policy of ruin. We will measure you by your actions, but these actions will certainly not follow, your promises will remain as always sound and smoke.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13816	Mr Gaugg has tabled a motion for a resolution which is supported in accordance with the rules of procedure and which is included in the negotiations. Mrs Reitsamer has now been mentioned. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13841	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So, of course, you can also have more than 5 minutes of speaking time. It was a real vegetable all that Mr Gaugg gave of himself here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A pot!]] In the country one would say: This is temple hops. I would have imagined that ten items on the agenda were given enough substance in a discussion, but obviously this is not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Temple hopping is something nice! The speech was nothing!]] All right, Mr Klubobmann, let's stop that! We're dealing with a novum today. Normally, the government template and similar requests that do not agree are discussed. Today, there is a whole package, a real bundle of such requests, all of which have not found a majority in the Committee, but not because we reject them in principle, but because at that time, on 4. In November 1997, when they were last discussed in the Committee, the debate on pension reform was at the height of the debate and now many things have been done, partly completed or better done. I would now like to discuss the various requests a little more closely: The Green Group's request for special integration aid under the AMS Act is outdated. § 34a of the cited law now provides that not only emergency workers but also unemployed persons are included. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: What's that about?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What's that about? Not to us! That's not up to us!]] I didn't say that either. The proposal has been discussed in the Committee. I have addressed it very precisely. I have to deal with my speaking time sparingly. The application of the Greens concerning new instruments of active labour market policy was regulated by Sections 11 to 14 of the ASTRÄG, which are educational career, solidarity premium model, exemption against the loss of pay, better access to the partial pension, to the sliding board, and more. The claims of the Freeman’s application concerning the amendment of the Works Aid Act were partially fulfilled: Increase from 250 S to 300 S, required 400 S. It is also successful to take over the operating aid to health insurance after the BSVG or after the GSVG. I know that this is not enough for you, but in politics you have to reach a consensus. Then the request of the Liberal Forum on Free Service Contracts. I do not want to say anything more about this, because this request has been devoted to a two-and-a-half-hour discussion in a urgent debate today. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Thank you!]] I think that's enough. Another request from the Liberal Forum on the withdrawal of the health security fee and the health insurance contribution increase by 0.25 percent for pensioners, because – and that is the reason – the termination of social security instead of 3.6 billion schilling is only one ninth of it, that is, 400 million schilling. The fact that the social security system is now again writing black numbers is very pleasing. But I have to say the following: These are amounts that look great as an amount; but fighting a flu epidemic would cost just as much and much more. It is therefore our political responsibility to provide for the long term. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch has already said today that "winners" cannot be spoken of here, but money in the interests of the insured. I would like to say to the Greens that we have really managed to achieve a great deal of harmonisation with the 2000 pension concept. But I would like to make a specific point here: the basic guarantee of existence in old age, regardless of employment. Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group! That's not a good thing. We from the Socialist Group support the fact that it will enable people - mainly affected by this problem - to have complete insurance procedures. Two reforms have contributed a lot to this. In 1993 we decided to charge child rearing periods, as did the change that not the 15 last years, but the 15 best years, and also the fixing of the different retirement age. And this time we decided on the regulation for minor employees, the increase in the basis of the assessment of child rearing times and also the involvement of the caregivers. The first pillar – I have to tell you – would be too much to die and too little to live, and the second pillar would not be manageable for the majority of Austrians. I'll tell you one thing: People who can afford not to be employed can secure themselves. But this is a disappearing minority with us in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We say no to the request of the liberals regarding freezing of the prescription fee. The Austrians appreciate the blessings of the health system, and they can cost something. For low-earners, there is a prescription exemption anyway. It makes no sense to wait a long time for an increase and then make a greater increase again. I'd prefer to go up 1 s from year to year. On the request of the Liberal Forum on the abolition of exceptions from the social security scheme for adult education institutions, however, it is obsolete because these exceptions fall by 1. ==References== There is a special provision in the context of a Regulation § 49 para. 3 ASVG based on tax law. But this not only concerns the wifi and the BFI, it also affects the national universities in most of the federal states. That's just on the verge of it. On the request of the Greens concerning the Federal contribution to pensions: A great deal has been done in the direction of harmonisation. The federal contributions are differently high, but certainly not too low. With the increase in the level of self-financing of farmers and self-employed, and also with individual measures from the civil servants package, a step has been taken in this direction again. So this request is also complete. As far as the Greens' request for independent pension schemes is concerned, I refer to the request for a comprehensive pension reform. You see, therefore, that a great deal has been done in the areas raised by the requests. They have been completed in part, some have been partially completed, and some have done better than you actually have in your requests. That it will not be enough for you, that we may be able to live. It means that consensus must be maintained in politics, and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13959	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e13980	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer is partly right. It is true that most of the requests we have to deal with now from item 7 to 16 have actually fallen, as she said. They were introduced before the ASRAG came, but unfortunately they are only on the agenda today. However, this cannot be blamed on the applicants of the opposition parties. Of course, one or another of these applications is completely obsolete, because the legal system has now changed. Only: At the time when the applications were submitted, they were up-to-date. Nevertheless, the applications have been dealt with in the Committee. There was a vote on everything, then the reports were written about it, but then the plenary was no longer concerned with it so that the plenary could apparently recover in the sun of the ASRAG. Now, of course, this is what we are getting, now we are standing with outdated requests, and it looks as if the opposition had made obsolete applications. This is not the case, and I even agree that some of these applications may actually have been used. Mr Reitsamer! There is little comfort in the fact that the request, which is to be debated as Agenda item 14, will only be realized in 1999 by the exception for those who teach at the BFI and the Wifi, including the national universities. In the meantime, you have created § 49, which gives you the opportunity to re-guarante this exception by decree of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, through a regulation that also transforms remuneration into compensation for expenses. What is to be said about this has already been said in the debate on the urgent request. This is a contradiction in itself, but if you defend privileges, you have to make it that way. On the request of Mr Oellinger, point 12 on the agenda: Mr Reitsamer! I am really sorry if you say that basic protection in old age is not possible because it is not enough for old people to get 8,000 s per month. This is the amount that the compensation pensioners now receive. Let me tell you this – Mrs Reitsamer is not in the hall now, but I hope you will do it – to the compensation pensioners that you think 8 000 S a month is a ridiculous amount! That's what they get. Therefore, the amount of money is in no way what one can criticize, but one should say that it would be good if it were at least for the old people that every person over 65 years of age has this right to life assurance. We demand this in general, but if it were at least for the old people, it would be a success. In Holland this is done, and it is very well established. Of course, this is not the only foothold on which the pension is provided. There are, of course, also opportunities for business and private use. But if you don't study these things so thoroughly or take them less seriously, you will have to make such statements. Or: our own request concerning the abolition of the health certificate fee, which is negotiated under item 11 of the agenda: It is only because of the deficient or non-deficit situation that we have not argued. We have said that here people are asked one-sided to the cash register, in an unusable form – and the pensioners are even by a contribution increase! The whole thing is so exhilarating because this is only due to the fact that you promised before the 1995 elections that you will not increase contributions. You then kept that right and bad, for which you have introduced new ones, for example the health certificate fees. That is why we believe that it is unfair, because this is a strange type of linear restraint, which can be explained by nothing, also makes many exceptions necessary and requires a great administrative effort. This does bring in money, but you could have done so much easier through a simple increase in contributions. We would certainly have spoken against this from here, but we should have admitted that it would have been the more appropriate variant compared with the introduction of health insurance fees. By the way, most of them are frozen posthorn tones. I admit that. Mrs Reitsamer said that the ASRAG had now created opportunities for the self-employed of women. I must say that she cannot possibly believe it herself, because for this she is far too much professional. It is impossible for them to believe that it will improve women's pension rights if they are to be included in the small number of employees. As a result, women are often slightly employed. You now have to pay contributions and you can also win a few years with them, and that's right. But a security in old age for someone who deserves 3 800 s and also pays contributions from it, you have to show me – unless you give it the compensation allowance pension. This, by the way, is 8 000 s, and that is exactly what is in the Oillinger proposal and what the rider has said is that it is not good. I don't understand. If it should be less than 8,000 s, it is certainly even worse for the colleague Reitsamer. So what kind of independent security is that? But the sentence that women who are not insured on their own are mainly those who can afford it is a mockery of people who strive to find a job but find none. They have to be able to afford that. They can't afford that, but they have to afford it. This must have been a misunderstanding of the colleague Reitsam. Maybe that's what she's done too quickly. For claiming that the people of old are not insured because they can afford it is so contradictory in themselves that I cannot understand it at all, for if I can afford it, I am already insured in old age. But I do not think that all the women who have also been introduced in the context of women's desire have therefore demanded an independent insurance in their old age, because they are already insured and can do so anyway. So I don't know: heal the world, heal the world! A final comment on the motion for a resolution tabled today by Mr Gaugg in connection with political relations: From this point of view, I would like to correct the fact that, at no time has my club wife, Dr Schmidt, called her consent to the contract limitation law a mistake. That is the reason for the request. Since these are parliamentary materials, I wanted to deposit them here too. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She never said that! Kratky said that!]] – It may be. But I'm not even sure. But anyway: She certainly never said that. Of course, some things are always improving, but they didn't say that. The quote from the letter of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is already strange. That's where I think of the cartoon that Tohentmayr drew. This quote is probably the hemp for the fork. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14023	Mrs Gatterer has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14044	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I think it is significant that Mr Gaugg, who is not here at the moment, has not responded to the many reports and requests, because then he should have admitted that the government has actually done a lot lately. The colleague, Mr Reitsamer, has already been very detailed about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In reality, these applications, which were not found in the Committee's majority, have been incorporated in pension reform and in many other laws already adopted. That is why, in my view, the list of these applications is essentially a government activity report. We have already talked a lot about social legislation, about health policy. We know that it is necessary to become more active here. In particular, with the employment offensive presented in the current hour, it will be possible to secure this measure. But most of all, the requests made by Mr Öllinger have been made very well with the pension reform. The pension reform shows, in spite of all the unknowings of the opposition, first results, and we are very happy that, for example, the number of applications by early pensioners has fallen. It is noted that there are first successes through the pension reform. However, I would like to say to Mr Oellinger and also to Mr Kier that there is an area which has not yet been satisfactorily resolved, including the ÖVP, that is to say, the pension protection of women, who are generally not yet good in all areas, and above all the pension protection of divorced women. The EIA is in favour of a model of care compensation for divorced women as quickly as possible. Mrs. Minister! Here we need action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to bring here a specific case of a woman who came to me personally. She is 62 years old, twice divorced, has four children and has no pension at all. I think that is something that is simply not to be represented in a modern state with such a pronounced social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also hope for the support of the Greens so that we can solve this problem as quickly as possible in this House. Mr Oellinger! You also have a general insurance obligation in your application. I was very surprised at this, especially because your group is always here for the students and says that students are disadvantaged and severely burdened. I would like to know what this would mean for the students from 20 years of age, if they fall into an insurance obligation. So I'm very surprised at these your demands. I cannot share this view because I believe that youth needs more opportunities. The demand – Mr Reitsamer has already said that – is also fulfilled after educational leave. The demand for an entry-level premium is, as it were, fulfilled in the solidarity model. So we can really say that there are very many positive approaches in this area. As far as the demand for the extension of special integration aid is concerned, I believe that this is something we should still consider. Mr Feurstein mentioned this today also in the current hour. In particular, the situation of the long-term unemployed is very worrying in terms of social policy, because it must be borne in mind that the long-term unemployed and their families are in a very bad situation. In the Social Report, we can see that 20 percent of the long-term unemployed make up 50 percent of the budget burden in the unemployment sector. That is why it is very necessary for us to rethink whether we can do something in this area. An important instrument for improving the situation is the law recently adopted, which gives the unemployed the opportunity to have a foothold in the door again to find access to the world of work. I think the government has taken a very good course with this regulation. On the proposal of Mr Haller: The increase in operating aid has been made to 300 S. We would also like it to be 400 S. But I think one must say that one is very positive, namely that valorization is planned and we do not have to fight for an increase every year. I think we women would not have felt it painful if the amount of 400 s had been achieved, but we all here in the house are realists and know that politics is the art of the possible. I believe that this increase should in principle be very positive on the part of women, and in conclusion we can say that it is all in all a positive report from the government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14123	I now give the floor to Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14145	Mr President. Mrs Minister: a nice evening for the time being! We are discussing requests that should no longer be on the agenda. Let's hold this. Let us also hold on, especially after Mr Reitsamer's speech: The government parties work mainly by leaving the opposition's applications or by writing them off. These two alternatives exist. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] This is obviously the work card which is presented here, that after two years, where these opposition requests should have been debated and dealt with for a long time, the government parties say: We've done everything! - Just, it's not that right. I do not want to take out the most difficult pieces, but one is already allowed to say to the colleague Reitsamer: I've never heard such a bizarre reason for the health certificate fee as it is today. This has been really interesting, as the colleague Reitsamer explained, why we still have this miserable health certificate fee, which should have led us to the light, highland of the chip card for a long time. Only: The chip card does not come and does not come, and the government parties, although there is a request, unfortunately cannot say: We've already done it, because she's not here yet. So we need the health certificate fee. But the colleague Reitsamer is somehow to say that only because we don't have the chip card yet, we need the health certificate fee. That is why she said today – and this is particularly interesting – that we need it, because there may be a flu epidemic, and then the entire "stock" that the health insurances have accumulated is gone again. A flu epidemic brings our health insurance business out of lot! That's why we need a health certificate fee – as a flu agent. Ladies and gentlemen! One can, of course, discuss this in this way, but I do not think it appropriate. I would have liked to see a little reflection on this request, for example, concerning the special integration aid which we put forward at the time. For it was at least the first time that the legislator adopted an instrument of active labour market policy itself. Mrs. Minister! But I think that this instrument has not become so successful as to be able to boast of it today and here. Rather, it would be time to think about what this action – which now has a name, it is called "come back", what effects it has had, and whether it really was a positive action. If, for example, I look at how the AMS must balance Vienna – for the rest of this year, the action "come back" is out, because the funds have already been used up, because one has not thought that one has to finance for 18 months, and I assume that this is true in some other AMS sites – then this is another argument that, in future decisions on such issues, one might also have to listen to the arguments of the opposition. And not just that: In addition, the decision-making process should perhaps take some time instead of issuing a decision on Hopp-tropp, and then it should also be believed that it has achieved a particularly positive action. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think you know that the criticism we have expressed about the "come back" action – when it has not yet been said – was justified. Of course, the entrepreneurs take the unemployed who bring the most unemployment benefit "on the bubbling" into the new job. That is not to blame the entrepreneurs, but has it been the meaning of this action? - That's exactly what we criticized. This was part of our criticism, and we have tried to formulate another part in this proposal. Finally, Mrs Gatterer, and this is also addressed to Mrs Reitsamer, although Mr Kier has already taken the floor in this regard. If one says about basic insurance in old age that it would be too much to die and too little to live, then one must refer to the compensatory allowance rate. If that's all you think about it, it's a bitter pill for those affected! I can only say to Mr Gatterer's address and to her request for compensation: We support this, but only if there is a pedestal. It is precisely because of this that basic security is needed because the compensation cannot function otherwise and would end in poverty. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: For the next time, perhaps, consider not discussing requests made in this way, but rather a little more serious about the issues of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14202	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14223	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, most of today's opposition applications have been discussed in detail under the 1997 budget accompanying laws. Many individual points have also been implemented. Mr Oellinger! The coalition does not have to write down applications, nor do we have to make them. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the Greens.]] - Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Firstly, the coalition through the Social Rights Change Act has proved, as I believe, that it is able to propose creative solutions and then implement them. The results of the last few months are right. Secondly, I must say: So dramatic, exciting and burning, today's discussions can no longer be, otherwise Mr Gaugg could have made at least one specific reference or contribution from this point of view. [[Abg. Gaugg: The test time extension should be the yellow of the egg?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Gaugg! You would have had the opportunity to give a real, concrete opinion on any question. Mrs Reitsamer has already told you that, and I must confirm that. You didn't use this opportunity, so don't steal my speaking time now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As already mentioned, we have implemented a lot of points. I would just like to go a little closer on a single request. There was a lot of discussion about the introduction of the health certificate fee, and I admit: We too have preferred a different solution from the People's Party, at least as far as farm surveying is concerned. [[Abg. Gaugg: Then why do you do it?- Oh, my God!]] At the end of the day, however, the health certificate fee was so important to us that we like to carry this compromise until today. Finally, Mr Gaugg, the introduction of the health certificate fee has led to a lot of positive results. You can't argue. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] First of all, this has made a considerable amount of additional revenue profitable, and second, which is even more important, as I mean, has served this health certificate fee as a control element in that today health insurance companies can write consistently black numbers. [[Abg. Gaugg: Logic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: and Abg. ==References====External links== Gaugg) Listen!]] [[Abg. Puttinger: Black numbers!]] That was possible only because of the health certificate fee! And thirdly – and I would like to stress this here too – was the health certificate fee of that vehicle, which ultimately also ensures us the chip card. [[Abg. Gaugg: The SPÖ will move you three times over the table!]] I should like to inform you that the talks are so far off that the introduction of the chip card is at least approached by the economy. It can also be taken over part of the cost of introduction, which will result in a massive red tape reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I am on the part of Mrs Reitsamer, if she believes that today, Mr Kier, dear Liberal Forum, the suspension of the health certificate fee is neither meaningful nor intended by us. We by the government parties will definitely make our contribution to a constructive development of the social system. Although we do not depend on opposition calls, they will not, of course, reject them. [[Abg. Gaugg: Very sarcastic! But you'll get it from the voters!]] You have proved, Mr Gaugg, how "interested" you are on this issue. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14373	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14394	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's agenda gives us the opportunity to look back at certain social issues, so I will devote myself to pension reform. At the latest since the turn of the year, everyone knows that this pension reform, which has been decided by the coalition in this House, is not the yellow of the egg. At the latest since the publication of the study of the Economic and Social Council in 1991 it is known that the current statutory pension scheme and its guaranteed benefits cannot be financed in the long term. The contribution or tax increases necessary for the continuation of this system in its present form would lead to an announcement of the so-called generation contract. In other words, the generation in working life can no longer be used to allocate the funds required by the levying procedure. The extension of training periods, the strong, often involuntary use of early retirement, the increasing life expectancy of the population and the increasing number of beneficiaries, however, will by far not be enough to maintain this system in the long term. Especially at the current level of pensions, the whole can be financed. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a comprehensive, fair, socially balanced and comprehensive approach, which provides a realistic perspective for the 20-year-olds of their retirement. Ladies and gentlemen! The transition to a three-pillar model, of course, requires a certain courage. You know that we liberals have always preferred a three-pillar model, because a pension system based on a payment procedure alone will no longer be able to provide current benefits without exorbitantly high contributions being removed. Pension contributions should be increased, and the retirement age should also be shifted upwards. Mr Rürup's study, commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has some in this direction, for example: uniform increase contributions per insurance year, the refund and surcharge rate according to the mathematical principles, a statutory retirement age as a reference for a bonus malus system, an extension of the insurance group to all employees, fix the federal contribution and dynamisation according to a fixed formula, and the incentives to develop a second and third pillar of pension provision. The demographic correction factors for pension adjustment formulas are simply not given by the pension reform which has been decided here. The Federal Chamber of Labour also pointed out, with a view to this pension reform, that significant reductions in benefits must take place. It criticised these reductions in benefits, as well as the fact that this Act on Employment and Social Rights introduced a new pension reform in 1997 with serious cuts in the ASVG's right to benefit without having a comprehensive concept for the long-term protection of pensions. I have been in favour of setting the basis for pensions on three different pillars for many years. The first pillar is to redesign the existing levying procedure into a basic pension for all employees. This basic pension is intended to provide basic insurance for old age and must ensure that there is a possible existence in pension even in lower income groups. It must be sufficient for a lifestyle. The second pillar is formed by a compulsory occupational pension scheme in the form of pension funds to which employers and employees contribute. – Mr Drinkl! You said earlier that the coalition did not need to write down the opposition's requests, but it is a fact that we have for a long time forced this second pillar. I have already assumed in 1991 that the discharge should be reformed and transferred to occupational pension provision. I know, however, that the chairman of your ÖAAB, Mr Fassleven, is moving through the country and now, at the same time, is pushing for occupational pension provision. In principle, this is nothing but our idea. If you want to, you can agree to our request! As the third pillar of pension provision, self-sufficiency must be forced. To this end, it is necessary to reduce the tax burden on life insurance premiums. For this reason, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The senseless doctrine of a system that cannot be financed must be terminated as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14510	Mr Dolinschek! The motion for a resolution you have just tabled has not been submitted to the Bureau. I therefore cannot see whether it has been properly introduced. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We gave him!]] - No, he's not there. I'm just holding this. If you put it down to me, I can see if it bears the sufficient number of signatures. The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. Speaking time also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14585	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The rejection of all the opposition parties' requests by the coalition in the Social Committee actually showed the true face of this federal government. This face is unsocial, Mrs Federal Minister, when you consider how the applications have been dealt with and how they have been rejected. This face, however, is particularly marked by the inconsistency with the concerns of the workers and the pensioners, in short, it is a face in which it is not quite good for me as an employee, and it ensnares me – unlike you, Mr. Drinkl. They come from the economic sector and carry out their activities there, but they are not socially fair. [[Abg. Puttinger: You don't work in the economy?- Oh, my God!]] One has to imagine the superiority of this federal government, this one-man government, with which it simply rejects all the requests of the opposition, not only those of the liberals – that is, we are actually used to it – but all. That really can't be in our sense. If one has followed today's current hour and the statement of the coalition on the Federal Government's employment programme, one could find: That was a list in words, but there are no acts that follow! Or: If I am thinking of the fact that the social partners have delivered themselves on this issue, I must say that the immediate proposals for solutions have not been presented. Mr Vergebnitsch has also spoken, among other things. But he has just made government policy again and not directly the politics of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. [[Abg. - Listen, listen!]] As an example, I would just like to read to you a sentence from the resolution adopted by the Federal Board of Directors of the ÖGB on 19 July. In November 1997, I quote: "Pensions significantly further developed and social hardships consistently degenerate." – Dear colleague! I think I'm really on another steamer. Of course, the government steamer is heading in a different direction. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ-ÖVP Unity Party! I would like to point out to you that you are not really concerned about the solutions to the problem in this country that should be sought in the interests of people, but about the arrogant exercise of power and a strong policy of power on the back of the people and the insured! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that's not how it will go. For example, the abolition of the sickly health certificate fee is actually carried only by the liberals. Above all, we liberals demand it again and again. In this context, I must say: The revenue from this health certificate fee is in no way proportional to the administrative burden in the establishments and to the burden on the insured. Mr. Drinkl! I can tell you an example from the practice from which I come because I am myself employed in a farm. Do you really think that this administrative burden is worth it? I have to tell you honestly: Until the individual worker gets his health certificate, the 50 s have been consumed for a long time, from the time alone! And to do this, we have to ask how the administration works in the health insurance companies themselves and what it costs. This administrative burden is three times higher than the fee that is lifted! This is my observation, and this can be proved. This health certificate fee is finally abolished, but the ÖVP does not have the courage to do so. But she has a man in Tyrol, Mr Dinkhauser, who would have the courage to say to the ÖVP and the ÖAAB that this health certificate has long been abolished. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This health certificate fee is the wrong way, Mr. Drinkl. That is why we, the Freedom Party and the Free Workers, are very disappointed that this request by the Liberal Forum, which was also supported by us, has not been accepted. It is in this way that the issue of increasing the contribution rate for pensioners in health insurance continues. Mrs. Minister! I mean, that's been changed a long time. It is wrong to continue along this path. We liberals have deposited our ideas, because we cannot take into account the ideas of this Federal Government. I hope it will come to the conclusion that the three-pillar model of freedom proposals will be adopted by the government coalition and, hopefully, it will not take too long for us to reform these shreds which we have in the social legislation today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14676	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14698	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The debate on these ten requests from the opposition to social legislation has already been a bit flattered, but I would like to stress once again that these ten opposition requests can in no way be considered to be fulfilled, yes, even partly with regard to the claims contained therein in the Social Rights Change Act, a deterioration occurred, for example in the women's pensions – the application for oillingers – and in the working contract regulations – Kier. A small exception is Amendment 416/A, which we have repeatedly introduced in similar form in recent years. He is concerned with operating aid, the so-called weekly allowance for farmers, which, I would like to stress once again, has not been increased since 1982, in contrast to part-time aid or pension funds. For 16 years the ÖVP has slept in this context! In these 16 years, however, wage costs – for example, those of agricultural workers – have doubled. It has also been increased by half – although not in recent years, so in total – by half. Nothing happened only in the weekly allowance for the farmers. And if one could read in the print media these days that there will be this increase to 300 s right now, then the reason for this is certainly the treatment here in the House. Mrs Reitsamer! We cannot blame the opposition for the repeated delay in the free movement of applications or for the opposition's requests and for the delay in the debate. And if the government parties – especially the EIAs, for agriculture is an EIA domain – go home to that they would have done a big deal because they could finally drop down to carry out an increase of 50 S, which corresponds to an increase of only 20 percent – well noticed in 16 years! – and also a valorization, as we liberals have always demanded, I must stress one thing: This does not in any way correspond to a purchasing power compensation, for example, for the purchase of labour in agriculture, but this money would be intended to do so. We have heard that there was a 100 percent increase in costs, but now there is only 20 percent increase. I really don't think it's really funny, but rather sad and alarming that a party that has so attached agriculture to its flags has spent 16 years for it – and this, although we have repeatedly pointed out it. And that you now give the farmers this "sugarl" also has a reason. This small improvement is hand-in-hand, which requires farmers to swallow the "screw" of the deterioration in the area of agricultural social security, the abolition of subsidiarity. So on the one hand there is a small sugar and on the other hand there is serious deterioration. I really don't think that's funny, as I said. But since the carnival is still in the bones everywhere – at least for me – I would like to tell you one more thing. In the Kufstein district, there has been a carnival newspaper for many years as a supplement to a weekly newspaper in the district. She's called "Zwidavurz'n". Kathi knows that. This "Zwidavurz'n" is designed by a very capable, humorous journalist who does this in hard work, who collects the contributions all year round and then writes this article with a lot of sense for political backgrounds. Unfortunately, you can't see this so far, but on page 8 there is a picture of the woman Horngacher and of me with the headline: [[the speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] "Knoller and anger-gacher at the karenz money disunite" – meaning, of course, the weekly money – and in the text it reads: "No right base of conversation" according to this picture we both found at an event, and the Kathi Horngacher is subject to the following statement: "Well, what the Edith oiwei saves for in Bledzinn' – that's why the Uawaschl goes up there. Iatz's again a karenz money for the Bäurinna opisetz'n! So a smart – I get yes good koa child semena!" – With "i" the Kathi Horngacher is meant. As funny as the whole sounds, it has a serious background for the ÖVP. That's how I see it. For me, however, it is a satisfaction that at least some of the journalists are able to recognize political backgrounds.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14752	The next speaker is Mr Meisinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14773	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I really want to call this block of social applications, which has already been given a number of opinions today, cold coffee, because if applications stay in this House for more than a year and wait for completion, that really makes fun of every description. In such a fast time, in which social legislation is often updated twice in a year, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to advise you to at least look at the opposition party's requests so that they can come to the agenda in good time and make a contribution to a reasonable solution. There would be more rapid treatment and an unnecessarily granting of the authorship of the opposition than party-political tactics. This is a minor achievement of this House, which has only been exceeded by Mr Koppler and the Committee on Industry, which during a period of time has produced only a constituent meeting and an allocation meeting. I must say that if such minor benefits are to be found in this House, we must not be surprised if the people really think about the expediency of this institution. At the beginning of the discussion, the general social security requirement was called for, but it is true that a derogation for adult education gives a bad light to a well-functioning continuing training organisation, namely when it is possible to focus on sub-organisations of compulsory contributions chambers, such as the WIFI of the Chamber of Commerce or the BFI of the Chamber of Workers. I call it unolidarian to press ahead with social security contributions in this area, where on the one hand – let's say it quite openly! – the bad socialists deserve their bread and on the other hand, of course, the waxy blacks do the proporz enough. I call it discrimination against competition and distortion of competition in completion. For example, the BFI already offers competition courses which have so far been successful in the labour market service. Another request is for debate, namely a request from the Greens for active labour market policy. This proposal has already been accepted, but I believe that the method of creating long-term unemployed and job rotation for long-term jobs by additional leave, education leave and job rotation is perhaps common to the public sector, but not to the private sector, to the production sector, where the training periods are still much longer, and where the job rotation model in Denmark has been completed with unsatisfying success. If Mr Gatterer gives the best that the government has done a lot in the social field, I must correct her: This government has done a lot with the tax packages, with the burden on the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14828	Mr Pumberger is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14849	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to my request 540/A concerning prescription fees. It has already been spoken about the health certificate tax and how unwise it is, how little it is to bring in. We all know that more administrative costs are being incurred than real profit is seen under the line. Mr Feurstein nods, but I do not believe this because he was one of the driving forces for the introduction of the health certificate tax. The then Minister of Social Affairs, Hums, strongly resisted. He wanted an increase in health insurance contributions, which, of course, is not the ideal way. One should have saved much better once in the social security itself, in the administration and in the functionaries before extra burdening the patients. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My request relates to the rise in the prescription fee in 1996 from 35 to 42 p. In my request in a compilation, I have broken down the average annual increase in the last 14 years with the percentage indication, and you can see from this that the average increase in the recipe fee per year was 4.87 percent. Then came this so-called mogel package, and it has been said that health costs explode, that they account for 9.7% of GDP, that the cash registers have enormous deficits. They said that 3,6 billion schilling deficits had them; in reality, it was only 400 million schillings, and last year alone the Upper Austrian County Hospital alone had 500 million schillings surplus. Therefore, it is time to freeze the recipe fee for so long after this 20 percent increase in 1996 – earlier, as has been said, on average, only 4.87 percent – until the 20 percent increase is assumed. That means, for about four years, you could freeze the recipe fee and leave it with the currently 43 S. That would not be too much to demand, because the health insurance company still has a profit, because it is due to the 20 percent increase since 1. January 1997 almost gets a non-sensory credit from the patients. Therefore, I would ask you, the request that does not require more than the health insurance fund, which is currently making great profits, to bring about a further annual increase in the prescription fee – so it should not make an annual increase at first, but only once again from 2001 – to give your consent. This is a very modest requirement, which is in the sense of the families, because especially children-rich families are very burdened by the recipe fee. In particular, I call on the ÖVP family party not only to preach empty words here, but also to actually put action and to decide on a family-friendly freezing of the recipe fee until 2001. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e14889	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report will not be desired. We are now entering the voting process, and I ask you to take the places. First of all, I would like to make the following clarification: Mr Dolinschek, in the course of his debate, has read a motion for a resolution which was not passed on to the Bureau during the debate. According to § 55 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure must deal with and vote on motions for resolutions only if they have been handed over to the President and have been read by one of the Members who has been signed. There is therefore no substantial requirement under the Rules of Procedure, so that this motion for a resolution does not come to the vote. After this clarification, we shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 919 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 920 of the supplements. Whoever gives the consent, may declare this by a sign. – This report is also adopted by a majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 921 of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 922 report of the supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 923 supplementary report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 924 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. – This report is also adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Haider and others on the abolition of political privileges. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. [[Call: The Haider isn't there! Where is he?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Haider isn't here!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haider and Stadler are not present!]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 925 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 926 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This report has been adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 927 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, I ask for a corresponding sign. . This report is largely taken note of. Majority adoption. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 928 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – The attention of this report takes place in a majority way. Adopted by a majority. 17. Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family (III-91 of Supplements) on environmental promotions of the Federal Government in 1996 and the financial perspective on the burden on the Federal Government arising from the implementation of the Environmental Promotion Act (1076 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15029	Now we come to the 17th. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. We are starting the debate by Mr Magistrate. Sweitzer as the first speaker to give the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This environmental promotion report is quite positive in some respects, and I am convinced that the government parties will then make this very detailed. Federal Minister! I also do not want to take advantage of some of the points that we are waiting for, for example, the advocating of local credit for a little longer, which was certainly a very, very positive step in terms of environmental promotion. I remember the shoe box accounting among your predecessors Flemming and "Fehlgriff Zankl", which at that time brought a terrible chaos. As a Styrian countryman, it was your duty to eliminate this chaos, which was quite successful, although it is to be complained that in promoting it is often felt that not necessarily the best but the greatest objects are being promoted. In my own federal state, for example, this impression emerges from the Donnerskirchen project. This small project is obviously not assessed as it should be assessed. A large-scale facility is given priority, and so is the case in Oberschützen and Willersdorf. After all, total investment of 16.3 million schillings was triggered with 5.8 billion schillings. This has had a positive effect on the construction industry in times when there is a strong demand for jobs. This investment has also brought demonstrable success in water protection. Federal Minister! Another positive point is the promotion of renewable energy sources – a promotion that you have created together with your colleague Molterer. Nevertheless, there is also reason for criticism, namely for massive criticism of old load renovation. As you know, there is still a huge gap between the target and the actual rise. In fact, the gradual increase in contributions has not yielded anything. Although those who pay their taxes honestly have to pay more and more, they still fail to control the tax evasion that exists in this area in a large way. Federal Minister! This is the real cause of the huge hole and of the great deficit in the recovery of old loads. Directly with this insufficient collection of the rehabilitation contributions, the level of detection of suspicious areas should also be related. It is obvious that not all the suspicions that exist in Austria are to be taken officially, because one probably does not really want to have an overall overview, because the funding that would then be necessary for the renovation would probably exceed any extent that can only be imagined. Of about 80 000 suspect areas, Mr. Federal Minister, exactly 144 are currently registered and only eleven are renovated! A recent study by the Chamber of Labour, entitled "Alt-Laden Rehabilitation in Austria", shows that there are huge regulatory and execution problems in the field of old-age rehabilitation, that it is easy for the causers to escape responsibility and that the public hand is not able to raise even close to the means necessary in order to be able to effectively repair. After all, 70 percent of these nearly 80,000 old loads are at risk of drinking water reservoirs. That is why, Minister of State, we should not take this issue lightly. In addition, it would be necessary for us to apply the 'polluter pays' principle much more strongly than before, in order to make it possible to finance it. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, we are making a request in this context, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15134	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer is supported in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15159	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present report by the Federal Environment Minister on environmental promotion in 1996 clearly confirms that the Environmental Promotion Act has proved to be a great success for Austrian environmental policy and has made significant improvements in the Austrian environment. It was possible to ensure the necessary promotions. The figures in the area of urban water management alone show the enormous success of environmental promotions for communities, for the economy and for domestic jobs. In 1996, the Minister of the Environment for 1 416 environmental projects distributed funding of 5.8 billion schillings, causing a total investment of 16.3 billion schillings, which in turn resulted in an employment impact in the order of 21,000 jobs. In 1997, with a funding volume of 7.4 billion Schilling, an investment volume of 19.5 billion Schilling was already achieved and an employment effect of over 25 000 jobs. This above average funding was made possible by an additional special tranche of one billion schilling for 1996 and 1997. The continuation of the success story is also expected for 1998. A special tranche of an additional billion schilling is planned for water management projects. This will enable the successful employment offensive to continue in recent years, and from year to year more applications for environmental investment can be decided positively and supported at even shorter intervals. This development is an overwhelming success and shows the great importance of environmental promotion. In particular for the municipalities, which are the largest contractors in the water industry, the promotions have proved to be an engine for investment in the domestic economy and for employment. Similar positive effects have also been achieved in the field of old load recovery. In 1996, a drop in the number of landfills was recorded by 110 000 tonnes compared with 1993. This decrease is due to the success of the separate collection of wastes and compostable wastes. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What does this have to do with old load recovery?- Oh, my God!]] In addition, Mr President, the rehabilitation of old loads will take place in the future in accordance with an accelerated procedure. Federal Minister Bartenstein is currently preparing a corresponding novel, which will be sent for review this year. Your motion for a resolution has therefore failed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim of this amendment is to replace the current fragmented legal situation in rehabilitation procedures by a single system of procedures. Compared with the last amendment of the 1996 Old Load Rehabilitation Act, the 'polluter pays' principle will be taken into account even more clearly than before. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you at this point very much for the forward-looking and wise decisions of recent years that have led Austria to do not have to hide internationally in the field of environmental policy. For example, your presentation in Kyoto has aroused great praise worldwide and strengthened our international reputation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are therefore not only an environmental model country in the EU comparison, but are also seen internationally as a pioneer in environmental matters. And within the European Union, it was only recently decided in Brussels that the EU would easily adapt to the strict Austrian standards in terms of sulphur content in fuel oil. The same applies to the benzene content in petrol. In this context, there is already a proposal for a directive by the European Commission which provides for an adjustment to the Austrian limit value. The OECD has also given us a very good witness in its country report on environmental policy. Thus, Austria's environmental policy has been very successful since the late 1970s. Domestic environmental expenditure is one of the highest in the OECD. For example, Austria is leading Europe-wide in reducing sulphur oxide emissions. According to the Environmental Control Report, the emissions of most other air pollutants have also been substantially reduced. The highest is the decrease in nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and carbon dioxide. We have a special pioneering role in the field of water protection and air conservation. The restoration of our lakes began in the 1970s was highlighted. The municipal and industrial wastewater systems are very efficient. 75 percent of households are connected to a biological sewage treatment plant. We have also succeeded in decoupling the growth of gross domestic product from the use of energy relatively early. This has made an important step in environmental policy. In Austria, Austria is one third lower than the OECD average, as measured by gross domestic product. More than a quarter of primary energy is already provided from renewable energy sources. Federal Minister! In this context, I would urge you to continue to drive forward the already positive developments towards the promotion of renewable energy sources. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on environmental promotion abroad. In this area too, there is a clear improvement in efficiency in promoting projects to reduce emissions. In general, however, it should be noted that there are still potentials for the discharge of the Austrian environmental situation, particularly in the border area. It is absolutely essential that we continue to help our neighbours in the North and East, and in some cases there will still be dangerous emissions which are threatened by the supply of our border areas. For example, the Federal Environment Agency shows that sulphur dioxide is imported into Austria at 95 percent. However, our own homemade emissions were drastically reduced last year. Therefore, first of all, in Brussels, we should work to ensure that the environmental laws are more adapted to Austrian standards across Europe, and secondly, we should act on our northern and eastern neighbours to reduce pollution pollution from these countries, but we should not constantly cry out in our own country for further strengthening our limit values and our environmental standards. Our objective should be a common, efficient European environmental policy. In this sense, I would like to thank the Minister of the Environment for this report and the excellent achievements of his department. My group welcomes this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15212	Now, Mr. Ing. Reichhold. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15234	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to join with my previous colleague, Mr Schweitzer, who criticised the fact that the contributions to the old loads do not cover the whole range and are being removed very well. This is easy to understand in the example of the dump of Frohnleiten. The landfill operators are trying to escape the full delivery of the old load recovery contributions there with some tricks. This, of course, leads to a distortion of competition and that those landfills that apply these tricks can be more cost-effectively deposited, and this also means that a "waste tourism" takes place throughout Austria to these more cost-effective landfills. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to make every effort to eliminate this distortion of competition, and to work hard on the part of your place of business to ensure that these tricks are no longer possible in the future. Secondly, I would like to mention a special Carinthian situation. There is the possibility of exemption from contributions in the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, as you know, when an old load itself is rehabilitated and it is proved to be in a proper landfill and housed there. However, this exemption is only possible if this old load is also included as an old load and is included in the Atlas. This causes a relatively long advance and also high costs, so many municipalities and local authorities are reluctant to take on this lengthy process. In Carinthia, therefore, practice has prevailed that many small landfills, which have a high potential from their environmental hazards, are being renovated unbureaucratically and quickly, without the aid of the federal government. This leads to the fact that the savings made in advance due to the non-inclusion in the old load catalogue make it possible to release money with which the renovation itself can be carried out. The only problem here is that this form of rehabilitation is not exempt from the obligation to contribute. Federal Minister! If it is because of the rapid renovation of the small old loads, I would ask you to amend this law in such a way that there is an incentive for the communities to act quickly and unbureaucratically in this regard too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15276	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15297	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Ellmauer has already expressed due thanks and praise to the Ministry. I would like to give special thanks and special thanks to the local credit and to the staff who have provided an excellent report. This concerns the year 1996. But, Mr Schweitzer, as an insider in the Commissions, we also know that this has developed very positively. The year 1996 is therefore particularly interesting, because this year a lot has happened, which has had a direct and indirect impact on our subject. For example, I mention the novel from 1st century onwards. May on the Environmental Promotion Act and the Promotion Directive, which has been drawn up very quickly. Some significant studies have been initiated and carried out, and I believe that this should be strengthened, and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act has, in principle, taken effect. ==References== In January 1997, we have a lot more resources at our disposal – and this is very clear when we look at the development. However, I also share the criticism expressed and ask the Minister to make a real study of the extent to which taxes are withdrawn and to what extent there are inconsistencies as in the case of Fröhnleiten. I do not have any special pleasure with this either, because this naturally leads to the fact that we can only get rid of old loads, which we basically accept with the help of a proper combustion technology. And if we do not want to remain in 2004, we must do everything we can to prevent this price dumping of the landfills. Minister! I ask you to really take all care of it. We do not necessarily need a motion for a resolution as Mr Schweitzer has put it, but he is right in the direction of the objective. I think you are very interested in it yourself. I too wanted to deal mainly with the problem of old loads. We have difficulties – this shows the quoted workers' chamber study – in the execution practice of the authority. There are problems in this area. Minister! This would be a broad field of activity for the Federal Environment Agency, which we both so warmly loved, which could be used even more in the control, monitoring, detection and categorisation of old loads. Money is actually available enough, Mr Schweitzer. The problem is not that at present there is not enough money, but that there are problems with implementation and perhaps also with the setting of priorities. But I give you the right to do so insofar as the causers are more obliged to take. It also bothers me that, despite the obvious violations of the law, we often have to process for many years until something goes on, and ultimately the state often pays. Federal Minister! Finally, another suggestion: I have already said that I feel that increased control is essential both in the transport and in the landfills, because they are often really coming to devils’ end up filling out at dumping prices. I believe that we should really put ourselves together and work out a new, revised package of measures for the recovery of old loads in order to get the problem better and faster. And we should also consider, in particular, in the field of funding, those who are planning the construction of modern combustion plants in the near future, in line with a plan to provide promotions in order to actually pursue this path and to achieve corresponding progress with a view to the year 2004. Two points are therefore important: We must take care of the landfills, because these are the coming old loads, and we must encourage the incinerators that conform to the state of the art. I would ask you, Minister, to pay particular attention to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:40]] President Dr Heinrich Neisser: The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15358	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If an economic speaker speaks about an environmental matter, that must have particular reasons. I can offer you two reasons. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I know a reason: Barmüller is no longer there!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] - Oh, my God! Now I've been over this so well, and you're raising me up, Mrs. Colleague. You can't do that! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] However, I have two other reasons: One is that I am pleased to be able to see what can accomplish all this. Since the entire environmental funding is carried out through the municipal credit, they have been exemplary, and one can express a compliment on this: That's what it's supposed to be! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] My second reason: I think we are making a big mistake in water renovation in the urban water industry: No one wants dirty streams, dirty groundwater, dirty lakes, no question at all! However, I do not demand the maximum in this area, but the optimum! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Very good!]] I have the impression that today, in water conservation, an ecological ceiling is being sought, which often fails to cope with the financial fiduciary. Let me give you a very specific example: The sewerage and wastewater charges, especially in those small rural communities that have very long sewage lines, are now 30 S, 40 S, 50 S, and I even know a community where they lie over 50 S. This makes us in the area of hard-to-use. What's going on? – Individual houses are also connected, which are likely to be as well cleaned by a normal bioclearing plant, and it is known that 3,000 S to 4000 S per runmeter channel must be paid. At a distance of 300 meters to the nearest strand, this is about one million schilling. And if you, Mr Minister, by your regulations or by the communities require the owner to pay 50 000 s, then this house builder is already trembling about his life, so 950 000 S remains, which must be brought in over the running operating costs. This is true of course where a lot of water is consumed, i.e. mainly in commercial establishments, and I am also aware of this from the hotel industry in Carinthia, where sometimes up to 50 s per cubic metre of water and canal have to be paid. It is also in other communities in Austria, for example in Lower Austria and Upper Austria. That is why I say a clear yes to water conservation. In this area, Austria is an example in Europe. However, consideration must be given to whether the ecological maximum is also the optimum. – I think we are trying too much at the moment to achieve the maximum. We should break our heads on what we can do with the help of plant clarification plants and what we can solve peripherally in order not to really get the investment costs and the cost of using on the long run into the herb. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15432	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15454	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address three aspects of environmental promotion. One aspect is the recovery of old loads, which has already been addressed. There is certainly too little money for this, so there are serious shortcomings in this area. The dedicated projects, which were announced politically just a few decades ago, have remained unchanged. There's just too little money for that. Federal Minister! You obviously have no problem with the money in a completely different area. Mr Peter spoke of it when he said that the ecological maximum and not the ecological optimum were being sought. Mr Peter! In terms of content, you are certainly right. However, I do not know exactly what you mean by the ecological maximum: For what is happening in the water sector at present, ladies and gentlemen, is not the ecological maximum, but a means of use. The colleague of the ÖVP has formulated the following key points: This is an employment offensive, but at the expense of the environment and at the expense of the rural population, which leads to a social reform of certain areas. I'll prove it to you, too. Mr Colleppelmüller! They're shaking the head! You know very well what enormous tensions it produces in rural areas when you try – Mr Peter has described this exactly – to connect the last house and the last farm to a canal highway to bring the water down into the river as quickly as possible! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's not true! You're a dreamer!]] Mr Colleppelmüller! What do you say? Is it possible for you to have a connection for a house at Frojach-Katch to cost 800 000 s?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Where is that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Müller.]] It's not a hotel, no! This is a connection to the house of 800 000 S! In Vorderenberg the cost of this is 659,000 s, in Bruck/Weitental at 560 000 S – a connection to the house, Mr Colleppelmüller! –, in the Hall valley on 555,000 S, in Rohrmoos-Untertal on 433,000 S! Mr Colleppelmüller! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: But there are more houses there!]] Of course there are more houses there! But I have now mentioned to you the costs per door. In the case of such dimensions, the taxpayer comes into the handcush. Mr Colleppelmüller! Such projects do not reach the ecological limit, but obviously the profit maximization of certain companies! This has nothing to do with ecology, Mr Peter. Projects are being carried out on behalf of ecology, and in the Commission, in which the chairman rarely adheres to the Rules of Procedure, it is openly said that the main concern is the employment offensive. Of course, I also believe that there should also be positive employment effects in this context. Of course, the economy should also benefit from it! However, under the title "environmental promotion" it must not be neglected the environment and reached the opposite by pouring concrete into the landscape and draining the water as quickly as possible. You cannot do so in ecologically intact systems, where groundwater and surface water have a water quality between one and two, such projects that cost up to 800 000 S per household connection, and then say that this is a successful environmental promotion! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: All this is wrong!]] Mr Colleppelmüller! You know very well that these projects are an ecological and social scandal! And that is covered by the individual councils! You can check that out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You know exactly what is happening in the Commission. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Thank God something happens there!]] Mr Peter is perfectly right: Since then, the resolution has worked. That's right! The Community credit is excellent in its work in my opinion. But the municipal credit can only be as good as the corresponding projects are prepared by the individual municipalities and the state governments. And in my opinion, there is the real displeasure, with the back cover of officials doing technologically bureaucratic work. This Commission will be voting in half an hour or an hour on billions! In addition, the Federal Minister – before he makes an ÖVP Group meeting in the municipal credit – announces the great employment offensive and the great benefit for the economy. – On the other hand, the word "environment" is just an Annex matter, ladies and gentlemen! That's the real problem! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This is the untruth!]] The untruth in what context? Has You didn't have an ÖVP group meeting with officials there? Was that the untruth? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: When did I come to the meeting and announce an employment offensive?]] At one of the last meetings – after the group meeting with the ÖVP officials, who are all so "independent" – you have announced in great detail how much money has been spent on the economy. Mr. Pühringer assisted, and then Comrade Svihalek joined us. I do not want to talk about how the Rules of Procedure are being misused. There are people who want to limit the right to speak, just because it is unpleasant for them to point to social abuses in this area. Mr Colleppelmüller! You should check with your colleague Bauer, who knows the matter better! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Mr Colleppelmüller! He knows that he cannot afford this undifferentiated position, which you represent here, because the Lower Austrian country elections are taking place. You should let him tell you about what displeasure is happening there. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, the Minister for the Environment has also told us how great East Development is. . We were able to prove by means of individual projects that it was purely economic promotion. This had nothing to do with environmental promotion. But now it would be really useful to invest there. You just need to look at the relationships. In the area of urban water management – now the sparsely populated areas are covered by the tech bureaucracy, with the ecological effect very low – almost one billion flowed in 1996. In the field of international environmental promotion, it was just 94 million, and in the field of old load renovation about 144 million schilling. – These are the relationships, ladies and gentlemen. That must be pointed out. Mr Umweltminister! I am glad that there is this instrument of environmental promotion, but if you believe that you must operate purely economic promotion under the name "environment and ecology", which is also socially unbearable and leads to an ecological disaster in rural areas, then you will reap bitter resistance. They will experience from village to village that this is not accepted under the name of environmental protection. We, of the Greens, are glad that there is this environmental promotion, will not allow taxpayers to be wasted and wasted under that name. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15594	Mr Kampichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15615	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Wabl, so far I have always felt that you are really a specialist in the field of the environment. I have known that you are probably not so well informed in municipal politics. But now you have really confirmed that you are actually not lying properly on both questions. As one who is confronted with the practice in the community, which is currently engaged in canal construction and has to dispose of scattered settlements, I can assure you of the following: First of all, we do not need these scattering settlements to mobilise a certain economic volume – we only need to build a canal where it really makes sense – and second, in such scattering settlements, it is carefully examined which form is the most economical. We are committed to our citizens, and we are obliged to pay the taxpayer. Mr Wabl! That was absolutely stupid what you offered here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Are you in the Commission?]] [[Further calls to the Greens and to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I'm sitting outside the community, I'm implementing politics and I know how it works outside. [[Abg. Wabl: I also sit in the community! And I'm sitting in the Commission!]] It was really disappointing what I had to hear because it was really different. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Matthias Ellmauer has already shown the success story in the field of water management. He also pointed out the important economic factor of investment in environmental protection measures. I therefore no longer need to deal specifically with this matter, but I would just like to point out a pilot project, which is also shown in this report and which seems to me to be very interesting. At present, it is being examined whether canal buildings can be handled more quickly, efficiently and cost-effectively for citizens if private investors participate. The result of this pilot experiment is, of course, very interesting for us in the communities, because any measure that will bring a faster and more efficient solution to waste water disposal to the public can only be right for us. No municipality is committed to owning 100 percent of the wastewater treatment plants. Without a doubt, we are satisfied with a 51 percent share when private participation is made and when it is faster. Our Minister for the Environment understands a lot of the economy, he is a motorist and thinker of these models. It is true that we are looking for new ways, especially where the public is faced with high costs, which my previous speakers have already pointed out. The citizens will be happy about this and will be very happy to take note of it. My previous speakers have also made a very intense reference to the area of old-age rehabilitation. The report shows that the revision of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act significantly increases the contribution rates. The sum of 840 million schilling will be reached by the year 2000. These contributions are paid by those landfill operators who still have landfills that do not comply with the latest knowledge and provisions. Of course, they have to shift this cost factor back to the individual citizens, and we as local authorities have to raise the money in the form of higher deposit fees. We know that we need money in this area. The financial requirements in the field of old loads are accordingly high. After all, there are 97 projects available. All in all, 93 applications require an investment volume of 3.7 billion schilling. In the case of old loads, of course, it is clear – which was critically noted by my previous speakers – that our generation now has the double burden to bear, on the one hand to clean up the old loads and on the other hand to dispose of our waste at the same time. But we cannot criticize the generation before us. The danger of the substances has not been recognized. Today we recognize the danger and are invited to act. But for our highest good, for clean drinking water and for a healthy air, this investment is worth it. I would like to thank our Environment Minister for his commitment in this area, especially in the rehabilitation of the old loads. We do great things in our home country. However, we are also proud of the international appearance of our Environment Minister abroad, where he repeatedly takes the floor and the initiative. We can only regulate environmental problems internationally, as pollution unfortunately does not know God's limit. I wish him every success for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15687	The next speaker is Mr Brix. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15709	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a rather strange debate, because praise comes from everyone, because praise is also expressed and because there is a real good environmental policy here. Even Mr Schweitzer, so critical, has not saved praise here, because there is real praise. I understand the Greens, because if you read the results of the survey and the values for the Greens in recent times, you see, everywhere – which I am a little sorry – is signaling that environmental policy is no longer of the highest importance. This is where Mr Wabl has to go out of here, start to break everything up, and say, in fact, different from his way, quite simply: No, it's not supposed to be disposed of! It should rather leave everything as it is – by chance I also know Rohrmoos-Untertal, from skiing – there we do not need to make any connections, let's leave it there! But one thing – even if I don't want to put anything on him – could be that one says after that: It's just not getting rid of! – And suddenly the Greens would have another topic to address about ecology. If I have understood my colleague Peter correctly – and this is what I agree with, Mr Federal Minister – then I do not think it must be, for example, that in Vienna the main clarification system – it has already expanded an 87 percent cleaning rate – should be further developed, reinforced and its cleaning level increased to 92 or 95 percent. We are glad that you, Mr Federal Minister, and that we in this government continue to promote the extension of the sewers and the settlement water management funds, because we need this for our jobs, especially at this time. That is why this billion is so important because we can use it specifically and correctly. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me make two more comments because I have to make them quite simply. The first is that I was a little affected by the fact that, in the old burden fund, the refurbishment of the Lobau tank camp was under way with a funding of 520 million Schilling, the representative of the Liberal Forum voted against this renovation. All the others agreed. I do not understand to this day that one voted against at the time and was not in favour of the Lobau being freed from this old load. The second – and I conclude with that – is a request to the Minister. Federal Minister! Your report, which is really very good, might not be so good if the Federal Environment Agency had not provided the documents. That is why I ask you: Do not forget the Federal Environment Agency, and let us see that we will soon come to a solution there!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15754	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15775	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! That the restoration of old loads and thus the protection of our environment must be a priority objective, we are all in agreement here. It has taken a long time, and it has been an effortful way until the thought has been enforced in all, that it is not only important today to put on waste prevention and separation – that is undoubtedly important – but that it is equally important to remove contributions and to spend the proceeds from it for the renovation of so-called old loads, which come from a time when ignorance has been used to treat waste and waste differently. The Old Load Rehabilitation Act is a great legal achievement and, as the report on the environmental promotion of the Federal Government in 1996 shows, a model for other countries. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] As the report points out, by the end of 1996, a total of 136 areas where significant environmental hazards were identified were identified as old loads. For 43 areas, the necessary rehabilitation or security measures have been carried out, another 20 is being worked on, and 25 are in planning. A total of 151 applications for support were submitted from the beginning of the scheme in 1991 to the end of 1996. By the end of 1996, 47 old loads could be granted support commitments for a requested investment volume of 3,64 billion schilling. The environmentally relevant share of investment costs is 2.58 billion. A total of 2.07 billion Schillings were committed for this purpose, which corresponds to an average funding intensity of 80 percent. Of course, this is still too little for some. We can only be calmed, ladies and gentlemen, when all the old loads have been renovated. But it is not possible to straight away clean everything that has accumulated in 50, 60 years. The development that is now taking place is, however, a very positive one. The increase in the amount of old-age rehabilitation has led to a continuous upward trend. Last year's revenue was around 450 million schilling, which is 60 million more than the estimated 390 million schilling. Therefore, an increase in the contributions that some consider necessary will certainly not be necessary in the near future. The reduced rate of funding is intended to increase self-financing if the polluter is a competitive undertaking. In this case, the rate of funding is between 15 and 40 percent. In the case of old loads where no contaminants are present – such as war old loads, liquidated companies and so on – higher funding rates are possible to ensure rapid renovation. Since there is now also the possibility of granting grants not only as investment grants but also as annuities grants, which will allow the extension of the grant period to 10 years, the burden on the funding budget will be substantially reduced by these measures. Since this is the day when Frohnleiten was spoken of by the Deponie Frohnleiten, I would like to ask the Minister of State from Question Time of 22. Cite January 1998. He has decreed: "But we do not think that this is a false or a illogical interpretation of a law that is itself clear and therefore do not believe in us in the environmental sector that there would be a need for a novelle to the old-age rehabilitation law." Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say once again that I think it is very important that we have an instrument for controlling the old-age restructuring, that in Austria three-digit million amounts are spent annually to promote the renovation of such old-age loads and that we not only make an important contribution to the environment, but also ensure many hundred jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15832	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15853	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank Mr Schweitzer for the pleasures and for the necessary praise on this item on the agenda of the Austrian municipal credit, but of course also the coalition, which is not indifferent to the fact that we are allowed to discuss such a successful report. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Think of the chaos that has already existed!]] Not only because of the geographical proximity to my home country, but perhaps also as a transfer to the next item on the agenda, I would like to continue where Mr Ell Wall has interrupted out of lack of time, namely in the area of East Development. I think that Eastern development was an example. It started in 1991, and it succeeded in relieving the environment in Austria with the promotion of intangible projects first on paper, in implementing them and then in adopting concrete measures. This coordinated focus has proved to be very good. At the end of 1997, we held 110 projects implemented, 28 of them having an impact on the domestic market. For example, treatment plants in Brno or Znaim have an impact on the water situation of March and Thaya. I would also like to give an example for the installation and promotion of the construction of flue gas plants at power plants, which I believe has impressive dimensions. In Slovenia, a power plant was equipped with a smoke gas wash. Before this gas washing, sulphur dioxide emissions were 92 700 tonnes, which is one third more than is emitted throughout Austria. After the introduction of smoke gas washing, a reduction of about 9 000 tonnes has been achieved, i.e. an improvement of more than 90 percent, carried out with Austrian funding. Mr Ellmauer has also briefly cut the import of sulphur dioxide from neighbouring countries. One should not overlook: Austria receives about 20 000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide via the transmission from the Czech Republic and Poland. But also from the "better" neighbouring country Germany there are 21,000 tons of sulphur dioxide coming across the border to Austria. Therefore, not only should we focus on our neighbours in the north and the east, but we should try to implement these initiatives of the government also with our German friends. Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen in Kyoto that East funding under the Austrian Environment Fund - as already mentioned: since 1991 - has been a way that could be exemplary for the State community today and, I hope, will be exemplary. The keywords of "joint implementation" and the predictability of domestic emissions for funding abroad as well as the key word technology transfer have been implemented in Austria. I hope the world community follows us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15889	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e15918	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the environmental funding report, which is being debated today, is an impressive testimony to what is being done in Austria to promote the environment and is possible in good cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities. The fact that 1 400 projects in 1996 and in 1997 could be promoted even more than 1,500 individual projects and that in 1997 we were able to cope with and disburse a historic funding ceiling of 7.4 billion schilling on funding, or at least pledge, I think is a very impressive witness. I would also like to thank the local credit which, as our funding institution and bank, is helping our House to settle, and this is for good reason, because we have had good experience with this cooperation and with this extension in recent years. This recognition has also been evident in the debates of almost all Members who spoke. I would also like to say, however, that it has proved to be very good to deal with environmental promotion through three Commissions, which as Minister for the Environment I always follow, recommendations which, in most cases, also arise under the cooperation of and in cooperation with opposition representatives. However, I would like to say critically that, in my view, you, Mr Wabl, and your group, in recent months, have not shown constructive cooperation in the field of urban water management, to the extent that this was the case before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: That's it?]] [[Abg. Wabl: The Green Group was the only group that has always made proposals!]] On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Commission, I would like to make it quite clear that the Rules of Procedure are being violated. Mr Wabl! The coalition partners will continue to hold political discussions there. However, I am willing to assert my influence in order to allow you to make the appropriate premises available to you for a political group meeting, even if that is a self-examination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Polemik from the government bank!]] Mr Wabl! Your information is that it is several 100 000 schilling... [[Abg. Wabl: To pay the taxpayers' money, make group discussions! It's a misuse of taxpayers' money!]] Mr Wabl! The problem at the meetings of the Urban Water Management Commission has been in the last few months that you are acting there as emotionally as you are here at the speaker's desk or now in the field of intermediate calls. However, I would like to add that, in the field of environmental promotion and in particular in the field of canal construction, of course, two aspects are important to us: on the one hand, and primarily, Mr Wabl, on the environment, and on the other hand, on the question of employment policy. Let us not forget that 40 percent – almost half – of the construction volume in Austria is handled annually over more than a thousand canal construction projects throughout Austria. This obviously has its labour market relevance, and this is particularly important in times like this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore in touch with the Federal Minister for Finance again in these weeks, as I think, with promising contact that we will be able to put together a special tranche of 1 billion schilling for canal construction projects for 1998. I would add that this time too it will be possible to make use of the resources of the Water Economic Fund and not to burden the budget – at least in the short term – with such a measure. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me close with a brief comment on the issue of old load renovation. This was at the heart of several debates. As in the course of Question Time, I can tell you that there has been a marked improvement in the situation. In 1997, revenues from old-age rehabilitation contributions increased by more than 50 percent to 448 million schilling. In 1998, over 500 million and in the following years, up to 800 million schillings will be spent on old-age rehabilitation contributions. In view of the criticism of the conditions in Frohnleiten, I can indeed refer to my remarks from the last hour of question and complement them insofar as, in 1998, a provisional agreement ensures that, despite the different legal views, the old-age contributions are paid. Ladies and gentlemen! These were a few short sentences on this really remarkable funding report. There are few other areas in which the public hand can spend 7.4 billion schilling – in 1997 – and 5.7 billion schilling – in 1996 – on funding in a single year, in a way that, as I think, has been recognized by almost all the speakers in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16014	Thank you very much, Minister of State. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It is your second word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16038	Mr President. Federal Minister! I cannot leave your remarks this way, Mr Federal Minister, apart from the fact that the polemics of the government bank have a special pikanery. Do you wonder that I am going to be emotional on this question, Mr Federal Minister? Have you ever experienced in an environmental sector – Mrs Langthaler has not told me yet – that suddenly a rapid agreement in the Commission and in the bodies is being reached so that it is said that there is a need to do something quickly for the environment, quickly put a few million or half a billion into it? – There is only that in this area! And why in this area? – I tell you the following: First, in the first phase, in the densely populated area, in the urban area, it was of course right to go through the canal projects and put money in there, of course! [[Abg. Wormitzer: But the others are second-class people?]] No, Mr Wurmitzer! Do we need Greens to make it clear to you that the use of funds must be economic in order to be ecological? – That’s the problem you haven’t understood yet. This is exactly the problem we have to discuss here! You still believe that ecology and economy are a contradiction. It can't be ecological what you're doing, because it's uneconomic! A connection of 800 000 s is uneconomic and therefore, of course, unecological. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am not talking now at all about the tragedy and drama of individual farmers, who suddenly face a cost question that they can no longer cope with in existential terms, despite promotion. And then the Minister of the Environment comes and makes this speaker's chair out of polemics! The Greens have submitted constructive proposals to this Commission meeting. We have even forced that a subcommittee has been set up in which very constructive new directives have been drawn up. Mr Wurmitzer and Mr Colleague Doppelmüller, you will have to confirm this. Officially, Mr Pöltl made the request after we had first written it in writing and he saw that he was no longer around it. Then he said: I will also make a quick request. Orthogonally, he added: I would also like to have a subcommittee like this. – Of course, our request, which had already been made in writing days before, was rejected so that Mr. Landesrat Pöltl from Styria was not blamed. This is the policy being made there. Do you know why I acted emotionally there? – Therefore, a member of the municipal and urban government comes and wants to restrict and abolish the right to speak of a replacement member who is allowed to speak there in accordance with business regulations, because the Greens have not behaved there in a reasonable manner. Mr Wurmitzer, have you ever experienced this in a democratic body? – In Parliament, the replacement member has no right to speak. There it is specified in the Rules of Procedure secured. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where you agreed to the right to speak!]] Mr President, I should like to thank There is a Rules of Procedure in this Commission which neither the Chairman Svihalek nor the Chairman... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: It was a little different!]] I know we're going to hurt you, Mr. Colleppelmüller. We will, however, go further on to your nerves because we do not allow taxpayers to be used exclusively unecologically and uneconomically at billions at the expense of the rural population and taxpayers. We will not allow that, and against it we will fight, even if you are polemizing, Minister Bartenstein! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this history of environmental promotion, which the colleague of the SPÖ has presented, I think I am not mistaken, the border power plant Sostany is addressed. It was said here in plenary that this was the major environmental promotion. – I really enjoyed it as a Member of Parliament at the time. In a conversation with Slovenian government representatives, I had the opportunity to find out about this project. I thought that this was a beautiful Austrian renomming project, in which the Austrian Parliament and the Minister for the Environment and Environment have emerged and helped to clean up an ecological power plant close to the border. But then I found out the following: This renovation was announced throughout Europe and should have been awarded to a German company in itself. Do you know why the German company did not receive the award? – Because Austria could undercut this amount because Austria had the commitment from the Ministry of the Environment that the approximately 170 million schillings would be paid for planning costs from the environmental funding stop! I don't mind if a Styrian company is promoted. But the environmental measure would have been implemented anyway, but it was economic promotion! If so, then one should also call it "economic promotion" and not operate under the title "Krško closure", "environmental promotion", "east promotion in the environmental field" under the cover Ecology Economic promotion! That's unfair! That's not all right! This is charlatanry in the political field! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Mr Colleppelmüller! That wasn't the problem! The Slovenians wanted to clean this up, and the Germans would have rehabilitated it, but they were banned! I have already said here in Parliament that this was a distortion of competition. They have been involved in economic promotion in order to undermine a misguided competitor from Germany. That was the intention! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You're talking completely by the thing!]] I think that the side effect is a positive impact on the environment! Ladies and gentlemen! But if you do this under the title "Environmental Promotion", it is unreasonable and unscrupulous. That's why I'm so emotional. I already know that the Minister for the Environment has obligations. However, I do not understand the colleagues and comrades of the ÖVP: You will receive the invoices presented by your farmers if you use the money in this way. This is about billions of tax amounts. I am therefore becoming emotional because it has nothing to do with ecology at all. You can, of course, expect a constructive dialogue with the Greens and a cooperation on this issue, but not if this is ecologically and economically unwise and you only have your construction business in mind! We are going to act against that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16135	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their place. We come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III/91 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades on environmental promotions for the restoration of old loads. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 18. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (904 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Foundation and Participation in the Thayatal GmbH National Park (1074 of Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (905 of the Supplements): Agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the establishment and maintenance of a national park of Thayatal and its annex (1075 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16213	We now come to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speech is by Mr Schrefel. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is now another environmental chapter on the agenda, namely the Thayatal National Park Project. This is another milestone on the way to the conservation of natural valley and forest landscapes. This valley landscape is of high aesthetic and ecological value due to a variety of habitats and large species. Above all, the deciduous forest ecology system on the valley slopes of the National Park is unique in Europe and therefore worth protecting. On the Czech side of the Thaya Valley, a national park was built and classified as such in 1991 in an area of 6,300 hectares, and it has already been internationally recognized by the World Nature Conservation Union. On the basis of an article 15a agreement already established between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria, an 1,700-hectare national park – already the fifth in Austria – is to be established through a federal law in the Thaya Valley near Hardegg. It seems particularly important to me to be the broad acceptance of the population and the communities, especially as it is recognized that the National Park project is an image appreciation and it is a driving force for gentle tourism in the region. Apart from the central importance of the project for the wine district, further objectives are based on the operation of the National Park, namely, the promotion of cooperation with the part of the National Park located on the Czech territory and, secondly, the possibility of using this area in addition to its recreational function, which it has to use for the purposes of education, research and science. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection met on 4 July. On 1 February 1998, two government proposals were discussed. On the one hand, a federal law on the establishment and participation in the Thayatal GmbH National Park was presented, in which the federal government and the state of Lower Austria are involved to 50 percent each. On the basis of an Article 15a Treaty between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria, the second government template provides for an agreement to set up and maintain a national park in the area of the Thaya Valley at Hardegg to the extent of currently 1 300 hectares and an option to extend to 1,700 hectares. The template specifies the founding costs of 200 000 S and the capital capital of 500 000 S. The construction costs for the infrastructure are indicated with up to 12 million schillings and the current annual costs of up to 8 million schillings. The Parties shall also seek co-financing by the European Union. Both proposals were adopted unanimously on the basis of the basic and acceptable statements made by the members of the Committee. I would like to say to the still open ground-breaking negotiations that it is necessary to try to convince the owners of this project in open, honest and constructive negotiations. Voluntaryness is the prerequisite for the introduction of their property or for the gradual adaptation of the use of these areas to the objectives of the National Park. Ladies and gentlemen! From the year 2000, Lower Austria will have its second national park thanks to an active environmental policy of the government parties in the federal government and in the state of Lower Austria. It is a great commitment for us to preserve the remaining natural habitats for the next generations, and the best environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen, is always the one that is actually made and not the one that others speak of only. We are measured not on Sundays, but on Mondays. We thus document our respect for the environment, we prove generation thoughts and send a clear signal to cross-border nature conservation in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16291	Mr Rada has also been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16313	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This time, I can agree with the two legislative proposals for the establishment of a national park, Thayatal, because this national park, unlike others, is wanted by the population affected by its establishment, because it has nothing against its institutions and this is considered to be a useful measure. But that was not always the case, and I would like to use this opportunity to note that nothing has changed significantly in the attitude of the affected population to the Danube National Park. – For example, even if the National Parks are referred to as excellent gentle tourist institutions, it must not be allowed to create a suitable transport infrastructure. There is still no corresponding traffic development in the northern part of the Donauen National Park, which occupies the largest area, quite the contrary. The fact that transport links to the southern economic area are not taking place prevents such economic development. Minister! I would like to ask you to take account of economic development in all other national national development measures. In discussion stands for the wine district of the already third national park in Lower Austria, namely the Marchauen National Park. Thus, there will be a continuous barrier corridor in the north, the east and the south, and I have, as I believe, legitimate doubts regarding the economic development of a zone where agriculture and vegetable production are declining and where it will hardly be possible to force economic developments. Overall, I wish the region in the northern wine district the success of the National Park, which the mayors and the inhabitants of the affected places expect! And I hope it doesn't enter what happened in the south!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16351	The next item is Mr Wenitsch's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16369	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rada has already pointed out that the Donauen National Park was not everything the way it should be. Minister! I am pleased when it succeeds in protecting sensitive areas from damage. And this National Park is intended to protect more than 700 different species of plants and 80 species of breeding birds et cetera. But I also hope that the diverse flora and fauna in the final effect will not suffer from mass tourism. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Erwin Pröll’s press releases indicate, among other things, that there are about 50,000 to 70 000 visitors each year. It is hoped to increase purchasing power by about 20 to 40 million schilling annually. That's a huge sum! In view of this, I would like to ask that, if a national park is already created, nature will be protected in the first place. Everything else is beautiful and very good side effects, but most important is the protection of nature. Minister! I am also pleased that similar agreements have apparently been reached with residents and property owners, in contrast to the approach of the Donauen National Park, as a politician in part with incredible prepotence and a lot of inconsistency that have more or less beaten the population between Vienna and Hainburg and between Groß-Enzersdorf and Markthof. How I am with the APA Journal of the 28th century. However, it may have been that, on October 1997, the head of state Erwin Pröll was now a little more cautious, because it states that Erwin Pröll is facing those property owners who are still opposed to the project, in all public opinion, with the call to enter into a constructive dialogue with him. - So far, so good. I hope Erwin Pröll means it honestly! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already come to know from Mr Erwin Pröll that, for example, he is turning and changing laws to favour lobbying in order to be able to expropriate property owners. [[Abg. Head: No, he doesn't!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is already a bit hypocritical by Mr Erwin Pröll – and apparently symptomatic for an ÖVP head of state! – who has always claimed that he advocated civil rights, private property and Christian values: Today, citizens are simply expropriated with the consent of the Lower Austrian head of state! I can prove it to you: With the agreement of the head of state of Lower Austria, property owners are expropriated. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is that covered by law?]] In the meantime, the Constitutional Court has already recognized that it was not covered by law. It has been clearly and clearly stated that under the help of the former Minister for Economic Affairs of the ÖVP, Mr Ditz, Pröll, he has committed injustice and wrong law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thus is double academic Erwin Pröll, who in a public speech attacked a 78-year-old priest roughly and in common and claimed that he was in the private sector – I can only laugh! – one could earn more than now as head of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ex-Economic Minister Ditz has once claimed that he could earn more in the private sector. But where did they accommodate him? From the government bank he came directly to the post office – very "private", this company! Or also ex-minister Scholten, ladies and gentlemen, is known to have ended up in a beautiful "private business", and not even a terrible and tragic suicide has caused this government to finally be objective at the time of post-posting and not only to provide their friends with corresponding posts from the government bank. That's really incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I give the government good advice. [[Abg. Head: No threats please!]] Please leave the private sector out of the game! They already damage the private sector more than enough! Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from that, we will, of course, give our consent to the establishment of this national park. [[Abg. Fink: But now we are surprised!]] Minister! But we will look very closely at the government and the head of state Erwin Pröll, so that private property owners will not be harmed and predisposed.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16481	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16499	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have just found out, the country election in Lower Austria is soon coming! I'm coming back to the Thayatal National Park. Mr. Wenitsch! Mass tourism is really something "forwardable"! If you count between 50,000 and 70 000 visitors per year, this is on average between 150 and 200 people per day. I personally wish the people of this national park that more guests will come for the simple reason, because the protection of nature, which I very much welcome, should also serve to ensure that the people who live there are given a new basis of life. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Head and Abg. Rosemarie Bauer]] Let's look at America: In America, the decision-makers understood 50 to 80 years ago to make use of National Park's leisure centres, which are very likely to promote the protection of nature, but at the same time it is possible that tourists, guests and locals can use this national park in a gentle way in their leisure time, namely in the form, in which sweat is the price. This means that in the peripheral areas of this national park you can drive by car, but you have to walk mainly on foot and there are areas that are difficult to reach – possibly only with the canoe – so that certain species of animals or plant species are protected. In any case, the open use of a national park is much more meaningful than its explanation of the restricted zone. Ladies and gentlemen! Considering the tasks assigned to the National Park Society, we can see that many important and indispensable tasks are involved. In the objective according to Art. III is an essential point, but the word "resurrection" occurs only once. It is only once mentioned under a total of 15 or 20 points that this National Park should have a recreational function! Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, one will have to work much more intensively to ensure that such national parks become tourist destinations, of course, subject to the protection of nature. These destinations should be put into a truly smart and sensible marketing tool, and those people who may have had losses of use in their homes, because they can only use their land more limited, should thus be offered an alternative value added and an alternative life. In conclusion, I think it makes sense for a non-competent, but perhaps not quite incompetent, to comment on such a question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16551	The next word is by Mrs. Ing. Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16572	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on national parks can always be seen as soon as country elections arrive. Wenitsch was able to see this very accurately. But this is also evident in the choice of the subject matter itself: For example, we could unanimously welcome and celebrate the Kalkalpen National Park here in front of the Upper Austrian country election. [[Abg. May. Peter: That was no coincidence!]] I also believe that it is not a mere coincidence that national decisions discussed long before the elections of the country are always taken. I would like to add that the Greens, of course, would like to vote in favour of this law. We are pleased that a national park project will finally be implemented in Austria. For all who do not know: This national park project is a joint project with our neighbor Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic there has been a national park since 1991, in Austria it has lasted a little longer. In the Czech Republic the area is also much larger, there the National Park includes 6 300 hectares, in Austria it becomes at the maximum expansion level if it – hopefully! – at all comes to be 1,700 acres. We would have wanted a slightly larger area. It is good, however, that the country elections have obviously been a bit speedy. It is important that, in this case, cooperation with the local population works better than with the Donauen National Park project – in which, by the way, the liberals have done a great deal of damage to the matter with an incredible polemic – and that it is faster to agree with the owners of the land. Perhaps the colleague from the ÖVP could stop talking to the Minister for the Environment. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: But just a short time!]] No, as long as I talk! It has already been mentioned here that you have already agreed with the property owners. I would be interested if that were true, perhaps you could tell us in your debate contribution! Is it true that there will be a very rapid realization and that not just laws will be passed? Minister! I would like to address two areas which seem to me to be very important in this regard. – On the one hand, I would like to stress that nature conservation is also important outside national parks. I am missing initiatives on the part of the EIA. Because, as we have just seen in Lower Austria, when a rich man like Mr Stronach comes back from Canada, nature conservation is quickly overboard and very quickly granted permits. This has behaved in this planned ball project in Lower Austria, but also at the Wörther See, where you plan to realize a large hotel project in a definitive nature reserve. Obviously, it is not so serious as soon as it takes place outside the National Park! Secondly, I would like to mention that there is an ecologically very dangerous project not far from the planned national park, which we have been trying to point out for days: It is about extending an existing intermediate storage for fuel elements in Dukovany. You, Mr. Environment Minister, met on 11 November. In February 1997, when exactly the same information was available, only then as a rumor, the following press release was made: "Bartenstein: Extension of the intermediate camp Dukovany Bruskierung in Austria". It emphasises that you really reject the Czech Government's course of action that you feel it is a rupture that Austria has a nuclear-energy-skeptical attitude and that this procedure is unacceptable. And in a similar case in December 1992 the then Minister for the Environment for the Smoking of Smoking also pointed out that Dukovany, the first intermediate camp, was concerned and was also committed to the fact that there will be a corresponding participation in this context in Austria. Now we are facing the very same situation, Mr Environment Minister, and I have been missing a clear opinion and support from you for days so that we can make as many objections in Austria as possible or start concrete initiatives towards the Czech Government. This large project, which is planned there, is indeed a huge threat potential directly at the Austrian border, and therefore I miss a clear initiative by the entire Federal Government. I miss a similar opinion from you, Mr Environment Minister, as you did in February 1997. What is the difference between 11. ==References== February 1998? – The big difference is that there is now a concrete project that currently only 15 days of opposition will run and then a legal co-determination within the framework of the Czech EIA will no longer be possible. Now is the delicate phase! But where are the Environment Minister and also the Federal Chancellor in such a case? – You are sitting here, Minister for the Environment! We Greens welcome the Thayatal National Park project, and we welcome the fact that in this vulnerable region with its outdoor landscapes, the appropriate measures are finally being taken in the ecological field. However, I think it is equally important in such a debate to point out that a delicate project of our neighbor Czech Republic is not far from being realized and that Austria has promised to do so, but you have remained guilty to us to this day. I do not know whether you know, Minister of the Environment, that today we have tabled a motion for a resolution in the context of a debate, which would have been incredible both to the Social Democrats and to the EIA, with which we call for this project to be finally contradicted, the government to take appropriate initiatives and also to Parliament. However, this motion for a resolution was rejected by the government parties. I do not understand why the anti-atomism of the Federal Government has suddenly changed, but also that of the two parties here in the house. I would be interested, Mr Federal Minister, especially in the context of this debate, if you are not a very nice weather politician, because on the one hand, you welcome beautiful projects such as the Thayatal National Park project, but on the other hand, you are obviously not as initiative, or are afraid of confrontation, if there is a really threatening project such as that of our neighbours in the Czech Republic! In any case, we have not been able to see what initiatives you are actually taking in this context. That is why we ask you to take advantage of this debate and not only to speak to the Thayatal and the National Park, but also to tell us what you have done so far with regard to this Dukovany intermediate camp and what you intend to do in the remaining 15 days when there is a corresponding opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16625	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You will understand that, as a Member of Parliament who lives in that district affected by the Thayatal project, it is a very happy event for me that these two legislative decisions are being brought to the stage today. And even the conclusion of the Article 15a Treaties on 26 March. October of the previous year, i.e. on the National Day, was an impressive situation and celebration! Mr Wenitsch! I'm not surprised that you tried here again to break free from the election campaign! Just keep going! For every time you roar and re-institutions from the liberals, the results of the survey show that we score enormously from the ÖVP. But I would also have been surprised if you, as a wine-fourtler, had come up with a little more to this national park! - But that's just so much about the matter. I would like to thank Mr Peter, who has recognized what we are talking about. I also hope that the number of 50,000 visitors will increase or that our expectations will be exceeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, this beautiful spot of nature in the Thaya Valley has always been known – but unfortunately only insiders – and has also been used very often. We are pleased about this little piece of nature and about the fact that we were able to conclude this pact and this partnership with nature. This is not only about flora and fauna, but also about a truly beautiful landscape that could offer a lot of relaxation. In this district and in this region – it is not particularly economically developed and is in a certain way in a sandwich function between other districts; of course, it has also felt the dead border and the Iron curtain and therefore still not overcome its economic weakness – we therefore combine the ÖVP with the hope of further economic upturn, jobs and gentle tourism. There is a lot of landscape, sights and culture. The national exhibition six years ago in the Thaya Valley – it took place at Riegersburg – has still been effective. The whole district and the neighboring districts have participated in this national exhibition. If you've seen this little spot of nature, you'll drive it back there. There are many expanded hiking trails, cycle paths and busses there. Our local farmers, too, combine the hope of economic recovery with this National Park Decision. The fact that this national park differs considerably from the Donauen National Park has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. It has also been poured a lot of oil into the fire, especially by the Liberal Group, which really has to be said here. The procedure at the Thayatal National Park was rather a cautious, gradual, involving all groups and across all party borders. Mayor Norbert Kellner has made a special effort, together with the farmers and owners concerned, to gain goodwill step by step and to develop a vision of what this national park could mean for the Austrians. It didn't go without conflicts. In particular, for a period of time, two real estate owners have certainly only taken up the discussion reluctantly. I am pleased that one of these owners has now recognized – and will give his approval – how important this National Park is for the region. As far as the others are concerned, the question is now as to when the leave process will be completed, because now the inheritance has the decision to make how to proceed. But I'm confident. I am grateful to all those involved and think that the decision of these two legislations for our region, for my hometown and for the people of our district is a great concern and a great joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16709	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16731	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last one, I can register in the "Home Game" of the Wine Foursome Members, and I am particularly pleased that there is still a wine-fourthly-mandate on these last reports to the National Park – Minister Werner Fassleven. Welcome! We have heard many arguments, and I would like to address Mr Wabl's criticism of the previous item on the agenda. Of course, we can and should also talk about economic and economic efficiency in environmental projects, and we should ask: Are the funding that we are giving here purely ecological support, or are it not economic support? – My predecessor – like Mr Rada – indicated the problems of the wine district. I too would like to address this briefly. We must not believe - we know this in the meantime, as well as in the debates of some of my previous speakers - that today's decision for a national park already means that tomorrow's establishment. It is necessary for a certain period of time until a national park works. I would remind you, for example, of the quite good statements of the Federal Environment Agency, the UBA info available via the Internet. On this occasion I would also like to point out the excellent achievements of the Federal Environment Agency. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Do we want to privatize it?]] This information also shows that periods of construction of more than 20 years are quite common and common. You can also see from this list that there are various numbers of visitors for national parks: They range from three visitors – this is not a mistake in hearing – to 20 million per year. The wine district is actually not in a rosy economic situation. The case of the Iron Curtain has led to a short boom that we must not be satisfied with. Let me briefly add a few figures to the comments made by my previous speakers: In the district of Gänserndorf – this one is the best, it is located in Lower Austria at 9. Job – a median income of 18,737 S is recorded, i.e. 50 percent earn more, 50 percent earn less. For women it is 13 440 p. It looks even more dramatic in the Hollabrunn district – it has been in the last place of the Lower Austrian districts for years: 50 percent of the population are under 16 500 S, 50 % of those under 12 780 S. It seems to me strange to read in the top info of the Chamber of Commerce as a claim that the reduction in total labour costs at the bottom of the wage scale would open up employment conditions for few qualified persons. Ladies and gentlemen! A reduction in total labour costs is not only a reduction in additional labour costs, as it is repeatedly demanded, but a deeper cut. That's where I ask: What do you imagine in the Chamber of Commerce when it comes to a district where, I repeat, 50 percent of women earn less than 12,800 s? How far should total labour costs be reduced in the wine district? In my previous speakers, the purchasing power flow is also clung. I think that during these 20 years, until these national parks actually work, projects are needed and projects should not be prevented. In my speech too, I hope, not as polemic as Mr Wenitsch's speech, the Lower Austrian election advertising is going through, and I therefore think that we should take advantage of opportunities, for example the chance of a shopping centre in the north similar to the Shopping City in the south. More than 60 percent of the purchasing power of the Gänserndorf region flows to Vienna. If one could use purchasing power here, it does not mean, as the economy in Vienna and Lower Austria says, the loss of jobs, but it means the gain of purchasing power and an increase in jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President. I too am pleased that in our region – in a beautiful piece of Lower Austria – it has succeeded in deciding on this national park. I wish him a lot of economic success for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16768	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16790	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you do not refuse your consent today to the Article 15a Treaty to the Thayatal National Park, this is the essential step towards establishing the fifth National Park in this country. I would remind you that, in the last 12 months alone, three national parks have been established with respect, the necessary legal steps have been taken, namely the Donauen National Park, the Kalkalpen National Park and the Thayatal National Park. That can be seen. It's another nature conservation performance I'm saying: In the category of national parks and scientific reserves – that is, the highest nature conservation categories in the world – the federal government is well advised to cooperate actively, to co-finance 50 percent and to cooperate in these areas of competence that are now reserved for countries. So it is also in this case: The Land of Lower Austria and we share the expenses for the National Park Society relative to 50 : 50. The establishment of a very slim society with an annual cost of 8 million schillings and a unique construction cost of 12 million schillings. Because this was asked by Mrs Langthaler, I would like to answer a part of her question by saying that there is a need for agreement with the property owners and that agreement has not yet been reached in two cases. This is the task of the state of Lower Austria. But my information suggests that in 2000 the actual opening of the Thayatal National Park and commissioning can be expected. I believe, however, that the managing director can already be announced in the spring of 1998 and that there will be a hearing in the course of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rada! Let me assure you, as I have already said in the Committee, that, after the Danube National Park and after the Thayatal National Park, there is no intention of establishing another national park in this region of Lower Austria. This certainly does not justify your concerns regarding a transport or economic integration of a part of Lower Austria. Mrs Langthaler! You have devoted part of your debate to the topic of Dukovany. Although, from my point of view, this has little to do with the Thayatal National Park, I would like to inform you briefly that I was in contact with the Czech Minister for the Environment Skalicky just days ago, that I informed him in writing about the concerns and concerns and asked him to return. Unfortunately, I have not yet received a reply from the Czech Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16835	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one is reporting on this. This debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 904 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a single vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law a sign of approval at third reading. – This, too, is done with a light of votes. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to approve the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria for the establishment and maintenance of a national park of Thayatal and its annex in 905 of the Supplements. If you want to give them, I ask for a sign of approval. – This too is done in a single light. Accepted. 20. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 565/A (E) by Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades on the establishment of a 380 kV line in Austria (1073 of the supplements) 21. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment 35/A (E) by Mr Ute Apfelbeckand Comrades on the preparation of further independent opinions on the need for the establishment of a 380 kV line "UW Kainachtal – UW Wien Südstück" and the amendment of the 1968 Starktromwegengesetz as regards a civil participation procedure within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act (EIA-G) and the preparation of an independent study on decentralized energy supply as an alternative to the Oststeiermark (1070 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16924	We now come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e16954	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The request under discussion is no longer concerned with finding that many of the arguments put forward at the time were no longer valid when it came to obtaining the authorisation for the construction of the 380 kV management by the Burgenland. At that time it was said that in Burgenland the lights will go out if this line does not come. To date, this has not been the case, and it would not be the case in the future, would not be the case. But this debate is being debated, and that is why I warn the honourable Members who are coming after me to deal with this debate again. It is not the content of this request. This is about the demand for a construction stop, because at the Styrian border, aspects have developed which are not yet really discussed. From the Rotenturm – this is a municipality in Burgenland – the course of the trail is completely unexplained. Even the course through the nature reserve between Wolfau and Markt Allhau is completely unclear, and yet the construction of the management in Burgenland has already begun. We therefore see the situation now in such a way that at least from the Rotenturm the further course into the Styria is not fixed and is not clear how this line should be built. Above all, the Styria – and there the Styrian state government with ÖVP politicians – has opposed the Starktromwegengesetz to the Constitutional Court, because Styria's policy in the construction of this 380-kV management by the Styria still wants to speak. In my opinion, the Styrian government has also decided unanimously to amend the Nature Conservation Act in order to be able to speak a word by means of the Nature Conservation Act. Finally, in the Styria region of more than a hundred municipalities affected by the course of this route, there are unanimous municipal council decisions to prevent the construction of this management. In addition, there are results of a number of popular surveys which, with approvals of 80, 90 or 95 percent, are directed against the construction of this management. It is therefore quite a resistance across the parties in the Styria, there is a completely unexplained situation, and yet the construction of the leadership through the Burgenland has already begun. It can now be concluded that, due to the resistance in the Styria building in Burgenland, there is no further construction in the Styria. That is why this is a very reasonable request, which reads as follows: Construction stop until the course of the route from Rotenturm to the Burgenland-Steirian border and subsequently the problems in Styria have been resolved. Nevertheless, I personally believe that the entire construction of the 380 kV line would not be necessary in terms of the electricity supply of the affected areas. The entry into force of the EdF at EStAG is a clear indication that the main argument at the time is still valid: a ring line for the import, export and transport of nuclear power is to be built there.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17000	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17021	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am somewhat amazed – or not – Mr Schweitzer, when you ask or ask your interlocutors to stop going to Burgenland and the situation there. [[Abg. May. Steindl: He's afraid!]] I can understand you're uncomfortable. But on the other hand, you can't make it that easy. First, the construction of this line for the Burgenland brings the downfall of 300 high-voltage masts on the one hand, on the other hand 120 new ones. So there is a real degradation of 180 masts in the landscape of the Burgenland. And you can't win that as a Burgenlander? – That alone seems to me to be a bit strange. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Think of the health risk!]] As much as I hear from the Burgenland, at the time your party did not only find itself with it, but even very welcome it. But it is precisely in the argument as to how you need it and how it fits in just like that. It is similar with the argument about the need for this 380 kV ring. Although serious, serious studies on the one hand have long demonstrated the sensuality and necessity of this project, on the other hand, there is always a double practice in the argumentation, which really screams to heaven. I said it last time, at the first reading: If, on the one hand, there are discussions such as those about Lambbach and some there are trying to make political small money, then with great ears one hears the statements of the combined general director Haider, who does not say wrongfully that he could substitute from the capacity of Lambbach through his probably a little too large or no longer contemporary project Freudnau. However, appropriate electricity transmission networks are necessary in order to be able to make such large-scale power distributions. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's a new shame now!]] Not only because of Lambach, but in general, if I want large-scale power distribution, I have to provide the networks for it. There are then again indications of regional supply and supply of electricity in applications – if one fits one of the factors in the argumentation. So always the way you just fit: Once it is intended to be the large-scale distribution, if one does not want to have a regional project and if one wants political small money from it. It should then be the regional provision again if one wants to prevent the large distribution networks, which are of course necessary. I mean, one and the other, the five and the alarm clock together, you're gonna be hard to deal with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I admit that a very, very sensitive situation has arisen in the Styria. There are very different situations of interest, that is quite clear: on the one hand, the sensuality and necessity of the closure of this supply ring, on the other hand legitimate interests of communities and individual citizens, who can little advantage from this project in the old form. But, as we also know, there are now very serious studies, for example from Joanneum Research, which propose other, far better-tolerable route tours. These are also possible and feasible in all assessments, and it will now add to the project the consensusr, the applicant, so that it can implement and implement it in an administrative procedure. It will be difficult – I admit – to bring these interests into one's hands. But I am quite confident that this will succeed. But now that one is going here and putting requests for construction stop into a procedure that is already completed – in a rule of law – I am quite surprised. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Awesome!]] This is really a step too far. It is a procedure which has been concluded in the Burgenland and for which there is an authorisation which is valid, up to the highest authorities, and that one now wants to put it out of force in Parliament with a request, as far as we are not going to let it come into our rule of law. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Not even the trail guide is clear!]] We certainly don't give in to that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17120	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17142	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. My previous speaker has given me a lot of smile, because all the arguments I have known for a long time have come back. [[Abg. Head: That's nice!]] We have already heard of these in Zwentendorf, and they are constantly repeating themselves again: [[Abg. Head: You won't be wrong!]] We're not going to put something that's decided to put on the head again now, is it? At the same time, you are turning out very strange pirouettes when it comes to, for example, signaling understanding of the attitude of the Styrian state government. These are party friends, we understand each other quite clearly! [[Abg. Head: These are local interests!]] The "a little too big power plant Freudnau" is then the next turn in the pirouette. We understand this too, of course: Who was somehow involved in a little too large a power plant, Freudnau? Which ministers, which coalitions were involved? – This is a little embarrassing that it has become too big. [[Abg. Wabl: 50 billion schilling!]] But you are laying the track exactly where it belongs: that in energy policy you have been planning everything far too big for more than 20 years and also more and more by the technology that would have been in demand – starting with Zwentendorf up to the great power plant Freudnau – and always coming up afterwards – see Trassenführung Styria – that it was also different. [[Abg. Head: What technology would that be?]] This is the most exciting thing: Then, at some point, the insight will come to you – late, but still. Now there are the studies of Joanneum Research – we don't want to ask any further questions as to whether there could be any party-political relevance; it's good that there are them – and now you have some insight. I find that exciting. I would really welcome it once if we could save ourselves such requests in retrospect because this insight would come to you in advance. That would be quite different. We are also on the subject: If you want to make us know now, you need this 380 kV line for the a little too big power plant Freudnau, then this argument goes by again on the real topic [[Abg. Head: So, please!]] It's about a power rail for the nuclear current across Austria, it's about a rail for the nuclear current across Europe! We knew that right from the beginning. Why, do you think, have the EStAG shares been sold to the EdF? Why do you think? What was the outstanding interest of EdF in this purchase in Austria? – This is quite clear. In the last weeks, around Christmas, you have been able to read this in all the newspapers, even in the newspapers that are close to you. Everyone put this on the table quite clearly. They will be hard to do – both addressed to SPÖ and to the ÖVP – to maintain their credibility in nuclear policy even further. It is piece by piece a salami tactics as well as in other areas where you cut off one piece after another from a laborious consensus that has once existed in anti-atomic policy. [[Abg. Head: Once you want power replacements, then complain again!]] The 380 kV line is a cut from the Salamistange, the purchase of the EdF is a second cut of the Salamistange. The non-existent opposition at Dukovany to this day is the third piece of the Salamivurst that you cut off, and gradually nothing remains of your alleged anti-atomic policy – I say soon – that you want to drive. They deal with your own disbelief. Mr Minister, it is nice that you have written a letter. This is really overwhelming: You wrote a letter! I only wonder where the opposition of the Federal Government remains, if there is supposed to be a national consensus in anti-atomic policy. But as I said, Cut off one piece after another. We'll show you every slice of this salami again and tell you what it is. Finally, it is clear: They are nothing but the helpers and the servants of European nuclear policy. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17259	Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17280	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl, you are quite right to point out that we have been discussing this issue over and over again for a year and a half, and have been listening to it for almost a day and a host of experts. All of us have come to the conclusion that we continue to support this expansion programme from this House. Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of this 380 kV line in this debate, and thus this loophole, is part of the coordinated management development programme. That means that this expansion is taking place in stages. Therefore, Mr Schweitzer, I simply cannot follow your argument: Because if we had acted as you suggested in the explanatory statement on your request, we would not have been able to build a single kilometer of this 380 kV line. It was always the case that, of course, all legal proceedings had to be dealt with first, as was the case now in Burgenland. Due to the relevant information, the construction was then started. The same happens now in the Styria. . I think a number of members of my group are still on the table, which will deal with regional problems and aspects of this issue. I have to say to Mrs Kammerlander – I hope I am not very unattractive now: Mrs. Colleague! I've heard better contributions from you here, who really loved me. I can only recommend: Please invest almost as much time in this subject as we have done so before. Then we will both know what we are talking about when it comes to energy issues and, above all, the extension of this loop. If I remember correctly, we discussed this issue in connection with the energy report in the Committee on Energy, and in the 1996 energy report, the need for the high-voltage network was clearly and conclusively presented. Furthermore, as Mr Kopf has already mentioned, this need has also been demonstrated by a large number of studies. I can only mention the aspect of security of supply. Experts explain to us that, especially in the south-east of our federal territory, only the 380 kV line ensures security of supply. On the transfer losses. Ladies and gentlemen just from the Greens! We're talking so much about saving energy. Now, if we really have a higher voltage of 380 kV, this is a saving that corresponds to the scope of power of the Freudnau power plant! In view of this, I think that we must deal with it seriously and not be so easily dealt with. I am not so unhappy that the procedures are difficult and that the citizens are involved. [[Abg. Wabl: You see that right!]] This has recently led to the development of these high-level networks of services being closer to citizens and more landscape-oriented. The height of the masts was drastically reduced to 42 meters. Mr Kopf has already explained how many masts are disassembled from 110 kV and 220 kV lines when this trail is built in Burgenland. Similarly, it will behave in the Styria if the new trail is led parallel to the already existing ones. And even the affected communities will be supported accordingly in their efforts to make these not very beautiful masts – nor am I excited about it – disappear a little more than before from the landscape. Ladies and gentlemen! A technical detail at the edge: At the beginning of my energy spokesperson activity, I was concerned about why we cannot transport electricity under the ground, if that goes in the cities. – Unfortunately, technologically it is still not possible to transport high voltage with 380 kV under the green meadow, i.e. under the ground. First of all, one would need a very broad route, which would be a landscape destruction par excellence. Secondly, if there are difficulties, one must also add to such an underground trajectory, and that would only be possible if one were to lead it along a motorway, which would be a huge effort which we could not afford to afford. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in committee against the request of the liberals, and my group will not approve of this motion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17318	Next word: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17339	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf, who for the first time has acted as a landscape protector today! We have heard that 180 masts are removed – comparatively Mästchen – and that new masts are built instead. In Burgenland, the lights go out, it was called about one and a half years ago or more than one and a half years ago. I should also like to remind you that Mrs Fekter made the call for interim action in the event of a debate: Do you think that the lyocell in Burgenland will be fed with solar power? – I can say: It is not the need of the Lyocell plant in Burgenland that forces us to build a 380 kV line here. It is always said that numerous opinions have been made. . And that is exactly why our Styrian Members have tabled a request, which will remain for a year and a half and is being dealt with late here today. Further opinions on the opinions were made by Professors Edwin and Glavitsch in order to check the sense of meaning. . However, as my colleague, Mr Applebeck, stated in her request, transmission specialists who had a very clear mission, and not those who would be desirable to check whether and in what way it is useful to ensure safe energy supply here! I am always surprised that the example of Lambbach is being cited by my colleague, Mr Kopf. For combined general Hans Haider has offered to take along the necessary supply as well, and has pointed out that there is no need for the construction of this power plant. We're just talking about completely different dimensions here. And the construction stop requested by Mr Schweitzer and making sense should not lead you, Mr Head, to say that we are living in a rule of law and that we have completed procedures. It makes relatively little sense to build a line to the Rotenturm – you will give me a right to make a connection through a line – only so that the Redenturm at the Styrian border is thus supplied with the corresponding electricity. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Why does that make little sense?]] Mrs Colleague from Burgenland! With this 380 kV line... [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Read your concept more accurately next time!]] I am amazed what wise advice I receive from a former minister! Always wise tips! I have experienced this with your contributions already more often! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] This makes little sense, however, in the light of the sale of the shares of the EStAG makes it very sense. And now we are back in that area that the Greens are equally addressing, namely the nuclear power rail. When it comes to building the nuclear power rail, ladies and gentlemen, you should also say this to the public! With these measures and with this procedure, you are contrasting with the Austrian anti-CFC policy – as I believe – in an over-stripping way, and we do not understand that you hide your actual attitude under the guise of the rule of law or in this context suggest the rule of law. It makes sense to ensure that ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, stop by which means the procedure can also be clarified in the Styria. Then you would have time to take the right measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17396	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this debate is affected by the fact that certain aspects are clearly confused. The repetition of opinions – and I say that quite clearly now – does not bring anything at all and is therefore unnecessary in this case, because in reality it is about the conceptual question. If you decide to build a 380 kV network in Austria, there are not many variants in this country for topographic reasons. This is the point, and I believe that if you have opted for modern energy supply, you can no longer seriously transport large quantities below the 380 kV level! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is not possible, because the loss of transmission, which Mr Oberhaidinger has mentioned, is simply a crucial moment! Now there are the famous arguments with the nuclear current from the East, which Mrs Kammerlander and Mr Schweitzer have put forward. – If you believe that by affording ourselves an area where we do not have a suitable high-voltage network, we are contributing to the hindering of any superfluous and absolutely objectionable investments, then you are mistaken! For such plants are not built in the hope that the electricity produced there will then be able to export one to one to Austria, but will be built from other – I think wrong – considerations. But this cannot be influenced by the fact that we are about to shut down our network. That won't help! It would be similar if you said: Because there is air pollution from motor vehicles worldwide, let's put it in the car traffic at all. Then the others will do the same! – I don’t know how people imagine it! That's not the way. That's pre-eminent effect hashery, and I mean, that's wrong. A means, for example, would be a suitable European nuclear liability law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] If we were to use nuclear liability throughout Europe, then Europe would have the same development as in the USA: It is only because of the fact that nuclear energy is not insurable if the risks really need to be borne, that power plants are no longer built. That was so easy! If we were to make it clear to our friends in the East that a liability case is ruining their economies because they really had to pay, then they would lose the fun of these investments very quickly! And it would also be no pleasure for the creditors concerned to finance something, which may then result in the disastrous bankruptcy. Apart from that, of course, every nuclear accident is a human disaster and an ecological disaster. I don't want to tell you all that now. I think it is necessary to start with one's policy where everyone can go. And those who may still believe that nuclear energy is safe would be instructed by the assurances of a better person if this kind of energy turns out to be insecure. I mean, that's a stringed logic! But if you try to attach the antiatomic argumentation to the 380 kV line now, that's just an effect hashery. It's just an old rule: Policy without expertise can be an adventure. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Exactly!]] I am fully aware of any suspicion of speaking any word for nuclear energy. It is known that I am already in front of Chernobyl at a time when people still felt that the concerns about nuclear energy cannot be taken very seriously – and some have only turned to Chernobyl in their opinion – within the energy economy against nuclear energy and have not been eradicated there. I may not have been really popular, but they didn't exterminate me for that. That is why the question of the credibility of the Federal Minister, who has also been tailor-made, is quite clear, but not precisely in this context. There would be a long list of other ways to attack him, but in this context attacks are unwarranted. And I am also very nervous about the EStAG pity! Of course, it's a risky thing to let a foreign investor in. But if today I assume that someone with a 25 percent share and a 25 percent share has a decisive influence on a society, then I – and this is a possibility anyway – assume to the country of Styria and its political leaders that they have actually made secret agreements and are therefore actually Gauner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] As long as there is no proof of this, I can think of it, but perhaps it should not be said, for caution is a wise thing, and it is not proven. The EStAG solution is a result of the failing Austrian general energy policy. That's right! Because if we had reached an overall solution in the form of unbundling at the federal level and so on and so on, then it might not have come to the EStAG solution. But what can the country of Styria do if Mr Farnleitner does nothing? I have to say that quite clearly. This solution in the Styria is not my wishful solution. But to fight them with these arguments is again a pre-eminent practice, which assumes that people do not understand it and that one can make good politics with fear. And that is why I am sorry because energy policy really has a lot to criticise: The alternative forms of energy are not supported, the feed-in tariffs are still scandalous, there is still no ecological tax reform with the corresponding steering effects, in the field of transport the rail is still not sufficiently preferred in relation to the road, and I could list examples for hours. These are the real topics, but these relate only to the laborious downfalls of everyday life and do not include the effect of fear of nuclear power. I emphasize: In any case, with or without 380 kV, Lambach is a misinvestment! And if today the energy industry has to admit that it has had billions of investments that it really has to call'sunk costs', then I would remind you that we have known for a long time that we have overcapacity, but that was the race of the national societies with the link that caused it. And Freudenau is after all through a... [[Abg. Wabl: Why did the EdF, in your opinion, invest in Styria?]] Mr Wabl! I'm going to try to answer it a little funny now. [[Abg. Wabl: Are you not intelligent enough for this?]] What kind of country do you think the Styria is? [[Abg. Wabl: A Principality!]] Is this a society that produces nuclear energy, or is the Styria more hydropower-based? What would you think if you looked at Mellach once? [[Abg. Wabl: Reply! Don't ask any questions!]] Mr. Wabl! Faith Are you serious about the fact that a person whose business policy is nuclear energy considers it intelligent to invest in hydropower? Faith You do? Or do you think that the Styria is such a fantastic market for exports from France, so that there are several billion involved? – Rather, this is the smart policy of a strategic investor! This investor is not sympathetic to me, and that the interlocutory company has fallen asleep because it did not want to bring its STEG participations into the EStAG, which is another chapter. We are completely in agreement on this. But such hysterical fear of a shareholder of 25 percent can only have someone who has no idea of economics! Faith Do you really think that the EdF can now decide the purchase at EStAG at 25 percent? Faith You really do? [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: There is an additional agreement!]] Where is it? Bring me the additional agreement! I am ready to talk about an additional agreement if there is one! [[Abg. Wabl: It would be for the Minister of Economic Affairs to present them! He says there's one, but he can't present it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: First you have to ask the Farnleitner!]] If there is an additional agreement that says something like that, then it would be really criminal, I say quite clearly! [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Mr Langthaler! I don't like to argue about real excesses now! I have not taken action to defend the Federal Government, but I have come here today to argue for substance in energy policy. I've got critical fields enough! But if you get into the 380 kV line, it's so childish that it hurts me, especially with people who use it for themselves that they want to make politics. This is a deliberate policy of fruitification! That's not the theme! On the EStAG participation, I would like to say to you: It may be that the people in the Styria, if they are unreasonable, will abuse, but not because of the 25 percent. They don't need to take part in this, but it went without participation, dear Wabl! Faith You really think there's a need to get involved in a secret agreement? Apparently you've never really had anything to do with business in your life, otherwise you wouldn't be able to say that! [[Abg. Wabl: Why did the EdF invest there?]] If they want to make something unclean, they don't need any involvement. Are we in agreement? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But I say again: I don't defend that. I just want to make it clear that the arguments put forward here are not factual. [[Abg. Wabl: Why did the EdF invest there? I would just like a modest answer to this question.]] And since the arguments are not factual, we unfortunately cannot accept these requests. They are well meant, but well meant not yet that they are right. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17606	Next word: Mr Koller. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17628	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The theme of 380 kV management through the East and South Styria has been a permanent burner for ten years. From the outset, it was criticized that all the negotiations on race management had been kept secret. All that had happened was that the communities had little opportunity to inform themselves in good time. In addition, the economic necessity of the route is questioned. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Who?]] We liberals do not want nuclear power to be transported to and through Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By expanding the 380 kV network, only the infrastructure is created to expand international nuclear power trade. The horror vision of the Verbund AG that Austria is being made a European power hub is gradually being realized. The sale of 25 percent of EStAG to the Electricité de France goes in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! In our proposal 35/A (E) we call for further advice on the need to establish this 380 kV line and the preparation of an independent study on decentralised energy supply as an alternative to the interconnected network for the Eastern Styria region. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our request also includes the amendment of the 1968 Starktromwegengesetz as regards a civil participation procedure within the meaning of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. The Styrian Government has already opposed the Starkstromwegengesetz to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that neither the citizens concerned nor the municipalities have a party position. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1996, there was a referendum in 20 affected East Styrian communities. The result was a clear no to the 380 kV line. There are also unanimous municipal council decisions against the 380 kV management in the municipalities concerned. SPÖ and ÖVP mayors demand the same, which includes our request, namely the amendment of the Starktromwegegesetz. Support by Red and Black Your own mayor! Show citizens' proximity and take off your double-beddedness! The voters will demask you anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17677	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17696	Mr President. Minister! Today I have become richer for a knowledge. I had to say: Mr Schweitzer is against the fire brigade. – Deputies! Somehow so, today's argument was: If there's no fire for a year, we don't need fire brigade vehicles and no fire brigade – that's why we're with them! - That's about what you argued today. That's not logical. It is totally illogical to pull a 380 kV line through Austria and then stop at one point. It is necessary for this ring to come together, because otherwise there is no guarantee of security of supply in Burgenland and elsewhere. [[Ironic cheerfulness and call of the coffin. May. Schweitzer.]] The network hasn't collapsed yet, dear Karl. But, as you know, we only have a 110 kV line in Burgenland, which does not form a closed ring. The weakest place in the Burgenland lies between Mattersburg and St. Martin. And even if one argues that this line is only 70 percent spent, that means that it is overloaded by 40 percent at peak load times. That's a simple bill! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It is therefore necessary to complete the 380 kV line. I know, of course, that concerns and fears exist in the Styrian population. It is clear to me that this is not a problem of a party, it is a regional problem, and I believe that it is only possible to solve this regional problem and not with such requests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Karl! I have to tell you: I don't know you anymore! You're against the 380 kV line, and you were against the Burgenland trassation. However, in your liberal postilles – here I have one – there are advertisements that point to the need for the 380 kV line. You're against press releases. However, Mr Landesrat Wagner, who has now become a member of the Liberal and Reformist Council in Burgenland, is in turn speaking for the 380 kV leadership. – I no longer know what the line of the liberals is: Are they against or before? – I would advise you: Before you submit applications, clear your internal position! Then you can talk about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17752	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17770	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer! You have addressed the route to Rotenturm and speak of a management tour over nature reserve. – This is not true: None of the planned trails go over a nature reserve! To this end, an approval procedure will be initiated this year, in which the parties will have the opportunity to submit their proposals. The subject is not unknown. We have already dealt with this issue in 1995 and from our point of view nothing has changed. The arguments are the same, and urgency exists the same as three years ago. In my opinion, therefore, the applications can have only two reasons: Either you want to take away the valuable time, or all that we spoke three years ago is no longer present. – I suppose that more will be the case. Because that you're a little forgetful, we know that from the case of Anderle – Tomsits, if I may remind you. The construction of the 380 kV line in Burgenland is legally regulated, the Burgenland companies have already expanded this line to half extent. A construction stop is therefore not in question for us. Mr Kopf has already pointed out that you probably have a small problem with the recognition of the rule of law. I do not want to deal with the content because three years ago we did this very intensively. I would just like to point out that it is quite common to build in different areas in stages. In this respect, there is a clear acceptance and criticism of transport routes, and the same should, of course, be possible in the area of power lines. The 380 kV ring around Austria is such a project, which has been built for more than 15 years. There are the corresponding expansion plans on which you can follow the annual stages closely. Now the Burgenland section is on the line, which will undoubtedly be built, not only because this means for our economy orders in the order of 500 million schilling and also more employees, but because the Burgenländer also have a right to a correspondingly safe power supply, as well as all the other states of Austria. The Burgenland will continue to be Objective 1 territory after 1999. And it will be further expanded to allow as many commuters as possible to find work at home. This means further operations, and of course that means safe power supply. Mr Schweitzer! You always pretend that you want to work especially for the Burgenian counterparts. Now there is a possibility, but you are against it again. But you probably don't, you're not affected, because you're one of the most successful old political pensioners! I do not want to say anything about Styria, but the colleague from Styria will still comment on this. In any case, we will not tire out constantly demanding the exit from nuclear energy, especially in relation to the Eastern countries. We offer replacement power supplies, and it is self-evident that this is only possible if we have efficient lines and systems accordingly. Finally, I may ask you to finally stop with the nuclear current fairy tale. The fact is that it is not only in the East that nuclear power is produced and that the generations present will probably not succeed in getting out of it all over the world. This means that there is also nuclear power around Austria – currently about 30 percent. It is a fact that 10 per cent of the total flow flows across state borders, and that nuclear currents, of course, also flow there, is no question. This means that nuclear power flows across the Austrian borders as well. The longer it prevents the construction of the 380 kV ring, colleague Schweitzer, the longer and the more atomic current will have to flow across the Austrian borders. You declare from year to year that you are or will be governmental. This includes, of course, the same seriousness, Mr Schweitzer. These two applications today are not an example of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17828	Mrs Krammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – The remaining time of your club is a total of 11 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17857	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal seems to me to be a new tactic of the preventers. But what has happened to the Burgenland is of course also true for the Styria. I did not agree with this warning to the Members. [[In the direction of the Abg. May. Schweitzer:]] We are at least as elected mandates as you are, and you will still be allowed to talk in this House! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As far as I am concerned, I am not allowed to speak by Schweitzer Karl! I see a reason: He is afraid that our reasonable arguments with which we have convinced the Burgenländer are also taking place in Styria. That can be natural. And I suppose he's pushing the Styria forward, and he's actually trying to start up trouble again in the Burgenland, with the renunciation: In Burgenland the argument was put forward at the time, the lights go out. - I turn this around and say: I hope you get a light once! Do you understand me? [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ and ÖVP as well as at the Liberal Forum.]] Then we can keep talking. With the Schweitzer Karl, to whom a light has been raised, I am happy to have every discussion. For one thing notices you, you applicant: Many people in the Burgenland combine the creation and operation of this management with the hope of securing jobs and the hope of creating new jobs. Today's day has begun with the concern of the coalition to create jobs. That's part of it, and you should remember that, my friend. This applies to the Burgenland, and this applies to the Styria. We don't care if it comes to business settlements in the southern Burgenland and the Styria – you obviously do. Here the rejection becomes a self-evident, and we do not give in to that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, each thing has two pages, that's clear to me. But we in the Burgenland - and this must also apply to the Styria - have examined all the objections that have been raised with all the seriousness. It has as far as possible been addressed to all objections and we have succeeded in removing all objections. That's right: Nothing is just black and nothing is only white in this world. But one has come closer to one another, one has taken all the objections to the route guide. One has chosen landscape-saving mast heights, the ecological construction supervision is anchored in the nature conservation notice. You can't imagine a better solution. And that will be in Styria the way it was in Burgenland. The population of Burgenland has long understood this. I do not want to say that the Steirs will understand that this 380 kV line will bring jobs to the region. It's not funny, ladies and gentlemen, when you get time of your life... Look Not so, Mrs Langthaler, you have never had to commut! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: What?]] You never took the backpack at 4 o'clock in the morning and had to drive to Vienna, but the Burgenländer already. Try For 40 years, then talk differently! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17920	Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time left: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17941	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Christa Krammer! As a steirer, I already have to say: We Steirer are not so conceptual that we do not realize that this important 380 kV line will also benefit our federal state. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: I assumed!]] But we want to convince ourselves whether we are taking a right step, and that is why we need some time. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Can you explain why it is important for the commuters to build the line?]] Dear colleagues from the Styrian FPÖ! I would ask you to understand that we cannot accept this request. I think it would counter the joint efforts of our Styrian government. We have commissioned an opinion, and its outcome is awaiting. This will soon be available, and then you will be able to deal seriously with this issue again. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to say one thing after Mr Schweitzer has been speaking so many times today. As a member of this House and as a representative of the Styria, I am aware that he is actually against all the things that the Styria brings forward in technological and economic terms. Now he's against the 380 kV line. He's also against the Semmering Tunnel. This is actually a very anti-technology attitude that I can't share. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, out of respect and in view of the critical attitude of many communities in Styria, that the following points should be considered: First of all, cooperation with the affected population in the Styria should be improved than before – many are unclear in terms of race management and other things – and secondly, the objective opinions should be more involved, also taking into account international research results. Furthermore, there should be fair redundancies for affected property owners. If I may speak here as a representative of my own country, I would generally like to say on the energy situation: I would like to see a fair solution for the many small municipal and private energy companies in the coming decision on the reorganisation of the e-Economie in Austria, but also a solution that will provide for the further use of the Styrian lignite for energy generation. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion, and I just want to say one more thing: I still think that the Styria has reached a good solution with the cooperation with the EdF. I must point out that STEWEAG had a very thin capital cap and high capital obligations and that it was also about jobs. Therefore, after no agreement has been reached in Austrian, this solution has been established. I am also opposed to the Mär of the nuclear power import. There is an opinion from an EdF representative who said: We have a very special interest in this region because we have already invested 11 billion Schilling in Switzerland, Hungary and Poland. For us, this region represents a second ring. We want to see a second production site in these countries, which are so far away from France. We cannot transport our electricity there, but we want to distribute it very well. In this sense, I believe that it is a good solution for Austria and for the southeast of our federal territory when there is an international power hub. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e17992	The next speech comes from Mr Mag. Schweitzer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18014	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not because I want to know from my colleague, Mr Krammer, how a management automatically creates jobs in the country through which she leads, I have spoken again. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Sad that you don't know!]] It is rather a question of correcting Mr Kaipel, since he obviously gave something of himself out of uninformedness, which is not true. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kaipel! I'm not a "good old political pensioner". On page 166 in the "NEWS" published today, you can read that I did not opt for this system, as you put me from this speaker's desk – as did all the others of my group. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen from your group, this privilege has broken down very well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18055	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18077	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier – now he has different things to do – has explained here as a very good member of the opposition, how beautiful the world is. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: With facts, unlike you!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Make it shorter!]] He was really very touching about how a state company had been subsidized for decades so that it could build nuclear power plants – a state company that for decades had been able to switch and operate as a pure monopoly company in France, as she wanted – and then get into a Marod energy company with the "Kriegskassa" in Styria. That's where I wonder... [[Abg. Fink: As best beekeeper!]] Of course, as a best beekeeper! In those cases, it does not matter whether it costs half a billion more or less, which would have always offered half a billion more than the respective best bidder. [[Abg. Fink: But the Styria already!]] Now you're wondering: What is the interest of the French nuclear industry in playing part in privatization in Styria? – This is the pikanery: We privatize, and then a French state company buys. But that's another story. Mr Kier! I only have the request to you that you spend your intelligence on it and think about what such a "small" "moderate" state group like the EdF in Austria, in Styria, has lost. Is it a good investment? - No, I don't. So that's not it. Is it about importing electricity? I'll give you an exception. The direct import of electricity does not matter. [[Abg. Fink: Have you had anything against the foreigners lately?]] The question is: What does a company want when it's not an investment that's self-appointed? – Then this company wants to influence energy policy. And the crucial and important question is: Who makes energy policy in Austria? Is it Parliament? Is it the Minister of Economic Affairs? Is it the Environment Minister? Is it the Federal Government? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The Bavaria!]] Or is this the French state industry, the French nuclear industry? – You are right, of course it is also the Bavarian nuclear industry. If this is Austrian energy policy, that you are impoverishingly interfering here, I ask you, Mr Kier, to reconsider your opposition role. Ladies and gentlemen! I've heard a lot today. The colleague from Styria wants to start again with the lignite to gain energy and to obtain jobs. Mrs Krammer has said here that there are jobs created by the ring management. I don't know what to hear today. I would have liked to hear here in this House that over the last decades 50 billion schilling has been invested in power stations that have been set on sand. Who has political responsibility for this? The ÖVP? - No, please, she wasn't there. Mr. Kier? - No, he was just Mr. Steger's consultant. The SPÖ? - No, please, God forbid! And then an ÖVP politician comes here to this speaker's desk and says, under Mr. Minister's silent smiles: The Joyenau power plant is a little too big. – What did we have to listen to Greens in Austria when we said: This is a false and uneconomic investment!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Argument was put forward here with the environmental argument: Electricity generation from hydropower is particularly environmentally friendly. Now the industry, the economy and the union – and hopefully the Environment Minister too – recognize that 50 billion schilling has been misappropriated in Austrian folk power, ladies and gentlemen! Then you come out again and want to start the next big project, Mrs Krammer, and you also beseech the Mrs Langthaler that she does not know what a donor is! [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: So you will still be allowed to talk...!]] You should consider how the concreteists in your group have always reproached the Greens when it comes to power plant projects. Jobs: The Greens are destroying them! They don't want power plants! – Today you recognize... [[Abg. Nürnberger: What are you so excited about? You'll get another heart attack!]] Because this is annoying me, Mr Nürnberger! Their trade unionists have always acted as if the greens, the evils, the jobs are breaking. 50 billion Schilling Austrian taxpayers "put into the sand" now stands quite modestly in the "Presse", an economic newspaper, on the first side! Where is the excitement, Mr Bartenstein? Where's the excitement? [[Abg. Dispensers, (O Muhammad SAW): There it is!]] As an economist, you should have said: We put 50 billion schilling in the sand there, we should learn from it! Where is political responsibility? Where were you then? – I know you were not in politics at the time. But these are investments, Mrs Krammer, that you should think about! [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: You should think!]] You should think about what kind of policy you have done over the last decades. Mr Kier! They were responsible in the government at the time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You worked as an energy consultant, and I know that you took very advanced positions at the time. Only your policy was obviously just as toothless as your speech today. Fortunately, this is not always the case, Mr Kier, and I am very grateful for the fact that you are often making a stronger opposition policy than today. I'm sorry I had to criticize you today. I don't like it, but it had to be.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18251	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18272	Mr President. High house! Whoever builds high-voltage lines, who plans and builds a 380 kV route, today must be aware of the responsibility for nature conservation, but also of the people living in this area. I have no doubt about that. It has been said that it would be even more desirable to be able to build these trails economically underground even today. But we are still relatively far away from that. Therefore, such projects are at least about optimizations in the area of nature conservation and the protection of landscapes, but also about the prevention of excessive proximity to settlement areas, to houses. I would have personally been in favour of the Steiermärkische Part of the 380 kV management for the responsible company to carry out a voluntary environmental impact assessment. That was not the case, but you chose a different way. The study carried out by Joanneum Research is at least about close to this objective. But one has to recognize things if they comply with the legal regulations. From my point of view, this is certainly the case both in Burgenland and in Styria. The experts say uniformly – and so it is from my point of view – that it is useful to close a 380 kV ring in Austria. In fact, it is about something like a loophole, since a large part of this ring is already present. At the end of this debate, however, let me clear up with a fairy tale or at least try to clear up: that this 380 kV ring in Austria is the staunch attack of any hidden forces to transit nuclear current through Austria. I would like to say quite clearly that I do not know exactly what motives the EdF has for its commitment to Styria are in the foreground. It was certainly not a motive: the motive for transiting French nuclear power through Austria to Eastern Europe somewhere. This makes no sense in the economic back and in the front. Mr Wabl! I would recommend that you give more thought to the development of the market, or what is always in the foreground. Mr Wabl! You can certainly remember the debate and the reflections, replacement current from Austria, from Voitsberg to Krško. This failed, in particular, in the price proposals that stood in the room, and in what the Slovenians and Croatians would have been willing to pay. But they also failed to ensure that the necessary cable capacities would not be available. When it comes to criticizing Mochovce and Bohunice, I am the first to do so. But the 380 kV line without Stupava is technically unable to transmit electricity, which is not even offered. This is a fairy tale. There is no point in continuing this debate here at all. That's what you think, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of parts of the opposition – we heard from Mr Kier today – no one at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18317	I have a speech from Mr Dr Kier. The remaining speaking time of the Liberal Forum is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18339	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You don't need to get nervous, I won't stop you for long. But if you use something someone has said completely twisted, Mr Wabl – I tell you that quite honestly – just to be funny. That's what I'm talking about, I really want to tell you. I said clearly to you: If you connect the 380 kV line with these schine arguments, that's terrible. Politics without expertise is not fair and is not fun. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can't help it if the government happens to be on projects that anyone who is dealing with energy policy simply cannot refuse. This includes the 380 kV ring. Mrs Langthaler, too, is insurrectioning herself again, because she simply means: Small is good. I also believe that small fields and decentralisation are needed. But if you have no backbone in a system – that backbone called "380 kV-ring" – you can flatten your windwheels. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's naïve, that's really a back-on-the-tree, believe me! I was in the energy industry and learned it from the inside; after that I was critical from outside! We took the prognosis of the union back then. For the Reichraminger Hintergebirge we have withdrawn the energy efficiency, and today there is a nature reserve. They already wanted to build there – do you understand me? We have always said: Lambach's a fool. We've always said: Freudnau is an interesting project, but why do we need it now? – It’s oversized, it’s too expensive, and it won’t count. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: There will not be this 380 kV line!]] If You're putting something different here, just because you think you could run cheap business, I'd like to tell you: I'm not going to get rid of material positions, even if others might be more popular, Mr Wabl! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the EdF participates in the EStAG, it doesn't make me rejoice. I said here, from this pult, with today's day: The interlocutory company has been asleep because it has refused to bring its STEG participation into the EStAG. But you probably don't even know what that is. They do not know that the combined company has hydropower plants in the Styria, and if it had brought them into the Styrian energy stock company, it would have been a singular supplier, so that the Council of State Paierl would not have left anything else. But because the ÖVP in Styria did not want the composite company – as it is a federal company – to be able to participate, it failed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] This is, of course, a scandal. Do you understand? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that the country's princes are doing Duodez policy, wanting to stay among themselves, and probably only having taken care that the EdF has no influence on personnel policy, so that one can continue to make its personnel policy in the Styrian energy company, and that private energy supply companies in Styria – Fritzberg and as they are all called – have simply seen that they can stay on the cake and earn on the monopoly so that they can continue to make party funding for the ÖVP with their private corporate profits: [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's a premise!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Everything right!]] That's the reality. Do you understand me? And whoever knows all this, Mr Wabl, it is not easy to be mocked so cheaply by this speaker's chair here. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a premise!]] It's too serious for that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Stay real!]] There is a lot to be said about energy policy, and it's all in trouble. We know just as well as you do, Mr Wabl. But that's why you can't get caught up in a question like that of the 380 kV line and say: Because I'm up to this evil now, I'm going to reject it. That's your policy, but it's not our liberal policy. Stay on the trees! That's all I'm saying. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18492	Next word: Mrs Langthaler. The remaining speaking time is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18513	Mr President. I hope that 3 minutes will be enough to dissuade what Mr Kier, in particular, said at the end of the day. – I am surprised at this cheap polemic, Mr deputies! This has nothing to do with back-to-the-trees or a pre-influenced position. I actually dare to make a bet with some of you here. I am relatively sure that this 380 kV line, as it is planned, will not come, for a simple reason: not for ecological reasons, not because the composite society is now suddenly so ecological, but because it has no money for it and because it would be one of many projects that would be included in the list of so-called beached investments. Mr Wabl pointed out that 50 billion Schilling was talking about. In reality, it is much more, but these are the official figures reported in Brussels. For those who do not know what stranded investments are after EU definition: These are the investments made by the E-Economie from the last decades, which have been made due to political pressure and against industrial logic. 50 billion are now officially reported, but in reality the amounts are much higher. The first figures were 100 billion schilling. They concerned power plant projects, but also management projects that contradicted not only every business logic, but also every energy policy logic. Everyone – even in expert hearings here in this House – has confirmed that, for security of supply, even in southern Burgenland or Styria, this 380 kV ring line is not needed – except for you, Madame Krammer, in the south of Burgenland, five alums are to be installed. All right, then maybe! But that's an over-dimension, as if you were driving on a gravel road with the latest Ferrari by Schumacher, for example. [[Abg. Zweytick: Get back down to the ground!]] It is not necessary for security of supply, neither for existing industry nor for new investments. This is not necessary, and I am more than surprised that Mr Kier is speaking against better knowledge. It is simply incorrect that this ringing is necessary for the security of supply of households and for the security of supply of industrial enterprises, including new investments. I am relatively confident that – hopefully – the Board of Association also knows. For one must be clear in the future: If billions continue to be placed in the sand, then you really have to ask yourself when board members and supervisory councils are finally held responsible – and finally economically – if such misinvestment occurs. That is why I must say that, as an environmental speaker, I am quite in favour of this debate as a whole. I do not think that these projects will at all be realized for economic reasons, as they are currently planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18551	There is no one to speak on this point anymore. This debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1073. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this notice to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 1070 of the supplements. In this case too, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to show this by means of a sign. – The notice is made by a majority. That concludes this item on the agenda. 22. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Helmut Peterand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Energy Charge Act, Art. 62 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, amended (1071 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18614	We'll get to the 22nd. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. I don't think there's a word message either. That is why we can vote on it in a moment. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 1071. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this information show this. – The National Council has decided unanimously to take note of the matter. I now turn to Amendment No 425/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18666	We shall now proceed to the vote to be taken after the end of the agenda, on the request to the Committee on Justice for reporting on the motion for a resolution 464/A (E) by Members. Stadler and comrades concerning a package of measures aimed at comprehensive protection of children up to the 6th. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have made this request for a deadline by the honourable Member. Stadler gave their consent to a sign in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where is he, the colleague Stadler?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Stadler's not here either!]] – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-02-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00109_d7e18715	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 686/A to 695/A. Questions 3677/J to 3718/J were also raised. Finally, a question has also been raised to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 26th. February 1998, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed. Thank you many times.
