ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2138	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you. I ask you to take the seats and open the 130. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 127. Meeting of 16 March 1990 It is therefore considered approved that it has remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies on June. I'm sorry, Mrs. Ing. Langthaler, Mag. Trattner, Mag. Barmüller, Wenitsch, Dr. Haider and Mag. Schweitzer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2172	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2305	I should like to make it clear that the Members of this House are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Prinzhorn and Comrades asked for the written question 4556/J by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorn and Mr comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on tax records and red and black tax gifts. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called upon to proceed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2329	I would also like to say that Mrs Gabriela Moserbe has requested that the Health Committee report on the 736/A (E) proposal concerning precautionary measures in the field of the comprehensive installation of mobile communications terminals be limited to a period of six months. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. In this context, a request has also been made for a debate which is sufficiently supported and which must therefore be accepted. This debate will be held in accordance with § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be carried out following the negotiation of the urgent question. The vote on the motion for a deadline will be taken immediately after the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2360	I have the proposal to sum up points 1 and 2 and 6 to 11 of today's agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2381	Let's go into the agenda. I declare that consensus on the resolution of today's agenda has been reached in the President-in-Office's Conference as follows: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been envisaged, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. This requires the approval of the National Council. I therefore ask: On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1211 of the Supplements): Treaty of Amsterdam amending the Treaty on European Union, the Treaties establishing the European Communities and some related acts and Final Acts (1253 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 791/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (1255 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2438	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the discussions. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2469	Mr President. High house! The Treaty of Amsterdam provides, among other things, that the national states should, in part, move significantly to the level of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now one can be of the opinion of the speakers of the two government parties, the Foreign Minister, who says that it is even desirable that this be done, or of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, who also believe that it is desirable that this be done, then one will probably be enthusiastic about this Treaty for this reason. Mr. Schieder! How can it be explained, however, that at the summit in Cardiff, the two supporters of the European Union and the dynamic process within the European Union, namely the German Chancellor Kohl and the French President Chirac, have put a position paper on the table in which they support the strengthening of the nation states? – This mentions a directive as a particularly dramatic example on the issue of book trade. The German book trade strongly complains that the European Union is interfering with the rights of the national states and that it is taking the decision of nonsensical regulations – I do not have to quote the banana curvature directive and all that has already been mentioned in the past. Ladies and gentlemen! These are contradictions – contradictions that have existed since the beginning of this European Union, since the Maastricht Treaty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These contradictions are continued by the Amsterdam Treaty: Here is a work of contract, there are political statements of intent, and these are diametrically apart. The fact that the whole thing has a background that can also be sought in the German election campaign is clear. Nevertheless, the contradiction remains upright. We do not understand how the most important men of the European Union can explain that they are in favour of what we liberals have always called for, namely that the sovereignty rights of the national states are not further reduced. They even go one step further and say that they are in favour of giving back rights to the national states. Then, in future, the European Union would no longer have to decide unanimously in the Council, but by qualified majority. How's that going? – These are massive contradictions arising from this contract work, which is simply seen to be carried around the citizen’s nose. [[Abg. Disrepute.]] But yes, Mr Arbitrator! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to give you two more examples; with two really dramatic examples, I would like to undermine my argument. One is the so-called transit contract. Remember: The then Minister of Transport and the Federal Chancellor and the head of state of Tyrol were waving around with a work of contract when it came to the issue of consent to accession to the European Union in the context of the 1994 referendum. All the problems solved!, it said: We have an epochal contract, Tyrol will not become the doorstep of the European Union, we will be able to control the toll at the Brenner, we will be able to determine it independently and sovereignly, we have agreed to ecopoints. But now it turns out that this transit contract is no longer worth the paper on which it stands, ladies and gentlemen. Now Mr. Landeshuptmann Weingartner is going to block himself against himself at the Brenner. No one understands that, you'll be able to admit it to me! At the time, in 1994, we warned against the fact that this treaty will not solve the problems. We have warned against selling people an X for a U. But today it turns out that even the government representatives say: Yes, that has always been clear to us, so we demonstrate against ourselves! I hope that what we said in 1994 has already been forgotten by the Austrian and especially the Tyrolean population! The second example concerns the question of reducing contribution payments. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly colleagues from my group. Remember what y'all said it was impossible to do what Margaret Thatcher asked: We're because our money back, she said. For Austria this is impossible, unthinkable. But now we read, we hear and see in the media that the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria stands up and says in the wind shadow of Mr. Kohl – admittedly a broad wind shadow –: We are for the reduction of net contribution payments! – Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, people are presented with an X for a U. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When we have said freedom of speech, we are in favour of a reduction in payments from Austria to the European Union in the post-negotiations of a badly negotiated Treaty of Accession, this was an issue which was put under the fall of glass. It's impossible, it's called. Her own Finance Minister said at the time: Impossible!Use custom fonts; Her then Federal Chancellor said: It is impossible to see how few Europeans are free! Mr Schieder, is your Federal Chancellor today a bad European, just because he suddenly discovers that he is also Austrian? Is Your Chancellor, therefore, is a bad European because he has to wait until the German Chancellor has formed an opinion, the same as his Finance Minister Waigel, who has always thought that the contribution payments should be reduced in the future, since the Germans do not want to finance 60 percent of the budget of the European Union? We said we didn't play with that at the time, negotiated, that's a conditional no. If you get reasonable results, you can talk to us. But you have a ticker period of two to four years until you do what we would have liked before and what we would have saved the Austrian population. – Ladies and gentlemen, these are the problems of European integration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Schieder, you can't abdicate this. It is objective for anyone who has a memory that lasts a little over five years, to understand that things have been played out in the way I am now describing them to you. The five-year term – because I am just five years old – is also significant in the Amsterdam Treaty for a further reduction of sovereignty for the Member States: After five years, ladies and gentlemen, it will be so that Member States will no longer be able to bring directly into the Council initiatives which have the right of initiative, no: The right of initiative shall be transferred to the Commission in five years' time. The Commission, elected by no one, will have no democratic legitimacy, will have the right of initiative in the future. And the right of initiative is not entirely insignificant in the European Union. In the future, Member States will have to knock on the Commission in order to be able to place their wishes there, so that the Commission then tends to carry on either the wishes as initiatives or simply shoving them. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are familiar with the position paper of the national conference under the chairmanship of Mr Klasnic on Easter enlargement. Mr Schieder, I do not know if you know the letter from Mr Pirzio-Biroli – this is the cabinet leader of Commissioner Fischler. He has informed his cabinet manager: Here you have a declaration of the heads of state from Austria; do with what you want. – This is the way of dealing, ladies and gentlemen, literally rereadable, we have this letter. There it says: Do whatever you want. – The Commission is not interested in this. And this Commission will in future give you the right of initiative and decision-making responsibility, what will and what will happen in the European Union in the future? Finally, Mr Khol, one of the most important laws will be passed today, one of the most important constitutional novels in this decade, if not even since the Second Republic existed, especially since the Act of Neutrality: the cold abolition of the Neutrality Act. Not that we are opposed to abolishing neutrality because it has fulfilled its purpose. Mr Khol once said that she should be given to the storehouse of the Hofburg to the crown jewels. No, it is done today in such a way that it is abolished coldly and the population is still declared that the law of neutrality remains intact. The truth is that today a law is to be passed – I quote literally – with which fighting efforts to deal with crisis are possible in the future. This is the new definition for war participation, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it looks like. That's what you should tell the people, and you should involve them. It is a decision of the Austrians whether we abolish neutrality or not. We are in favour of abolishing them, but the decision on them must be taken by the Austrian people in the context of a referendum. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is no use, Mr Schieder, if your clubman in the Constitutional Committee states that he is based on the principle of constitutional interpretation. The next speaker, Mr Khol von der ÖVP, has just said that he assumes, by the way, in accordance with Austrian law, that the Lex-posterior rule applies here, i.e., the latter regime, the younger one denotifies the older regime. This means that in future, of course, the Council will be able to agree with the Federal Chancellor in agreement with the Foreign Minister or the Foreign Minister in agreement with the Federal Chancellors for participation in war operations, ladies and gentlemen. There have also been some in your group – this is what I read in today's edition of the "Kurier" – that resistance is forming. I can understand these resistances. For the Linz Peace Workshop – not exactly an organization close to me but rather to my colleague Cap – invites us in an urgent appeal, in an open letter not to sign this treaty, not to decide on this Constitutional Law Novelle. Exceptionally, the peace workshop Linz is right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, they kill the neutrality through the back door and tell the Austrians that neutrality remains intact. Mr Kostelka assumes that the Council will always have no say in the future because of the neutrality law. This is, of course, contrary to Mr Khol and the Foreign Minister. This is not an absolute No, it will not take place like that, Mr Schieder, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens. The Greens know that this is the case. This will take place in such a way that in the future it will be very closely observed where combat operations take place. The Austrians will, of course, be involved, because the courage to assume there from the principle of constitutional interpretation – the quote of Kostelka – is simply not present. And the will for this is also not available at the ÖVP, you know that very well. If the Foreign Minister in the Council will have to vote on the use of war, he will, of course, focus on what the Germans are doing, what other states are doing, and the opinion of the Austrian Parliament does not matter to them. You know that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Khol has said that clearly. It assumes that the Lex-posterior rule applies that the Austrian position in the European Union will, of course, not be interpreted according to the Austrian constitutional situation, but according to this Treaty, according to the Treaty of Amsterdam, the EU Treaty, the Maastricht Treaty and the new regulation which is being adopted here. – request Kostelka, Khol. In conclusion: This is your sluggish approach to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, which can only be read from the fact that you also regard the constitutional obligation to label any single constitutional provision of the Treaty as such, so that it is understandable – a regulation, Mr. Schiederer, which was decided under Bruno Kreisky – once again. It is assumed that the Austrians are told what constitutional law is, what constitutional change is, what is still a constitution in this country, but they are kept by colleagues Khol, saying that the Austrian Constitution is no longer a matter of law, because EU law is in any case prejudicial to Austrian constitutional law. This is an attitude, ladies and gentlemen, which we clearly reject. This will be expressed by both of us today's amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2623	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Alois Mock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2647	Ladies and gentlemen! If we are in the process of ratification today and are to decide on it, I think there can only be a positive reaction from the National Council, because it represents another step in the consolidation of cooperation, a further step in integration and a further step towards securing the brute peace in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We can talk about this for a long time, Mr Stadler, but the question arises. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A referendum! We demand a referendum on this! Enter the people!]] – Neutrality has been decided here in the House with the votes of the National Council, we have assumed responsibility in the public and are continuing to make decisions on this basis. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] You can't say, if something is very pleasant and desired: Yes, this is what we are doing here in this House!, and then, if something is sensitive and controversial, the decision to "move" the people as you want to do according to your remarks. There is a division of the task, and we must take it seriously! This is my view, especially because 66% of Austrians have opted for accession to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! On the letter of the Green Group: The basic problem lies in the following question: [[Call to the liberals: An X for a U!]] It is not just about neutrality, we are fighting for security for our country and for the freedom of its citizens. It's about security – I have to repeat that. The question of instrumentalisation is raised. Neutrality was an instrument in a certain situation, but the situation has changed completely. You have to ask yourself the question again and again: What strengthens our security? – No, I spoke about the development of neutrality. [[Abg. Young: That's right, but not neutrality. That's the problem!]] She's experiencing a constant change. Legally, it is a weak instrument in itself. Neutrality was a great political idea in 1955, especially in order to avoid the division of the country and to remove the occupation troops. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes! D’accord!]] We agree on this. There were then constant changes on this issue. We said: Neutrality according to the Swiss model, however, a few months later we joined the Council of Europe, two years later the UN – Switzerland not. We have constantly exploited the possibilities of movement, autonomy in the interests of our country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: All right, too!]] That's our job, and we should do it now. Neutrality is changing, and we must always look at what corresponds to the interests of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question of neutrality is even more important internationally than nationally. We must therefore also take account of the developments which have taken place since then, ladies and gentlemen. There have been effects and follow-up effects. When the conflict with Iraq broke out because of the aggression against Kuwait, the Austrian Federal Government allowed American aircraft to fly over Austrian territory to combat this aggression. This was first criticized; later the Swiss followed. We have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by conventional development in the interests of our country. Neutrality has always been an instrument and will retain the instrumental character, but the goal has always been independence, independence, security of the country and freedom of its citizens. That's what we need to stick to. I am therefore surprised that there is no dialogue on this issue. One should continue the dialogue between the government parties – even if there are differences – and between government and opposition. I think this is very important. After 1945, it has succeeded in overcoming party political contradictions on very important issues; therefore, it must be possible to continue today, even if elections are in the open next year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I understand, colleague of the Greens, when you say that you are concerned about the existence of neutrality. They say: Our group sees this silent abolition of neutrality by the Federal Government with great concern. - The silent abolition. However, what I have now listed to you was without exception our decisions. We move in an international habit area. At the time when it was said that one can also become a member of the United Nations as a neutral state, it has not been said that neutrality has become weaker. In 1946, it was originally impossible for Sweden to become a member – incompatible! Then it became possible. That is, collective security, solidarity has become more and more a priority – there is always an up and down. Of course, there are also setbacks in the development, see the overall development of integration. We should take this into account and not make it a contradiction that does not exist. One can discuss what guarantees the security of a country located in the middle of Europe, just a few hundred kilometers away from new explosions, but should not always repeat automatically: Neutrality, neutrality. The question is also the following: What happens to our country in the war? – It used to be called: Neutrality means that you must not prefer, treat everyone the same. Today, the neutral is reproached if he has not attacked the bad and has not accepted the good as a partner because he was just neutral. This is how things change, how Sweden and Switzerland behaved in the war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should continue to assume the following basis: First: Our task is to act in the interest of the people. Neutrality has to serve man and not man of neutrality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] International law has to serve man and not man to international law. That too must be said clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Wabl: That is a question of whether we are a democratic republic!]] [[Further calls.]] - No, we use the room for movement. No, we're moving in this room, I told you earlier, Mr Scheibner. So we insist that international law has the essence of the state of the country and not the other way round. This is not dogmatic. The possibilities of movement provided by international law, including the right of neutrality, should be placed in the service of the country and not vice versa. And this is undoubtedly an opportunity for the Treaty of Amsterdam. [[Abg. Wabl: Then let the people decide! Why don't you let the people decide?- Oh, my God!]] - Because we have a constitution, a division of tasks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: But you promised!]] You will repeat this again and again, even if it is not true, Mr Wabl, you know it very well. – No, I said very clearly: [[Abg. Wabl: You have said for yourself that there will be a referendum!]] [[Further calls.]] This is a task of Parliament, I am in favour of letting Parliament decide on how neutrality is handled. People have told me very often: If it's pleasant, you decide if it's unpleasant, we have to decide! And I don't like this accusation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, the Treaty of Amsterdam represents a new opportunity, particularly in connection with Kosovo, ladies and gentlemen. There almost everything is repeated as it was in Bosnia – almost everything! [[Abg. Young: Why did you not allow the overflight for the Germans if Kosovo is a problem?]] More rapid response was made to rapid threats. Only today could you hear again: The attacks on Kosovians, on the civilian population, continue as before. We must act very quickly so that we do not experience the same thing that happened in Vukovar, namely mass murder, so that it does not happen the same as in Srebrenica. Once the time has passed – as now – to find a generally balancing peace based on autonomous regulations, there is a danger. Ladies and gentlemen! It may then finally be so that the Albanians no longer give up until they get independence until they have a grand albania. And this is the greatest danger there can be there – for all neighbouring countries! [[Abg. Oillinger: Europe could have responded for 15 years! For 15 years!]] Yes, but this shows us that we need to learn from it, so that we cannot find ourselves, Mr Oillinger. Let us learn from what happened in Bosnia and let us do better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore very grateful for the fact that, on all his visit to Kosovo, the Foreign Minister emphasizes the importance of the situation in Kosovo, out of moral solidarity with the people who live there, out of the commitment to peace and also with regard to our country, because this area is only 400 kilometres away from our southern border. Let's take things seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! With all due respect: Pilz, who was against every military intervention, imponed me more than you, because when he was on the spot and saw what piggy, which mass murders happened there, he said that one must intervene, also by military means. – It is a great achievement of a person who has other principles when he says: I must give priority to people, not to any principle, but to a party programme, which should also be respected. You have to do that now. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Müller.]] Even in 1955, neutrality was controversial – you know it very well – and still, it has been found to a large extent. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be inspired by the spirit of 1955. We ask: What is now serving our country, our people, its security and its freedom? Then, too, the reputation of the democratic institutions will increase more than it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2911	Mr Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e2932	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are now negotiating under the adoption of the Treaty of Amsterdam and, as it is stated in the agenda, accompanying constitutional laws. In reality – and this has made my previous speaker very clear – we are, however, negotiating the abolition of neutrality under this shamed name. Member of the European Parliament. I think it is absolutely legitimate to discuss this. It is precisely the question you have asked, namely: What does security mean?, can and should be discussed. Only: We have not discussed this because the Social Democratic Party claims that nothing is changing, and because you yourself, Foreign Minister A. D. – I was there at the time – have also taken the following position at a Federal Congress of the Greens: If it ever comes to such an extent that the core existence of neutrality is affected, then the Austrian people should be on it! [[Abg. Young: It's already out of focus!]] – A de-coreing process has already occurred. Member of the European Parliament. They say that Austria is already in stages away from the previous understanding of neutrality. Yes, that is true, and the Greens have each acted against it. I remember December 1990, that bombs had already fallen on Baghdad and we were still discussing the easing of the war material transit regulations. It's gone on. The Greens have always warned and warned against it. I ask you here and today, even in the light of the events that have taken place since then: Is the environment of Austria, has the environment become safer or more insecure? Above all: Who were those who contributed in order to emancipate a crisis? – These were those who went preventively, such as in the case of Macedonia. There is no peace in Bosnia, Mr Foreign Minister, you can convince yourself of this in all places. It is now being upgraded to secure the results of ethnic cleansing. I do not think that the current path for our country is right. But one thing is totally unacceptable: that it is so secretive, quiet and quiet, through the back door! The fact that there has not even been a proper review of the matter, let alone a consultation of the Austrian population with this question. Once again, I would like to make the following request, especially to the representatives of the Socialist Group: Additional application in accordance with § 84(2) of the MMag Deputies. Dr. Petrovic, Dr. Van der Bellen and friends on the conduct of a referendum in accordance with Art. 43 B-VG The National Council wants to decide: Mr Kostelka's motion for a resolution (791/A) by Dr Khol, as amended by the Committee's report 1255, is subject to a referendum. There were political commitments from the chancellor, from you, from the vice chancellor – and today not even the text of this law is that way. You don't want to do that. I'm really asking you: What does security mean? Following the referendum on Austria's accession to the EU, a number of Greens had a certain advance of confidence for the government. We felt that, on the basis of this very convincing vote by the Austrian people, the Federal Government would be strongly committed to implementing this European Union as an environmental and social union. That would have been the most important contribution to security for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you: What's happened since then? Don't you think Mochovce is an extremely insecure factor? – Built with German money, built with French money in a poor state! Where was European solidarity with Austria? Where was solidarity from our neighboring country Germany? – State loans have flown into this nuclear power station, which does not comply with the Western European standard! I ask you: What happened with regard to genetic engineering? – In a small area, with maize, we were able to reach an import ban due to a common national effort. And what else? – The EU has consistently turned to Austria. We think that this is a security risk! The transit issue has already been addressed. I think you will have followed the debate that took place in this context in the German Bundestag. The Green Group has demonstrated solidarity with Austrian safety and environmental interests. It was the conservatives who claimed Austria to break the contract and the departure of European values, namely free movement of goods. This is insecure to our people and this country! However, an even greater uncertainty is unemployment. 18 million people without work! We on this continent know what unemployment means and what it can mean. Member of the European Parliament. Talk to colleagues in Germany, they will confirm: In rich Berlin there are construction sites where construction troops from southern Europe are used with an hourly wage of 1 D-Mark. This is an insecurity factor which must be abolished, and that is urgent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been a strange distortion of concept: Whenever you want to implement one of your ideological demands, you start twisting the terms. Solidarity, as I understand it, as it was actually understood by social democracy in the past, means that it is not a responsibility towards social and financial weaknesses. Solidarity also means support for poorer countries, for poorer regions. Solidarity meant concrete solidarity for Austria, in the process of civil EU enlargement with the reform states, to support them in the construction of the economy, in the construction of an intact social fabric. That is solidarity! They want to reinterpret neutrality at once and understand solidarity at once, but this has never meant solidarity. The opposite of neutrality is partiality, that is, not to stand out from a conflict. Member of the European Parliament. Partyobmann Schüssel is to be read: Not neutral in Kosovo! – We have never understood our neutrality in such a way that neutrality means indifference to human rights violations. Even a Bruno Kreisky was not neutral when it came to the rights of the Palestinians, and that was compatible with an active neutrality policy! Only: Austria has dropped this active neutrality policy! [[Abg. Wabl places a poster in the meeting room on the wall, behind the bureau, on which the Federal Constitutional Act of 26. October 1955, BGBl. No. 211, on the neutrality of Austria.]] [[Calls.]] I demand an active neutrality policy in the sense... – What this means is easy to explain. [[Abg. May. Steindl: What are you doing?]] This is the text of the Federal Constitutional Act of 26. October 1955 – always neutral. I believe that a Vienna city newspaper, the "Falter", does not write wrongfully that you have secretly, silently and quietly turned it into "nothing neutral". And you have not even had the courage to address this openly and to discuss it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Neutrality, especially with regard to Kosovo, could have meant a lot: no excuse for human rights violations, very probably a responsibility of Belgrade for these violations. Neutrality in the context of Kosova could have meant discussing possible participation in the OSCE for Rest Yugoslavia. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I don’t know why you put into such unrest the text of a Constitutional Act that you have not formally withdrawn. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Neutrality in relation to Kosova could have been called: special rights for the persecuted. Neutrality in connection with Kosova, for example, meant welcoming students from Kosovo, because they are discriminated against, automatically, favourably at the Austrian universities and universities. It could also have been called: a civil embargo in many areas and international jurisdiction also for those who have committed war crimes. That also requires Catholic youth. It calls for a peaceful declaration of conflict and also calls for Austria to do so. I ask you once again to remember: In 1989 Kosovo was granted autonomy. What were the reactions of Austrian foreign policy? What happened? How many human rights violations have happened since then? The population in Kosova remained peaceful for a long time. President Rugova pleaded for peace. What's happened since then? – Kosovo Albanians were in charge. You didn't mind. It was my colleague, Terezija Stoisits, who protested against it in 1994. I also ask you, Mr State Secretary: 23 Kosovo Albanians sit in Schubhaft in Austria. Do you think that's fair? Do you think that's neutral? Do you think it's a contribution to peacekeeping when you separate families, people are being deported? – I believe that Austria is also infringing its neutrality at the level of human rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll ask you a question. Subject: Common foreign and security policy. Faith Do you really think that in a Europe where environmental and social policy is far from being of proper importance, you can continue to offer Europol, NATO and WEU "security" – under quotations? Faith You really believe that those people – and their numbers are getting bigger and bigger – who fall into poverty, have no work, have no future, will remain calm? Faith Do you really think that is the Europe that young people want?: Highly equipped to the teeth, at the border a kind of new iron curtain, data systems in which all citizens are caught without legal protection mechanisms. Is this the free, ecological and social Europe you wanted to join in 1994? Is this our dream, the future utopia? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] I say the following to you: These concepts are absolutely inappropriate to ensure security on a permanent basis. And I'm asking you: Why should it not be that there are states like Austria, which, because of their historical and geographical position, carry out special mediation tasks? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] . Yes, Mr Wurmitzer, I believe that this concept would achieve more security for Austria with this Green concept. And I suggest that you are not prepared to discuss it. They're the government parties. They have not provided an option report. Why don't you put something forward instead of running this tactic of a discrepancy disassembly? Clubobmann Khol is certainly right when he says that neutrality has at least fallen in the field of the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Exactly!]] I ask you: Why should we not discuss this in all the public and in the light of this Federal Constitutional Law? - No, we don't. [[The speaker points to that of Abg. Wabl attached poster]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We do that, Mrs. Petrovic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There is no public place but Parliament!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Then you also call it so, then you also carry out a review process on it! I say the following to you: They have brought in this law, which is truly at the foundations of this state, in the form of a motion for a resolution together with Klubobmann Kostelka. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An initiative proposal!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A motion for a resolution goes to the government!]] An initiative proposal, yes. In any case, they have not carried out a proper review procedure. I ask you: Why? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Amsterdam contract has been reviewed!]] [[Abg. Wabl: From whom was he reviewed, by you?]] However, the Treaty of Amsterdam does not provide for Austria to commit itself to combat action. In fact, the Amsterdam Treaty would have allowed it to remain always neutral. You know, you know the corresponding articles. It would have been possible, in particular, to obtain Austria neutrally by making a reservation. But that's not exactly what was sought. It is a federal constitution law with which you partially repeal the Neutrality Act. I asked the Constitutional Service and also Mr Bundeskanzler, who obviously cannot take part in this debate today, why not even a proper review procedure has been carried out. This is something that should actually be going and going on with every important law: Referral to the important socio-political groups in this country. The Federal Chancellor did not answer me, with no tone, with no line. I received a letter from the head of the Constitutional Service section with the best greetings in which he tells me the following about my neutrality concerns: On your statement that the proposed law against the National Council is in the form of an own-initiative proposal, from the point of view of the Federal Chancellor's Office, I can only say that it is one of the Federal Constitutions in kind. In paragraph 41, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 B-VG provides for the possibility of the legislative initiative. - Quote. This is a very, very lapidares statement. It has already been known to us before that this is a possibility of the legislative initiative. My question, which certainly cannot answer the Constitutional Service, which the Federal Chancellor or the State Secretary can answer, is: Why go You're so political? – If you already believe that tanks, defense missiles and active participation in a military pact with the possibility of fighting missions offer more security than the role of an international mediator, then imagine this discussion! Do not withdraw from the Constitutional Service's officials, but comment on why in my view you really say goodbye to neutrality in a way that is vague and unworthy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3184	Mrs Petrovic's request for a referendum is based on the nature of the request. 43 of the Federal Constitution and is therefore admissible. He shall be voted on in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, § 84, after the third reading. I would like to inform Mr Wabl of the following: Deputies! If the purpose of your action was to provoke the President of the House to remove the Neutrality Act from the Chamber, I am sorry to have to disappoint you. I will not fulfill this wish. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3222	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll come back to neutrality later. I too am glad that the Neutrality Act is here in the Chamber. It is recognized that it is an important law, but not, as the Greens claim in their letter, a component of the Austrian federal constitution, because this was not the case in time, as at the date "26. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: You can also perform extensions!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this Treaty, i.e. the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, the Austrian Parliament is taking its first step and Europe is taking its third step towards closer integration into the EU. This is almost the third amendment, which provides a substantial extension of the subject matter of the founding contracts. Following the conclusion of the Single European Act of more than a decade ago, with which the concept of the internal market has been realized or started, after the conclusion of the Maastricht Treaty five years ago, which initiated the establishment of the European Union, even if many scholars still call it undetermined, the third amending Treaty, the Treaty of Amsterdam, is now taking an essential step towards a European Union consolidation. [[Abg. Oils: Subsidiarity!]] This Treaty brings more fundamental rights, the gradual development of the area of freedom, security and justice, the integration of Schengen Treaties into the EU, more external solidarity through the common foreign and security policy – I am still talking about this issue – and more solidarity within through employment issues, social policy, the determination of non-discrimination and other fundamental rights and transparency. It contributes to better living conditions for citizens in Europe through the provisions on the environment, health and consumer protection. It also brings a certain degree of democratisation - I say a certain amount - through the provisions on the powers of the institutions, in particular on the co-decision of the European Parliament, and flexibility in the sense of enhanced cooperation between groups and Member States. [[Abg. Oils: Bravo!]] Dr. Thun-Hohenstein refers to the Treaty of Amsterdam in his book on the same – I can only recommend the reading of this book to everyone because it is very helpful in understanding this contract – really not as a milestone, but as a "respectable stage of the European integration process". It points out, like many others, that the joy of integration of the founding age has already disappeared to a certain extent and that each of the 15 Member States is increasingly focusing on its own interests, which, of course, also has an impact on overall results. If I can bring a formulation of musils into the EU: The Treaty of Amsterdam is certainly disappointing, as measured by the European sense of reality, it represents a respectable progress, a step further along the way in the right direction that can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the centre of the debate so far, the question of neutrality and its designation has been raised here. Mr Stadler, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Stadler: Thank you for mentioning Bruno Kreisky. Bruno Kreisky is historically so important, so great that he – let me know – does not need an inappropriate enlargement by you. The question of the designation was not a merit of Kreisky, but rather a decision of the Constitutional Court of 1964 and measures that were subsequently taken. So this was done before the Kreisky government in 1970. However, I am still pleased with every attempt to honour Kreisky in this House. He truly deserved it with his historical greatness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In constitutional law already!]] I return to the question of neutrality, primarily to J. 7 – 17, if we use the new name. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] - No, I don't want to go into that too. You said that the Commission had a right of initiative. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] You've been wrong, because the right of initiative had it before. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No!]] If you look at it, you can find that it has already had the right of initiative before. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But now she gets it in general!]] No, she's had it before. Please check this! Now back to article 17. This article 17 deals with a few things: It is about the question of the Union's right of self-defense. It is also about possible fighting efforts and the merger of WEU and EU. And these three areas may also affect our neutrality. The first question is self-defense. This concerns the understanding of the EU as a whole and, as the new wording says, the following: Respect for the integrity of the Union in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter and reference to the external borders. In this regard, I do not think that those who take a comprehensive position, like Kohl and others, are wrong. I too have a great deal of understanding for the position that an attack on the Union for a Member State is something different than an attack on an aircraft of some NATO member north of the orbit of cancer for another NATO member. It's a pact. He was concerned about whether one – let's put it that way – wants to help the other friend when he is attacked. The Union is not concerned about whether we want to help Belgium if Brussels is to be attacked, but rather whether an attack on the European Parliament – to give a concrete example – is an attack on the institutions of the Union in the interconnectedness of the institutions of the European Union, and hence not only an attack on the country of Belgium, but also on each of the other 14 Member States. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Away from Neutrality!]] More important is the question of combat operations. Hiezu all wanted to put neutrality into play. [[Abg. Young: So you're for collective security?- Oh, my God!]] It is claimed that this would abolish what is not true. It is only about whether or not such a commitment is being made in the world or in Europe under a UN mandate or by OSCE decision. If this is not the case and it does not serve the self-defense of the Union, then – this is our view; even if the Treaty of Amsterdam opens up the possibility – a neutral country like Austria cannot use it, is not to use it and is therefore not to use it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why neutrality continues to exist, it is not restricted or abolished, it only reduces its scope, because if the Community of States is safeguarded by international law and acts in solidarity itself as the United Nations, then that no longer concerns neutrality. [[Abg. Wabl: Comrade Schieder is the Grand Master of Virtual Reality!]] In the event that you want to know whether we would be in favour of a referendum in the abolition of neutrality: From a legal point of view, however, I would also like to see a referendum carried out, but not at the time of the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam – you are simply asking for it to be possible to "debt" the Treaty of Amsterdam or its ratification by Austria in this way – but the time is before Austria's accession to a military alliance. I assume that Austria is also acting in accordance with neutrality in the European Union. In order to make it clear that this does not automatically constitute an authorisation at the third point, the merger with the WEU, in which one would no longer have to deal with Parliament, the additional request was submitted. This is the purpose of the additional amendment tabled by Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka. I think it is good that we take a clear attitude here: Solidarity, where it is clear by international law, and stick to our line where this is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3405	Mr Stadler has referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3432	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker said that I would have claimed that only with the Amsterdam Treaty would the right of initiative in the Council pass from the Member States to the Commission. [[Abg. Arbitrator: No, I didn't say the word "first"!]] – In any case, it has been understood in this way. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How he understood!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's not correcting something said!]] I'm putting it right: Article 67 of the Treaty states: After five years, the Council shall act on the basis of Commission proposals. The Commission shall examine any request made by a Member State to submit a proposal to the Council. That is to say, the right of initiative which the Member State and the Commission now have will only have the Commission in future, because after this transitional period of five years the Member State will have to call the Commission. And I have pointed out this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3507	This was a discussion contribution. The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3532	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder! You said you wanted clarity. In my opinion, you have only made one point clear, namely that it is clear to all of us that you do not want to tell the people the truth, the truth about what our constitutional situation really looks like and the international obligations arising from EU accession, and that, of course, Mr Schieder, you know that very well – at the latest since accession to the European Union, as a result of this accession, there is no place for serious international neutrality. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is also no longer a function and is no longer possible for an EU member country. Mr. Schieder! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! What we are blaming you is that you do not show this clarity in the public debate. They conceal the truth only because you promised the people before joining the EU something different than you are now able to comply with. At that time, it was said that neutrality is not affected by EU accession. You can interpret, as you wish, ladies and gentlemen, clearly that neutrality is an instrument of international law. This means that it only works if internationally recognised rules are complied with, but there is no room for self-interpretations and self-definitions. A international instrument is only effective if it is generally recognised. To what extent our neutrality is recognized, you can see exactly when you cross the borders of Austria, namely, no longer at all. Mr Mock said that the Treaty of Amsterdam would be another step towards ensuring the peaceful peace in Europe. I don't know what step that should be. If one considers how far theory and practice separate, then I do not have this hope. In theory, through this Treaty of Amsterdam you have made a commitment to the common foreign and security policy and to the further development of the common defence. The WEU is to be built up as an instrument of the EU. The practice, Mr Mock, unfortunately looks quite different. How was the European security component in Bosnia? How was it in Albania? – Afterwards it was said that this would have been a shame for Europe and one would have missed a chance. What is it like in Kosovo now? – Even in this context, nothing has been learned from the mistakes of the past. On the paper one confesses to a common security identity, but in practice one cannot even agree on economic embargoes. In this respect, too, the double mortality of Austrian politics is evident. They decide today and have also decided in the past that Austria can participate in combat operations abroad with the Austrian Federal Army, but for the NATO maneuver in Albania you have not even granted the over-flying permits for German aircraft, ladies and gentlemen! You have refused this minimum act of solidarity in this conflict! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No one can understand. On the one hand, you decide to engage in fighting by the Federal Army, on the other hand you are unable to put this act of solidarity with other EU Member States. Mr. Schieder! They decide completely hidden and shamed a constitutional law. Not even the Federal Chancellor is present today in this important act of legislation. It's all to read: There are opportunities for decisions on peacekeeping tasks and fighting efforts to restore peace, including peace-building measures and the like. – It is not even the National Council that needs to be discussed, but it is enough if two ministers agree on this. Peace-making measures, the struggles of the Austrian federal army – all of this is supposed to be compatible with neutrality!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! One should really look at the conditions for a permanently neutral country. Read only in the standard works of international law, which is written in this regard, e.g. in the "Handbuch für Volksrecht", in which it reads: In particular, the permanent Neutral must not conclude military alliances, including with other neutral states, or agreements on collective security. Furthermore, the constantly neutral in its foreign and economic policy must not belong to a customs and economic union if it could thereby be in fact dependent or in a conflict contrary to its obligations of ordinary neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen! With the other aspects of neutrality according to the Swiss model, I do not want to deal with any more, because the situation is clear that this is no longer to be observed. But only as far as these two points are concerned can you not seriously claim that they are still to be observed by the decisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam and also by this constitutional change. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have made it quite clear: We stand for an open and clear position. We believe that the Austrian security policy of the future cannot take place in an isolated position, but together in an alliance with the other states, especially in an alliance that has the best organizational structures, such as NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! But this must not be a sluggish thing, it must not happen in a way by the population, but it must be an open dialogue with the population. There must also be an opportunity for the population to vote on it. Mr. Mock! This is not a passing away from responsibility. You know very well that such a referendum can only take place after a decision of the National Council. We don't want to push ourselves to the point of responsibility. We say a clear yes to this common security policy, but after this decision we also want to deal with the population. It cannot be accepted by us that on the one hand the population will be precipitated, that everything will remain with the old one, but on the other hand you will decide to make massive changes to the Constitution under the supervision of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3619	The next speaker is Mrs Martina Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3640	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the question of neutrality, which has been discussed. Mr Schieder said: It only reduces its area of application. – If you can break this sentence on the tongue, that means that neutrality in Austria has actually lost its "space" quite slowly. If so, I wonder why the Federal Government has so far not been able to draw up an option report. That's really unfortunate. If a reduction in the area of application of neutrality is to be discussed, we should definitely ask the Federal Government to present the option report so that the security needs of the Austrian population can be met, to a reasonable extent. We believe that a common foreign and security policy within the EU would allow us to guarantee security for Austria through accession to the WEU, but the government does not take this discussion, and we think this is particularly bad. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now I would like to refer to the Treaty of Amsterdam. There is today the first opportunity in the House to discuss this in the context of the plenary session. I would have liked us to have had several possibilities to do so. The Treaty of Amsterdam has many positive pages, but it also has many disappointments. That is also the reason why we do not agree with enthusiasm, but we are still happy to accept this agreement. The positive aspects of the Treaty of Amsterdam include improving the situation towards freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. These points have been incorporated into the Treaty as basic principles. The area of immigration and asylum policy has also become a Community competence. This is an objective which we naturally welcome. However, Austria's position on a restrictive asylum law or on a very poor right for third-country nationals in the treaty negotiations has been enforced, and we think this is extremely unfortunate. We do not understand why the EU is unable to join the European Convention on Human Rights. This is a very sad state, and we hope that we will be able to achieve a positive outcome at one of the next meetings in which we will have to discuss and agree on the progress of the European Union. The European Convention on Human Rights is a fundamental part of a peaceful living together, and I do not understand at all why it was not possible to include it in the Treaty of Amsterdam. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The action on sustainable development in the field of environmental protection is also disappointing. In Cardiff, as we have seen, there has not even been a mention that there should be some kind of European energy tax. There is no progress in the Treaty of Amsterdam in terms of nuclear policy. All of this is unfortunate, because we would have liked to have an impulse from Austria, but we could not observe anything like it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Furthermore, institutional reform. In Cardiff, nothing was said about the period during which the institutional reform had to take place. Co-decision in the first pillar, particularly in budgetary matters, discharge of individual Commissioners, legislative functions for the European Parliament, qualified majority decisions: All these are points in which we wish to make progress, but which we did not find in the Treaty of Amsterdam. This is unfortunate, but I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. On the question of transparency, the following must be said: It was very interesting to see how the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was excited about the fact that someone else has "ploughed out" that this issue will be important in the context of the Austrian Presidency and that there will be a meeting in Austria in this respect, which will deal with the question of creating a Europe close to citizens. The Chancellor obviously understands nothing of European information policy, otherwise this Fauxpas would not have happened to him. It is his duty to inform the citizens, and if that is what the Germans do and we do not, it is a witness of poverty for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, almost exactly on the day, I tabled a request for an opinion on the question of transparency. He was, of course, rejected, and I must say that I have not understood it until today, why, but perhaps the summit can give me some information about it in October. I have requested in this my request a right of access to all documents relating to legislation, jurisdiction, administration and other EU projects for every citizen and every citizen. This was rejected by the coalition parties. I have also asked that, if there are exceptions, no documents should be made available only for reasons. This too was rejected. I have also requested that requests for access to documents be made anonymously. This request was also rejected. I also called for a protocol to be drawn up on each meeting of the EU Council. This too was not my request by the government parties. But if you want to talk about transparency and proximity to citizens in the EU, please take this request back to hand, and do what we proposed a year ago. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I now come very briefly to speak to the Austrian Presidency in the EU, because I believe that we need some follow-up. First of all, I would like to say that I am sorry that not even in the Austrian Parliament, as in the German Bundestag, where this is the case at the hour, a statement by the Federal Government following the Cardiff Summit and about its results is being discussed. There is obviously no need for such an explanation in Austria. There is no information at all for parliamentarians about how the Federal Government behaved in Cardiff and on what conclusions it came to. I am very sorry that we always have to inform ourselves about channels of our foreign colleagues, what actually happened there or whether we have to use media coverage. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I had the pleasure of discussing with high representatives of the Commission yesterday. The Austrian Presidency has not set itself a lattice, for the reason that it can guarantee a success in any case. A "walk" with perhaps a very small climb will probably be able to trust Austria, and that is why one has not even defined what one really wants to be proud of after six months. There is no information at all about what Austria is really important and what progress we want to make. We have all heard enough headlines, but headlines are not targets, but at best represent a calendar that serves to achieve goals. The Federal Government clearly sees itself as a administrator in the Presidency, as a transfer of dossiers from the English Presidency to the German Presidency, but not as a political manager. But I believe that we actually have high-ranking political managers if you only recognize it – only you have not recognized it so far. I hope that the Federal Government – and I conclude by doing so – will become an attorney for the enlargement of the East. I am saying this because, in the federal states, all the high officials of the EIA and the SPÖ are constantly vetting against the citizens in the Eastern European countries. I don't think that's a constructive contribution. I would like to see massive progress being made in this area, and we will soon be able to welcome our colleagues in the neighbouring countries of Europe. This is a goal that would be worth reaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3759	The Secretary of State has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3780	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on the contributions to the debate. I should like to say to Mr Stadler that Article 67 refers exclusively to the part that was added to the Treaty and that, as regards the first pillar, there has always been a right of initiative of the Commission and that this applies only to the new chapter included in the Treaty. [[Abg. Young: Nothing else was claimed!]] As regards the claim that the Federal Chancellor had failed to comply with his information obligation, I should like to state clearly that the Federal Chancellor has exclusively adhered to international practices and that the use which should normally be observed in the Presidency has also been observed. I believe that this is an expression of courtesy, determination and respect for the Presidency. Of course, the Chancellor then, as agreed, went to the public with his information. On the accusation that the Federal Government would not have been in favour of the Austrian Presidency in the EU, I should like to state clearly: At the Cardiff Summit, a number of problems were addressed, which should continue to be addressed. Of course, the Austrian Federal Government will continue to deal with these issues. It is also clear that the Commission's position of interest is often different from that of the Presidency, but I can assure you that the ambitions of the Austrian Federal Government will be very high and that we will pursue in concrete terms the completion of Agenda 2000 and Easter enlargement with all vehemence and without delay. The results of the Cardiff Summit will also be discussed in Parliament, with our own mechanisms, which you all know and which are slightly different from those in Germany. One thing is clear: We want to have an active presidency, a presidency which will bring as far as possible those problems that are at stake to resolve, in order to finally find decisions. But it is also a sign of quality if one does not take one's mouth to the full, but sets very realistic goals while maintaining a certain level of ambition. As regards the discussion in itself, which took place here, in particular with regard to the revision of Article 23 B-VG, the following should be noted: In this regard, Austria pursues a threefold objective: It fulfils its obligations under the Treaty of Amsterdam, it is both in the interests of the European, but in particular of its own security, and it can finally be opened up in individual cases all the options for action. The latter is particularly important to me. The innovation to be decided today does not mean that Austria would be obliged to participate in all future Petersberg tasks. On the contrary: In each case, we will be able to decide whether we consider a common European action to be useful, whether we agree to the common European behaviour, whether we contain ourselves constructively, or whether, if we are convinced, we fully prevent the EU's action by our veto. The Austrian neutrality retains its sense of meaning. Participation in Petersberg's actions does not mean participation in a military alliance. We do not join the WEU and not NATO at all. We will not be involved in the collective defence obligations of the military alliances, nor do we believe that this does not require Austrian security. On the contrary: As has already been pointed out, it is both special and essential to the renewal of the Treaty of Amsterdam that the European Union, as a political organisation with its broad range of tasks, will not analyse and solve security in a one-dimensional military sense, but in a comprehensive sense. This is certainly in the Austrian interest. As regards the second, more concrete dimension of the Petersberg tasks, namely the question of sending Austrian citizens to such actions, the following should be noted: This revision of Article 23f B-VG ensures that the recently introduced and proven procedure of the CSE-BVG remains fully maintained. In fact, if, from today's point of view, what is not to be expected is already provided for in an EU basic decision on a Petersberg task, that all Member States also participate actively, the Austrian representative in the EU will only be able to agree with it, subject to the fact that the KSE-BVG procedure in Austria actually comes to a positive conclusion. This already makes it clear at European level that an additional step is needed to send Austrian units. Parliament's privileges in this area are therefore fully in line with the provisions of this amendment. I should now like to sum up the main content of the Amsterdam Treaty very briefly from the Federal Government's point of view, since some of the contributions to the debate have also been made to the content of the Treaty of Amsterdam. At the beginning of the Intergovernmental Conference, it was clear that this could not set the final stage of integration. The Treaty of Amsterdam can therefore only be understood as a very important stage in this process. If we want to assess the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference, we must first compare with the basic conditions: The Federal Government has formulated ambitious and equally realistic objectives in its policy positions agreed before the beginning of the conference. However, if we lay down our positions of principle next to the results of Amsterdam, we can see that they are largely interconnected. We have been able to achieve many Austrian goals in this conference, with certain additions. This concerns both our active demands, in particular the new employment title, the provisions on social policy, on equal treatment, on environmental protection or on internal and judicial reforms, and the defensive objectives in which, as in central institutional matters, we have succeeded in defending an essential status quo for us. As you know, the issue of employment was of central importance in the Amsterdam discussion. The conclusion of the Stability and Growth Pact and the adoption of the Resolution on growth and employment, the decision to hold an employment summit in the course of the Luxembourg Presidency, the inclusion of its own employment title in the EC Treaty and the inclusion of the full employment objective in the conclusions of the European Council constitute a substantial set of objectives and measures which provide a good basis for employment policy impetus at European level. The anchoring of its own employment title in the new EC Treaty is one of our most important achievements at this Intergovernmental Conference. On this basis, the Union can do what we have already done at the beginning. The Council can now, through employment guidelines and recommendations, coordinate the continued primary responsibility of the Member States for employment policy. In the field of the environment, we achieved virtually unattainable success – at the beginning of the Intergovernmental Conference. There is now the possibility not only to maintain higher national standards under certain conditions, as was the case before, but also to reintroduce them at a later date. In addition to this amendment to Article 100a of the EC Treaty, I would like to stress that the strengthening of environmental objectives and obligations of consideration also meets essential concerns of our basic positions. Further reforms particularly relevant to the citizens of the Union could be achieved in the field of home and justice. Another important step has been taken in a process which has already begun in Maastricht. Free movement of persons and the reduction of internal border controls within the Union framework require comprehensive accompanying measures. This concerns external border control, immigration, asylum, prevention and combating cross-border crime. The Treaty therefore contains the new title "Free movement of persons, asylum and immigration". This creates a potential for action that must now be implemented. This Title is intended to be adopted by the Council generally within five years of the entry into force of the Treaty. However, this period does not apply to particularly sensitive materials, such as immigration conditions and provisions on the residence of third-country nationals. The principle of unanimity applies to measures of the new title. For Austria, this principle of unanimity was particularly important for the issues of migration and residence of third-country nationals. Furthermore, the Schengen acquis will be integrated into the framework of the European Union from the entry into force of the Treaty. This means, in particular, avoiding double conductivity, increasing efficiency, and a first step towards strengthening parliamentary and judicial control in these materials. Key innovations have also been made in the area of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. Although a general acceleration of the decision-making process could be achieved by extending qualified majority voting only in a few areas. However, we believe that institutional improvements, such as the creation of a planning and analysis unit for the common foreign policy, will make important contributions to a better coordinated European foreign policy. The Federal Government particularly welcomes the increased efforts of the European Union in the area of crisis management. In this way, the European Union is increasingly becoming an important security policy factor through the adoption of the so-called Petersberg tasks and the related enhanced cooperation with the Western European Union in this area. The European Union will therefore be better able, as in the field of internal security, to respond to the new threats to European security in a comprehensive way. Classical defence alliances are losing importance in this context. Comprehensive security organisations – like the European Union in cooperation with the Western European Union – are becoming more prominent in this regard. Finally, just a few comments on the institutions. On the one hand, a strengthening of the European Parliament's powers of co-operation and an extension of decisions by a qualified majority was able to take further steps towards a more democratic and efficient Union. On the other hand, the issue of the rights of nomination for the European Commission and, in particular, the weighting of votes in the Council has achieved a significant disproportionate importance of the small and medium-sized Member States. In essence, we can say that the objectives we set at the beginning of the Intergovernmental Conference have found most of the entry into this Treaty of Amsterdam. Finally, I would like to say once again that the tasks assigned to us at the Cardiff Summit are very ambitious by us that very well objectives are set, not in the Commission's sense, because the Commission itself pursues other objectives, but in the sense of an active and ambitious presidency. Austria would be very pleased to be able to negotiate some chapters in the enlargement process. However, this depends not only on Austria but also on the other Member States. We're prepared to take that up. We set very ambitious goals in our presidency. We will be active, ambitious and very committed in dealing with those problem areas addressed at the Cardiff Summit. However, we see this presidency as a very realistic one and will try to get as far as possible, we will try to continue this process, but do not take our mouths too full and make no promises that we will not be able to make. In essence, it will be a hard piece of work. There will be no Presidency with brilliant highlights, but there will be a Presidency in which there will be a lot of work to do. There will be a lot of detail, and there will be many areas of problem that will be ambitious to solve. We will be very happy to take on this task.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3822	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3846	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we could actually talk about the Amsterdam Treaty today, because it is actually something in this Treaty that would be worthy of discussion and worth. A year after the decision of this Treaty of Amsterdam – perhaps precisely when it comes to ratification – one could repeat a revision, which was actually decided a year ago, as we estimated at that time and how we see it today. That would certainly be appropriate. Is it about employment now, or is it – and this is our opinion – more or less about the elimination of Parliament? The few co-determination rights that Parliament has been given do not outweigh what has gone towards the Council and the Commission on the other hand: whether it be the strengthening of justice and home affairs, Europol and Schengen – a direction that leads to more police, more justice rather than more democracy. We could have discussed all of this today, if you had not set ÖVP and SPÖ quite different priorities for this Treaty of Amsterdam a few weeks ago. If one has read the newspapers carefully during the last few weeks, one has already become clear that both climate and bowl in this Treaty of Amsterdam see quite different, what some of my previous speakers are doing. It is nice for some of my colleagues to address this Treaty in detail, but in fact it is over, the issue is missing. It was possible to observe where the Federal Government has long focused on the common defence policy, on the question of the integration of the WEU into the EU, and to look for opportunities for Austria to be able to participate in the WEU as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible, and how it could pass by the current constitution of Austria and the current neutrality law of Austria. There were already statements by German Chancellor Klima in April, in which he pointed out and made clear that the WEU was as fast as possible in the interests of Austria. There were statements by Foreign Minister Schüssel at the beginning of May, who said the same thing and pointed out that it should be the central concern to clarify in a common foreign and security policy with the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, as you call it. That is why some might not be able to figure out and act as if it were still a matter of matter policy. Mr. Schieder! Mrs Gredler! This is not a matter of policy. This is a long time from the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty. This is only a matter of changing a common foreign and security policy. It is only about the rapid, smooth integration of Austria into this process, the WEU means, into this Western European Union – under the umbrella of the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Interestingly, then, what is in the Treaty of Amsterdam seems to you not to be enough and not to go too fast. In other words, it can be explained that, as government parties, represented by your club members, you are submitting an initiative which, as it were, should speed up a little more, which the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for anyway. You must explain to us how you want to achieve this, that although the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for a common approach to the common foreign and security policy, it is a matter of calling for it. You are always – the constructive retention of votes is very well contained. That was, as it were, the back door for the neutral states. That was the back door for the alliance-free states. With your change of constitution, you will close this very backseat again; this very provision on constructive restraint will be put out of effect more or less. They note not only by constitution that Austria is involved in the Union's common foreign and security policy, but also expressly note that this includes participation in the so-called Petersberg tasks and therefore in armed combat operations. They are exactly the step that the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for. That's exactly what you're doing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] They even go one step further: They put aside what has so far been constitutional consensus, namely that Austria only participates in armed foreign operations, in combat operations if this has been decided by the United Nations Security Council. However, the battle operations under the Petersberg tasks are not decided by the United Nations Security Council, but by the Council. With your request for constitutional change, you will create a prejudice that will have an international impact. At the European Union level, Austria is taking a pioneering role which you did not promise in 1994 in this form, a pioneering role not only in the elimination of neutrality in the core, but in the international framework means that the United Nations Security Council is no longer needed when it comes to fighting, but that the Council, the European Committees are sufficient. In my opinion, this is particularly worrying, this is particularly attacking. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Here!]] You're really having a hard time. You've also noticed this on your calls. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, not at all!]] You, as a constitutional lawyer, who is otherwise so pingy and always tries to raise the impression that he was concerned with the Constitutional Arch, should have insisted that this constitutional change which you propose should go into consideration! Would you have taken the procedure of a monthly review, a public debate? It is not comparable to the Amsterdam Treaty. That's not the right argument. You know that very well. The Treaty of Amsterdam does not include that as you see it in this constitutional amendment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's looking for the Petersberger bets!]] They deal with the public, the Austrian population with what you do. You not only undermine the constitution, you also undermine the credibility of politics if you do so. That's the point, the core of the thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They undermine credibility. You have, or your Foreign Minister, promised in 1994 that if the Constitution is changed at the heart of neutrality, there will be a referendum. Now don't even make a review – we're far away from a referendum. I therefore make the following request, which I think is essential: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you were to take the Constitution seriously, you would at least have included it in your own initiative, which would ensure that the Constitution was respected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to talk about something that I consider significant for the existing situation. We are not just holding a debate on a very comprehensive treaty, but a debate on the fact that the Constitution is being changed by your own initiative – we say: sustainable, sensitively changed, so much so that a referendum is to be held. However, the actual representatives of the Federal Government who would be the contact persons, those who represented this in the international framework already weeks ago – climate and bowl – are not present here. Mr State Secretary! I don't want to get too close to you. As the Secretary of State for Art, you really do not know many things about the Treaty of Amsterdam and Austria's obligations under the Neutrality Act. It may rather be a piece of art of yours, which you present here, by sincerely trying to read the written speeches in such a way that they are still quite understandable. You may also agree that it is actually a point of view that you have nothing to do with – you carry it out – a sense of the federal government that you must sit here and not the chancellor. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] It is a fact that the chancellor does not discuss with us the fact that significant interventions are taking place in the Constitution. Mr President. I therefore put the motion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, § 18 para. 3. that German Chancellor climate may be present at this debate. I'm trying to get you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e3989	Ladies and gentlemen! They have heard Mrs Kammerlander's request. I put this request to the vote. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request by Chamberlander to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. It has notified itself of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4028	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker has claimed that I and my party are subject to the Constitution by means of the own-initiative proposal to be discussed today. This is the right thing to do: We're changing the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4064	This was the second discussion contribution in the context of an actual correction. The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4088	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kammerlander has stated here that it is not a matter of physical policy. I agree with her: This poster, which was put up by Mr Wabl, is obviously your policy on matters. We do not understand this as a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I find it really remarkable that the Greens are once again bringing neutrality into their statements. Mr Wabl, who has put up this poster, has obviously always been a particular supporter of neutrality, especially when it comes to the second sentence in Article 1(1). 1 of the Neutrality Act: "Austria will maintain and defend this "everlasting neutrality with all the means at its command." I am looking forward to Mr Wabl becoming an activist for armed neutrality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I want to weaken this again. The Greens are not concerned with neutrality as it is now contained in the B-VG. They are not about defending a truly armed neutrality. They are concerned with the green neutrality, which is quite different from what we understand in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] A second point is the Greens' response to conflict management. What I have heard about this so far from the Greens is the very concept that we should talk about a war, an armed conflict, but not act. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the right way for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the occasion of this current situation in Kosovo, I should like to make one point: A Mr. Miloševi% will not be impressed by your speeches here. That is the essential point. It is about making pressure; it is not about talking about neutrality or other things. Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarity is needed in this Europe – and that is what we are talking about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, neither is the look back to the time of the cold war, to the time of peace demonstrations, to the concepts of social defence the right way. Nor is it the way back into a neutrality, as we once understood it. The look forward counts. This look forwards to the Amsterdam Treaty and the Petersberger tasks, which are now the task of the European Union, is quite different. We are prepared to go this path actively, because we also see neutrality in a development, namely in a forward trend. We believe that this neutrality must become solidarity in the European system of the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I do not just want to deal with the Greens' point of view. It was also very interesting to hear the interludes of the Freedom Party, in particular the reputation of Mr Scheibner, who told us that Austria had not even granted a flight permit for aircraft over Austria, which are now on the way to NATO maneuvers in Albania. [[Abg. Young: Yes!]] [[Abg. Young: Right!]] I hear this for the first time. As far as I've inquired, the others don't know either. [[Abg. Young: But in the paper you can read this!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: Was there a request from Germany to fly over Austria with military machines to the maneuvers in Kosovo? Was there such a request? Was he rejected? What procedure was there about this? [[Abg. Young: Or were there any questions in advance?]] Has Do you have information on this matter to Members of the Free Alliance? Did they ask you? I am thinking of something else, ladies and gentlemen: a close relationship between the Freedom Party and a very important institution in this country, namely the Army News Office. [[Abg. Young: With a black boss!]] The Young Member connects his work with an activity in the Army News Office, and this seems dangerous to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a sourry!]] I would therefore ask you, Mr State Secretary, to explore this immediately, if you do not know it externally, because I think it is necessary to have information about this in this House, and I very much hope that this link between FPÖ and Heeres- Nachrichtenamt does not exist. But if it exists, we all need action on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4245	Mr Jung has reported an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4271	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger has indeed claimed that I am inadvertently associating my work as a Member of Parliament with that of the Army News Office. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: proof!]] First of all, this is a criminal accusation that I will treat elsewhere, and it is also incorrect. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] For more than a year, with a short interruption, I am no longer working in the Army News Office, because, like the Commission of Appeal, the Board of Appeal in the Federal Chancellor's Office and so on, I should actually do my job legally with the HNA, but the Federal Minister tries to stop me from doing so by tricks. The members of the Board of Appeal present here know this. It is not true what Mr Spindelegger claims – but it is true that I have been tried to interfere with the exercise of my permitted activity in the army news office by the Minister of Defence. The Commission takes a different view.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4332	Mr Scheibner has reported on another actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4357	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger has assumed that I would have my information on the unauthorised overflight of German aircraft from the Army News Office. – This claim is false! I do not have this information in the area of the Army News Office, but I have this information from a place in Germany that needs to know exactly and which has complained about it. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Where else?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's got them from the boy!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: From the German intelligence service? That's even worse! It's getting better and better!]] – But that’s once again your policy that you’re there...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4432	The actual corrections have been completed. I would also like to point out that Mrs Magistrate's statement. Together with Mrs. Dr. Petrovic's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Jung. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4459	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, something which could not be said in the context of the actual correction: The Head of the Army News Office is a leading function of the ÖVP. He brought me to the Army News Office. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He was very satisfied with me there, because of my activity I received a special award, and he is still satisfied with my activity. And all this stupidity that Mr Spindelegger has claimed here... [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4510	Member of Parliament, young man! Please... [[Abg. Young: You are right, Mr President...!]] So you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4543	You are right, Mr President, there were no stupidities, there were slanders – which is much more important and worse – which Mr Spindelegger has given of himself here, because apparently in his memory and in his brain he cannot enter, that a person as an official can honestly exercise his profession for this republic and nevertheless be active in a party. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You as ÖVPler cannot imagine this, Mr Spindelegger! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That shows your world of thoughts. You only know proporz. You only know the division of the Republic, the division of Austria into two halves. Nothing else! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Quiet! Calm down! Calm down!]] They cannot believe that someone is doing his service decently. Ask your own Minister how he was satisfied with my work during the Yugoslavia war. I was in there two or three times a day. I was good enough to work for him. Now I'm here to be slandered. Not with me, my colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And now to the Treaty of Amsterdam, because it is no longer worth talking about this nonsense which the colleague has claimed to have been talking about. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here you go!]] For half a day we talked about this treaty in committee. Four or five points were also on the program. At this time, we have "worked through" this package – under quotation marks. Mr Mock – he is now, I believe, no longer here – this is not the dialogue with the opposition you have referred to. There was just no time for that. This Treaty represents one of the most important changes in this Republic since the Treaty of Neutrality in 1955. The SPÖ is well aware of this in its leadership, but the subject is kept – also consciously – on small flames. And that's where you're wondering: Why? One wants to try – and I say that quite consciously – to deceive the voters about the importance of the Treaty, especially to deceive the small officials in the SPÖ over it. There are questions for each Member during his term of office where he considers whether he has to bow to the "non-existent" force of clubs or not. It gnaws for everyone at times in the matter of votes. I would therefore be very interested in how it looks in some of the SPÖ members – some of them already included in the SOFA vote – such as Mrs Karlsson, colleague Posch or colleague Niedermaier, and so on, in reality, thinking on this subject. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Niederweiser! "Lowermaier" was a cover at the FPÖ!]] Mr Deweiser, Mr Schieder. Oh, my God, I don't have to be able to pray down all SPÖ delegates. [[Abg. Schieder: "The Netherlands" was a cover for a FPÖ money transaction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Was that the liner?]] You have deliberately failed to present some people here today, and you have already sent them out to the committee when it came to the SOFA agreement. It was actually just a SPÖ delegate or sometimes two SPÖ delegates were there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the reality! They do not trust to tell the Austrians the truth. [[Abg. Koppler: But they have not signed a contract!]] They have not signed a contract because they are under such pressure at SPÖ that they have no other chance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] At that time the SOFA agreement was actually about the basic question of neutrality, which is now clearly dead with this agreement. We are not – we have often claimed and established enough – against NATO, but we are very opposed to being thrown into something where we have all the duties, but not any rights. That is why we turned to the SOFA Treaty, which has already broken the neutrality in de facto. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality. They have long written off neutrality from the ÖVP. But not too long ago it was said: "Abolition of neutrality is not in question for me." That is what the then Minister Schüssel said; that was in 1996. "We must do everything we can to make it clear that the 13. October" – that was the day of the European elections – "is not a vote on neutrality." Your Secretary-General, Mr Khol, said that. You know well with your in-the-tabnacle positions. They bring out, as at the fair, neutrality as needed or put it back in – as it just fits. This is the dual nature that we are blaming you, because now you are saying that it is the neutrality in the area of the EU that is out of power. This is nothing but a gross deception of the voters, Mr Khol, which we will certainly not participate in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ is forced to participate. The SPÖ has long been opposed to the SOFA Treaty, it has been blocked over half a year, and then suddenly it has been concluded, and colleagues Blecha and Schieder have looked back. Yeah, what was that? – It is striking that this was at the time of the 33 million. Has perhaps Your colleague Rudas put your club under pressure, so that you have suddenly become your handcuff? We really have to ask this question, Mr Arbitrator. Finally, something I would like to read to you: "A concept of neutrality, as it would otherwise be followed in a wink way, would be the transition from the ever-increasing to fallen neutrality. This is not a serious and serious concept. It should therefore be rejected in the interest of the country's reputation." - Do you know who said that? – This is from the "Falter" of colleagues One, from your comrade One. He tells you what you're doing, and he thinks it's in the interest of the Republic's reputation. But you have to ask yourself one thing. The Lord is also in the ministry. Why didn't he do anything in the Council of Ministers? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Ask him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ask him!]] This, in turn, is a sign of dual tenacity within the SPÖ! The fact is: Today, a decision will be taken which will affect the security policy of Austria on a permanent basis, but apparently not dependent on consideration of the Constitution, not dependent on the security situation of Austria – otherwise you would have prepared the option report – but only on the inner nature of the SPÖ. On that you make the foreign policy of Austria dependent – and that cannot be carried along, Mr Schieder!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4716	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4737	Mr President. High house! This debate is to be followed with interest because I believe it affects very fundamental areas of our self-understanding. Perhaps it's a little too one-sided, but that's the debate that's to be held right now. We all know that the Amsterdam Treaty – in the preface it is so beautifully described – is also about things other than the question of neutrality and security policy. This concerns internal security, passenger transport, judicial cooperation to develop regulations, employment, social policy, the environment, health and human rights. I would simply like to list these areas so that they are also mentioned here, because we are discussing something else all the time. – And now I too will talk about something else, because it is a very controversial debate. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Point one: It is also to be discussed how great the international interest in neutral countries is, in neutrality policy, in a neutral Austria. This is not discussed in this context; we are always talking about the extent to which we define ourselves how we interpret it. It is left to us how neutrality – which is ultimately based on laws – can be interpreted. But the question is also: Who's interested in it? Is this, for example, a model? Of course, it is not a model for the Eastern European countries, which are dissolved from the Warsaw Pact, removed from the COMECON system and overcome the communist system. ==References====External links== June can be read: Title: "Military alliance freedom is a means, not a goal. Sweden and Finland are going to NATO", and then the areas in which they want to work are listed. This is a development which must at least be taken into account and which must also be included in an Austrian neutrality debate, in a self-conception debate. If this is so that it is left to us to interpret, it is also clear that there is an interpretation discussion in the course of a parliamentary debate, as it is taking place here today. A second point is the question of foreign policy. Should it be a political-interventionist or not? Should it go beyond that or not when it comes to peacekeeping when it comes to peacekeeping? The Kreiskys policy was rather a political-interventionist foreign policy. That's changed. We are in the EU. There is another geopolitical situation, the so-called threat images have also changed, because there is no longer the contrast between the West and East, between NATO and Warsaw Pact. There has been a radical change, and at the same time, of course, there have also been global change steps. I recognize myself as an interventionist foreign policy, a political-interventionist in the sense of peace, peacekeeping, peace-building, and so on, and finally, if it does not go differently, if all the means are exhausted, also militaryly enforced. In the context of the debate which is taking place here, of course, the question should also be asked, on what basis, in which framework with which legitimacy this should take place. I do not like a point, namely these forced scenarios: If you are there, you have to – if you are there, you have to. I do not know a scenario where, even in the case of UN decisions, in the case of a Security Council decision, there is a penalty if one does not participate in a solidarity action. Article 5 has never been applied to WEU and NATO. I also do not know a sanctioning instrument, which means that, if you are a NATO member or a WEU member, you have to participate in anything. Furthermore, the Amsterdam Treaty offers us the opportunity to hold or vote against the vote, although not with veto effect. There is also a logical way to force something – not only because of this institution, but also in principle. One last point I consider very positive is the merger, the EU, WEU and ultimately NATO. A very interesting pass is to be read in Article 17 of this Amsterdam Treaty, which is reflected on page 17 of the "Austrian External Policy Documentation". There it says: "The Union's policy under this Article does not affect the particular character of the security and defence policy of certain Member States; it respects the obligations of some Member States which are aware of their common defence in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) under the North Atlantic Treaty and is compatible with the common security and defence policy established in that framework." That is to say, the eleven countries, which are at the same time in the EU, the WEU and NATO, are very clear here that there will certainly be no decisions against the decision-making processes in NATO. And it becomes even clearer when I look at page 229 where in the introduction to the xxxvergl. Pk "Declaration of the Western European Union on the role of the Western European Union and its relations with the European Union and with the Atlantic Alliance": "The WEU is an integral part of the development of the European Union by providing the European Union with access to operational capacity, particularly in the context of the Petersberger tasks, and, in accordance with the Paris Declaration and the decisions of the NATO Ministers, is a key element in the development of European security and defence identity in the Atlantic Alliance." That is, this interdependence, this process is reality. One should simply face this with open eyes and open ears and take it into account in the discussion process in Austria. It can also be interpreted as a struggle for a common European foreign and security policy. This can be interpreted, which should ultimately be the goal. It is a fight for more European balance in the developing security policy system. That's reality. It is also a reality – and this is also said here – that one aspect of these considerations is arms cooperation, which can also be interpreted as the construction of a European arms industry. This should be discussed openly, even in Austria, where we have had very controversial arms debates in the past, in the last 20, 25 years. I welcome the Amsterdam Treaty, I welcome the intention it contains, I believe that it is going in the right direction, and I think that we are finally opening up the opportunities that we have to take into consideration and discuss in our debate firmly and openly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4834	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e4856	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, who does not honor us with his presence today, has repeatedly declared that a NATO accession is only possible after a referendum. . I wonder how he comes to this view. After today's debate, I seriously wonder. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has repeatedly declared that a NATO accession is only possible after a referendum. – I wonder how he came to this apparently obscene view. Of the higher government politicians, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has so far, I find it clear that a referendum is now necessary – for example in an interview with the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" in May 1998. There it says: "A accession to NATO is a sensitive issue. Although the concept of security should continue to be understood today, a ‘military core’ – the military core under quotation marks – remains “unable to agree with neutrality. Therefore, a possible NATO accession to Austria would require a referendum." – That’s why! And what are you doing today? Apart from that, I wonder what the Federal President will do after this clear statement of opinion, which is only a little more than a month ago. Will he speak out? Is he going to agree without comment that neutrality is being removed? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Maybe he thinks she won't!]] I'll come back to that. You were of the opinion, Mr Schieder, that neutrality – you did not, of course, use the word "heavy", but you have expressed it in a similar way to Mr Klubobmann Khol – will remain and will only be limited in their scope. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Just like the UN Charter, for example!]] But it is a difference whether the UN is doing something as a global organization or a community of 15 countries! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] They – not we – have said on the occasion of EU accession that it has nothing to do with neutrality at all, that neutrality remains natural. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If not, I am not for that!]] One can discuss how colleague Cap does this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] But you say that neutrality remains, only its scope will be limited. - How long? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: We will not participate in war operations!]] You're not going to participate in war operations? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why not? Outside the EU, without UN mandate: No!]] Please, Mr Schieder, I can read it. Article 23f, par. 3 does not at all refer to the question whether and how the war operations – we call them by name – are problematic or not. He says only that the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs must agree on decisions. That's all! Is this approach not a restriction of neutrality? You said it yourself, Mr. Schieder! [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is the decision at EU level and not the question of participation!]] Do not withdraw from a position you represented half an hour ago. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not for participation!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] In my opinion, the position of the FPÖ is relatively clear and clear. I do not share them in terms of content, but the attitude is clear and clear in itself. The liberals say that they are first of all for a NATO accession to Austria and second for the task of neutrality; thirdly, a referendum on it should be held before. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – This is clear and clear. This clarity is missing from the government parties – unfortunately I also have to expressly include SPÖ – in a rather embarrassing way, Mr Arbitrator. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The EIA has recently claimed that neutrality and NATO accession would be compatible. On such a hairy statement, I don't even let myself in at all. It is obvious that the policy of the ÖVP is to gradually erode neutrality until there is a need for a referendum on it. This is obvious to everyone who has pursued this over the last two years. As of today, it is new and documented that the SPÖ is involved. This is both new and documented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators shake the head.]] Why do you not say openly that Mr Cap has prevailed within the SPÖ? You can discuss his arguments! Why don't you say that openly? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Because it's not! He stayed alone!]] It's just this double-difference that we're going to go to the biscuits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5047	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5072	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to contradict the Secretary of State, who said that Mr Bundeskanzler cannot make a statement to the National Council because we have a different Rules of Procedure than the German Bundestag. Ladies and gentlemen! On such an important foreign and European policy issue, the Federal Chancellor could very well have made a statement on this matter – that is, by itself. The fact that this has not happened is for me the expression of a lack of respect for this federal government in front of the House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I miss this respect for the House, so I expect the Austrian Federal Government to make appropriate statements on the occasion of the EU Presidency Summits and also on future summit conferences at European level in Parliament. Mr State Secretary, I would ask you to take this message to the Federal Chancellor's Office. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now on the real issue of today's debate, the Amsterdam Treaty and the Federal Constitutional Act necessary in this context, with which Article 23f xxxamt PS of the Federal Constitutional Act is amended. My colleague Gredler was the first to point out that the Treaty of Amsterdam deals with much more than just security issues. The Treaty of Amsterdam is a very important step towards integration which strengthens the development of the European Union towards a political Union. It is therefore unfortunate that the debate in the House is focused only on security and defence issues and that the statements of words compared to other debates in this House are actually very sparse. I would have expected more colleagues to speak on the various subject areas covered by the Treaty of Amsterdam. This Treaty recognises the values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law at European level as the fundamental principles of the European Union. For example, the Schengen Agreement, an essential area of State cooperation, will be adopted with this Treaty. The whole area of internal security is therefore transferred at European level. It sets out issues of employment policy and, of course, issues of common foreign and security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to refer to the joint motion for a resolution (Doc. This is the first time that we have been able to achieve a common foreign and security policy. It is clear that the Treaty of Amsterdam strengthens the common foreign and security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Of course, Mr Scheibner would have been more possible, but steps are being taken in the right direction, steps by which the European Union will have a dynamic process of political decision-making on matters of common foreign and security policy. What is being created? – The General Secretariat of the Council will be upgraded to a High Representative for Foreign Policy. A planning and early warning unit will be set up which will bring about a very close link with the institutions and institutions of the Western European Union. The decision-making procedure lays down that the basic strategic decisions to be taken in the Council of Ministers must be taken unanimously, but that majority decisions can be taken in the implementation of the operational part. The tasks of Petersberg will be integrated into the Treaty of the European Union, which represents an essential step towards a long-term merger of the European Union with the Western European Union, as set out in the Maastricht Treaty. I therefore believe that this is a very important step that will enable the European Union to meet the challenges of security and defence policy on our continent. Ladies and gentlemen! It was necessary to strengthen integration into security and defence policy, as the European Union has responsibility for this continent. It is more than just an economic union, it is as a political union responsible for the people of this continent being able to live in peace and freedom. In view of this responsibility for safety, the measures mentioned above had to be adopted. It is true, Mrs Kammerlander and Mrs Petrovic, that safety must be seen comprehensively. Security is created through democratic and social developments on the continent. There must be social peace in the neighbouring countries, but also in the European Union, because this reduces the potential for conflict. [[Abg. Wabl: That's no question! What's the question?]] But that's just one side. In order to maintain security in order to ensure that security considerations and security interests can be implemented accordingly, it is also necessary, on the other hand, to take account of the military component, the defence policy component. Ladies and gentlemen! This, of course, raises the question of neutrality. – Neutrality as a security policy concept can no longer be an answer for the European Union in dealing with the security tasks. It can therefore no longer be an answer to this question for Austria, since we have been part of the same since our accession to the European Union. Security and defence policy is now no longer national, but European. I believe that it is necessary to get away from national thinking on security policy to a Europeanisation and internationalisation of security policy. We must take this step, and therefore we have to adopt national approaches. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Neutrality is such a national concept, but, Mr Schieder said, the scope of neutrality has been restricted. – I would put it another way: We have lost the recipients of our neutrality from 1955, and therefore this concept can no longer be an answer to security issues. The law of neutrality, which Mr Wabl has applied to remember the wall today, was a correct answer for the post-war period, for the time of the cold war – it is no longer suitable for dealing with future challenges. From our point of view, the integration of Austria into the European Union's security policy structures – that is the Western European Union – is the only possible answer. We have therefore tabled a request to this effect in Parliament. I regret that no real discussion is being held on these very crucial, essential issues. While we are discussing the Amsterdam Treaty, which addresses security policy issues, we are refusing to discuss the country's security prospects, the European dimension of our security policy. Perhaps there is it after the EU Presidency – if it goes well! I regret that the Federal Government has not produced a joint report of options, that we cannot talk about it and therefore do not continue on the essential issues of content. For it must be clear that we too have to make our contribution. It is not enough and is also not accepted that we are sending our diplomats, but then, if they have not been successful in achieving the political objectives that are coming to the train – freely according to the motto: Jockel, go ahead, you've got the bigger shoes on! [[Abg. Wabl: Arms Brotherhood...!]] This will not be the case at European level, Mr Wabl. I therefore believe that we are well advised to continue the security policy path set out in the Maastricht Treaty and also to take part in the Amsterdam Treaty. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, I find it embarrassing how the Federal Government, first and foremost the Social Democracy, acts on the issue of constitutional treatment of neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If the Treaty of Amsterdam is compatible with neutrality, then the question arises as to what we need Article 23f. We therefore need it because the Treaty of Amsterdam – and previously the Maastricht Treaty – is contrary to neutrality. It was therefore necessary to find a solution to ensure the constitutional integration of these Treaty provisions. From our point of view, both contracts are incompatible with neutrality, and it would therefore have been an honest solution to repeal the Federal Act on Austrian Neutrality. For now we have to confess color, Mr Kostelka. If we are tasked to Petersberger, to Petersberger missions, which are about creating peace by fighting, then we can no longer be neutral, because then we have a party to take. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: On the UN's decision!]] And taking the party means not being neutral. However, this affects the Neutrality Act in its core area, because the case now occurs or can occur, that active participation with associations in operations and also the Austrian territory must be made available accordingly. That is, the law of neutrality is no longer reality in its basic idea. All actions carried out within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and in the context of the implementation and implementation of the Petersberg Declarations at European level are not compatible with the neutrality and neutrality law as it currently applies to us. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A further comment on the additions to Article 23f, para. 3 and 4. Abs. 3 states that in these decisions the right to vote is exercised jointly by the Foreign Minister and by the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Mr President, how long?]] . We do not consider these provisions necessary, since there is no compelling reason for this and they are de facto only the expression of mutual distrust in the Federal Government. In our view, the fact that the Social Democratic Party does not have the possibility to influence foreign policy issues on the participation and involvement of the Federal Chancellor in this question is a restriction on the competence of the Austrian Foreign Minister. If the EU Foreign Ministers have appropriate competences, they should also implement them. However, they are also politically responsible to Parliament and therefore have their decisions to answer and vote on the House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to the conclusion. We will, of course, give our assent to the Amsterdam Treaty, because we see it as a very substantial development of integration into the European Union, in which we also want to participate. We will also agree with the amendment of Article 23f, although we believe that this is not necessarily necessary. But if it is clear, it should be so. In our view, it is not necessarily necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5203	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5225	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a question to the Secretary of State from the current occasion. Mr State Secretary, can you support the claim made by Mr Spindelegger, who, as a result, was alleged to have flown information from the Army News Office to the FPÖ, or not? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would therefore like this answer because we should then give Mr Spindelegger the opportunity to apologize to Mr Jung for his immense claim. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You start very naïve!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: But the conscience must be very bad!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: That was a hit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now back to the Treaty of Amsterdam and its accompanying measures. The speakers of the government parties understandably highlighted the alleged benefits of this Treaty. The Treaty was praised as an important step towards European integration – despite the noticeable dissatisfaction that is constantly increasing among the citizens of these countries, not just our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting of Amsterdam in autumn last year made one clear: The natural barriers to integration in Europe have been achieved; a common Europe cannot be decreed by decree, as you plan. A look at the past shows that the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam had to be convened to correct the mistakes of the Maastricht Treaty. The fact that the Amsterdam conference has failed is probably beyond dispute today. However, such a development did not come as a surprise, because the citizens of many European states feel simply overwhelmed by the overcrowded institutional merger of Western, Central and Southern Europe – and it is not yet. Governments have not been able to escape the pressure of their public authorities and have been seeking ways of giving individual states more national scope. Even uncompromising European proponents such as German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who wrote the European agreement without any If and But on his flags, finally had to consider the mood in his own country. – You can also read the newspaper comments of the last days: Back to the nation! How much is EU membership worth? Maastricht or Switzerland? – The headlines were similar or similar. However, it is not only legitimate criticism of the Brussels central bureaucracy or excessive net contributions. It is also uncertain whether the participating countries of monetary union have really succeeded in making the convergence of their economic, social and financial policies. Many key politicians still doubt this – I only mention two examples, namely the Prime Ministers of Bavaria and Saxony, Edmund Stoiber and Kurt Biedenkopf. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Constitutional Committee, in the debate on the amendment of the Constitutional Constitutional Act, the Treaty of Amsterdam further restricts the scope for action of the individual states, and he has said that – I quote literally – a desirable one – that was not literal before, but now I quote you literally – loss of sovereignty. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Before it wasn't literal! It wasn't literal before!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, right!]] What does this desirable loss of sovereignty look like? – You will decide today by a majority to further undermine Austrian independence. They will also decide that in future even more political, legal and economic decisions will be made not in their own country but at international level. It is essential that a decision at this supranational level breaks national law. That is to say, as has already been said in the discussion, that the Austrian neutrality is fundamentally affected. It is known that we liberals consider Austrian neutrality to be historic. But we are, ladies and gentlemen, against every label failure. We believe that even if you are in favour of the abolition of neutrality, if you consider it obsolet, then you should admit it openly and amend the Constitution by a two-thirds majority. That would be the legal and honest way. But to abolish neutrality through the back door is dishonest, and we will not agree to such a solution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another reason why we reject the Amsterdam Treaty as inadequate is the foreseeable abolition of the principle of unanimity within the EU. The gradual elimination of veto law while at the same time introducing the majority principle is a breach of an election promise, ladies and gentlemen, which you gave Austrians before the EU vote, because our fellow citizens have really relied on the fact that, through accession to the EU, Austrian representatives can prevent unwanted developments within the EU through their veto. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me turn to a detail that may not be so important to you, but to me personally and to my group. I am referring to the secondary importance of animal welfare within the EU, although the Final Act of the Maastricht Treaty contains a declaration on animal welfare. In this context, think only of the animal transports that are actually scandalous. No more positive and essential has been done in the field of animal welfare since the EU decision under the Maastricht Act. I therefore put on behalf of my group the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5367	This motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by Mr Kurzmann, has been sufficiently supported, tabled on a business basis and is included in the negotiations. Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5392	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can now answer the question raised to me regarding the request for overflight of German military aircraft as follows. The claim that this request was rejected is not correct. It is true that on the evening of the 12th. A request was made on this subject on June 30, 1998. ==References====External links== ==References== As a reason, participation in an exercise in Yugoslavia was mentioned. The application was, however, implicitly withdrawn by reference to the fact that the overflights would take place over France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5419	Mr Dr. König is now on the floor. 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5440	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Treaty of Amsterdam is undoubtedly an essential further step towards the integration of Europe – but not, as honourable Member Kurzmann has said, an integration which is determined by decree, but an integration step that will be ratified by 15 freely elected national parliaments so that it can enter into force and become effective. It is also not a correction of the Maastricht Treaty, but a further development, a further development of it. The Treaty of Amsterdam will make Europe more social and democratic: social, because the Social Charter has finally entered the Treaty after the British veto was lost, because its own employment chapter was inserted at the initiative of Austria, and more democratic, because the directly elected European Parliament has received substantial further co-decision rights and the procedures for consultation, approval and co-decision procedures have been streamlined on three very specific procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the Amsterdam Treaty, Europe will also become safer and more efficient in the fight against international crime: through the integration of the Schengen Treaty into Community law and through the development of Europol. With regard to the debate on the common foreign and security policy, which has taken so much space here, it is to be said that the involvement of Petersberg's decisions on humanitarian operations, the use of disasters, peace-keeping and peace-making measures is an attempt at finally drawing consequences from the bitter experiences we have made in Bosnia. I find it very difficult to understand colleagues when he says that the EU has had 15 years to suffer. – And when they are pulled, they say no to that! This is incomprehensible, which is actually the opposite of what people in Kosovo expect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also not right that the proposal for an initiative concerning Article 23f should give up neutrality – that is not true. No, that is really not true because we do not join NATO or the WEU military pact. It is explicitly stated that the objective - let me say this - of the Treaty of Amsterdam, namely the establishment of a common European defence and the integration of the Western European Union into the European Union, as a military arm, are the same objectives which require the competent Parliaments to be consulted. [[Abg. Young: The Persistent Neutrality!]] That is, the Austrian National Council and the Federal Council must decide on this in the case of the case of a constitutional majority. Mr Moser asked the following rhetorical question: What do we need Article 23f for? . We need these to ensure that, in the event of a decision in the Council on Petersberg's measures, the approval of Chancellors and Vice-Presidents – i.e. Foreign Minister – can only be given if there is no obligation of Austria to send troops. If such an obligation exists, a corresponding decision may be taken only if the Austrian Parliament, represented by the main committee, agrees. – This is therefore a safeguard against such decisions and does not mean the abolition of neutrality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the question must be asked: Does anyone really think that we should prevent others from taking measures of a military nature if it is not different, as was the case in Bosnia? – Of course, one will strive for a UN mandate or a mandate of the OSCE. But should we stop others from doing so? – We have not done so until now, and we will not do so in the future. This does not mean that we must actively participate in operations and fight forces; that is the difference. Member of the Van der Bellen, whose accuracy I estimate on economic issues, has Article 23f para. 3 quoted, but not Abs. 4 of which refer to para. 3 refers. I can therefore quote him as follows: "A consent to measures in accordance with para. If the decision to be taken by Austria would result in an obligation to send units or individuals, it may only be provided that, in this respect, it "needs" the "needs" of the procedure for sending units or individuals to foreign countries, i.e. the intervention of the Austrian National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the truth, and that is why we should confess to this treaty. It is a treaty in the interests of Europe, it is also a treaty in the interests of reunification with our eastern neighbours and thus the creation of a common European peace zone. So he's a contract for the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5490	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5511	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! As a member of the Austrian National Council and as a member of a party with only a few percent of the population, I have always had a security – at least I knew I could fight for this security – and that was the certainty that I felt that what is contained in the Austrian Constitution was also defended by this House. [[Abg. Scheibner: footnote, colleague Wabl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger made fun of the fact that the Greens have always stood up for neutrality. He quoted the paragraphs and said: with all the means at his command. Mr Spindelegger! I already know that other means of defending security and freedom are at your disposal than the Greens, but because we have spent our entire political life trying to ensure that there are different priorities in a highly equipped world, I think this is particularly remarkable in your case, given your private political history. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want to go into the arms weapons in your club now, i.e. those accusations that have affected your club to a particular extent and in which there are also strong reasons behind them. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What's that supposed to mean? That's a fool!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: ridiculous!]] But I want to make one clear to you. Your former Foreign Minister – I am sorry that he is no longer here – claims that we are fighting for security, justice and freedom today and here. In this regard, we all agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's it!]] But you, Mr Schwarzenberger, and you, Mr Schieder, and you, Mr Cap, believe with a very ordinary proposal by Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol, who do not even talk about giving the whole thing too much weight, the Austrian federal constitution and being able to reinterpret it. – This is the real scandal on this day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Art is sitting here to pursue the virtual debate that Mr. Schieder has held excellently – I can only congratulate him on the fact that the simulation could have found its continuation on the computer. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There's something to come!]] We know very well, Mr. Khol spoke in a case of Euphoria plain text: He felt it was a serious defeat that the option report had not been enforced in his sense, which would have meant a clear yes to NATO accession. The euphoria during his interview with the "Salzburger Nachrichten" was so big that he said quite clearly and clearly: That's the end of neutrality. He then, of course, restricted it to the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, of course: In China we are still neutral, in Indonesia we are still neutral. – Incredibly, the word "solidarity" is added. Mr Khol! I'll tell you one thing: The solidarity of the former Federal Governments of Austria – among social-democratic German chancellors and, I hope, under the last ÖVP Chancellor Klaus – was that Austria has always taken a party against the injustice, oppression and exploitation of social servants. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's incredible!]] That was always the command of the Social Democrats and the Christian politicians. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Khol! If you want to play out solidarity against neutrality today, this is an incredible under stand against those generations in our Republic, who – knowing that they were involved in a crime – know that our solidarity looks different than arms brotherhood and upgrading. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Such nonsense!]] Mr. Khol! You know exactly what you're doing here for a game. They wanted to get rid of this federal constitution law that I've proposed here today. Mr President, fishermen know exactly what a central message this is. You tried to get rid of this! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: If you shout, the argumenting won't be better!]] Mr Maitz. Please don't bother me with your little business interests. Please don't, Mr Maitz! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Volume does not replace the argument! That's a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Khol! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What you are doing is the violence of words, the violence of language!]] I can rely, like the minorities and the greens and those who fight for peace, although they know that there are sometimes situations in which arms have to be attacked, only on you as a people's representative complying with the Constitution – and that is what you do not do with the present day! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mr. Khol, should put away the "Constitutional Arch". He's no longer part of your repertoire. Pack him, carry him to Tyrol and bury him there! But leave this house alone!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5704	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karlsson. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5726	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to begin by mentioning five points of content to the Treaty of Amsterdam, because it is important that we in Austria know what is now the business base on which we can achieve those things that we have been discussing here for a long time. First: Women's policy has been brought to the status of the UN Convention 79, and in addition – and this explains some controversy in Austria – the promotion of women is an approved instrument of European women's policy. This is progress! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, A non-discrimination stand was decided, non-discrimination with regard to disability and non-discrimination as regards sexual orientation. This too will have an impact on Austrian law. We will no longer be able to discriminate against people because of their sexual orientation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Thirdly, It was decided to develop a Union citizenship. I think that is a positive step. Fourth: Employment Report, Annual Committee. The Secretary of State has already mentioned this. Fifth – that has not yet been addressed at all –: The Treaty of Amsterdam states that data protection relating to personal data and a corresponding control mechanism should be established at European level. I think this is particularly important in view of yesterday's discussion, because that is the opposite! In this respect, the key preparatory work should be carried out during the Austrian EU Presidency, because this is the case from 1. ==References====External links== Finally, to these chapters: I believe that during the Austrian Presidency we must insist that precisely those arguments and areas which are always left to the left become part of the acquis communautaire. This means that the new Member States also have to be more at European level on equal opportunities for women and on data protection and similar matters. This has nothing to do with discrimination, but it is of particular importance. There are, however, two minor points. One has already mentioned Mrs Gredler, namely that the European Convention on Human Rights has not been included. This demonstrates the importance of the Council of Europe, which must continue to take care of these things. The second point is that the European Court of Justice is not the first instance of the police institutions. In my opinion, this is also a pity. The discussion on the Khol/Kostelka application. – First of all, I would like to say that it is clear to me that the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister also have to comply with the Austrian Constitution – the Neutrality Act. But if a request is made which, as is explicitly clarified in its explanations, has been formulated in order to avoid misunderstandings, then I do not want to hide that I am sorry that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it is not particularly emphasized that the members of the government working in these negotiations have to comply with the Austrian constitutional provisions, in particular with regard to neutrality. That is why I do not want to hide the fact that what has been formulated for my terms is a little indeterminate – it is also part of paragraph J.13 – and that what is contained in the Green resolution on neutrality and voting behaviour is my great sympathy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5799	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5820	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the resolution tabled by the FPÖ. We are going to comply with this proposal in terms of content, but we could add it. We also believe that animal welfare must be regulated not only in Austria, but also in the EU. However, we cannot take the request made by the last speaker seriously, because we believe that this is an overt tactic. You're always for discussion. I believe that the content of this request should be discussed. That's why we're going to reject him.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5858	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not sought. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are coming to the votes. The vote will take place separately on each of the Committee's requests. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee for approval of the State Treaty in 1211 of the Supplements. Under Article 1 of the Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the decision to present at least half of the Members and a majority of two thirds of the votes cast is required. Firstly, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is most of the case. I expressly support the existence of the constitutional quota, namely the two-thirds majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the Treaty of Amsterdam and Austrian neutrality. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Salzl and Mr Comrades on improving animal welfare in the European Union. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1255 of the supplements. This draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft has been adopted by a majority of the two-thirds majority required by constitutional law. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may make this known by a sign. – The majority voted in third reading. I once again note the constitutional quota of the two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary request by Dr Petrovic and Comrades, pursuant to § 84 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to submit to the present draft referendum. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1210 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on a consultation mechanism and a future stability pact of the local authorities (1254 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e5980	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. An oral report has not been requested, so that we can discuss the debate with the speech of Mr Magistrate. Open Stadler. Please, honourable Member. - May. Stadler refrains from speaking, so that, in the sense of § 60, I now have Mr. Dr. Kier gave the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6005	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The matter before the negotiation has been discussed indirectly and indirectly in this House already repeatedly, in connection with the empowerment law which has been concluded for this purpose. I believe that the question of the consultation mechanism is a politically serious matter. It is only the Genesis of what is available for decision today, to understand that it is only a matter of a rest of an attempt that was originally made to relativize the division of power in that country. Finally, if one wants to do so, the whole thing was to be borne by the false self-understanding or by the pride of the national leaders who felt that, when they conclude political treaties, they can also substantially eliminate Parliament's budgetary sovereignty. The failure of this project and the fact that there is today a matter for voting in the House, which no longer contains this worrying and also in political terms, with regard to political culture more than serious errors, is a great step forward. Nevertheless, the Liberal Group will not vote in favour of this proposal. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, I would just like to draw attention to one point in particular, and this can be very attractive in connection with yesterday's debate with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour: You have granted a special constitutional status to the municipal government and the municipal government in the empowerment law that you have needed to be able to decide on this, but both are associations. Not even all major cities and communities are members of these associations; for example, Wels does not belong to these associations. You seem to think that associations with no legal membership are also eligible for such functions. Only with your "beloved children", at the chambers, do you insist that a compulsive membership must exist. Think about how schizophrenic such a thing is if you do not think it necessary under the consultation mechanism! Or where is the systematic mental error? I would therefore ask you to consider: It is a question of political culture, how to deal properly with the concerns: that a local authority of the other back-up must not impose any financial burden. That's right! Only the financial balance is the right place – and the way to deal with each other and talk to each other in the political area is crucial. Contracts – and if you do so many more – will not eliminate your lack of ability to discuss, your lack of compromise and your lack of promises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6056	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6077	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This issue has already been discussed several times in this House, so it is certainly understandable if it no longer causes those emotions, as was the case at the beginning of the discussion on the consultation mechanism and the Stability Pact. The beginning was quite a wrong start, so one can say, in the form that it has also been the wrong start of a political career. I would remind you that for a long time we have had the suspicion that the consultation mechanism, as it was wanted by the countries, could be something that could actually prevent initiatives. Only: The proof was a little difficult to achieve until then, in his speech as the new head of state of Vorarlberg, the head of state of Sausgruber had declared that there was now a brake on the law machine, which proved it, and we started to think together here in the house, which could mean putting this consultation mechanism into effect. I myself, at the beginning of my political career, very much liked to work in the councillor of Völs xxx col Wa and to experience what it means when the federal government passed laws. I was as angry at the time when the Bade Hygiene Act was amended, and we had to take into account 200 000 S in the budget in order to meet these new requirements concerning investigations that the Federation had prescribed. There are also reverse experiences, for example in the municipal tax. When it was introduced – I can still remember that – Finance Minister Lacina was with a number of mayors for a conversation with us. These mayors had already studied the bankruptcy order because they meant that their community was going to plead now, and in reality the municipal tax has then brought much more for the municipalities. [[In the banking series, discussions between representatives of the Greens and the Liberal Forum are held loud.]] – Mr Wabl, could you possibly continue your discussion with the Liberals at the door? Mr Wabl! I understand you have something to argue about, but... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do not consider Wabl!]] Let me briefly address five points which highlight this new regulation of the consultation mechanism, as we will decide today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Hardly there is the Smolle, he ransacked!]] [[Abg. Smolle: We have argued on the matter! We're sorry!]] – I have nothing against it, but maybe you can do it outside... – You can see how interesting this consultation mechanism is. [[Abg. Wabl: Then don't listen to anyone anymore!]] First: The procedures become more practical. Secondly, We have more rights for the little ones, and I would like to very clearly contradict Mr Kier in this regard. Of course, institutions such as the Austrian Town Association or the Austrian Municipal Association are important institutions, which are very well able to represent the municipalities and cities. They are clearly positioned in this consultation mechanism. We have brought more transparency into the processes of financial impact of laws, and we have ultimately, as the last point, incorporated more democracy into this consultation mechanism, with regard to the role of Parliaments, both of the Land Days and of the National Council. Originally, our possibilities could have been cut down. In the end, it has not become a mechanism for preventing federal reforms. If we decide on such reforms – I remember the integration of the disabled into schools – and these are associated with costs for municipalities and countries, then we also have to bear the corresponding costs. In conclusion: This consultation mechanism is a quantum leap in dealing with the local authorities. It will be linked to a Stability Pact that will follow. We will, of course, be happy to give our approval to this consultation mechanism in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6161	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6182	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We will not agree to this consultation mechanism, although changes have been made in the negotiations. On the one hand, the history of how this consultation mechanism came about is remarkable for me, and on the other hand, the result is actually a reduction of what was sought. They will remember that in the short legislative period after the 1994 elections, a major state reform had already been negotiated. I think Austria, especially as an EU member, needs such a state reform. I always remember these very small debates on individual cases of competence. It would be really reasonable to regulate the matter of animal welfare and many others once more useful if we were to carry out an exchange of expertise, a adjustment of competence in the sense of the federal states as well. Secondly, in the government template, there was also much improved legal protection, which included administrative jurisdiction in the countries. This would have really had a better enforcement at the level of citizens, and for the first time, the state function would have been jurisdiction in the countries. All of this has been eroded at the time, in particular by ÖVP national leaders. Apparently, the reform that had already been taken was too green for them. What remains is this consultation mechanism. I think it is too short, and I fear that it will also be the objective that is reasonable in itself, namely that those who decide on something should not be able to keep an eye on the cost-effective consequences. Why do I believe that? – What are the costs, this is a very difficult debate, we have once tried in a committee to outline this: Once again, there are the costs of legislation itself, the costs of Parliament, the costs of the federal law. There are the costs of execution, which apparently no one is interested in social democracy at all, but so it is, and then there are the costs... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Two members are already here!]] Two or three members of the Social Democrats, not a strong cut, but it is at least the costs of the legislation. There are then the costs of implementing a measure and, finally, the costs incurred by, for example, a local authority by granting citizens a right. All of this is not really being kept apart. What has been said in the directives which have been made available to us in the Committee is that these are administrative costs: how many A staff, how many B staff, how many premises are needed. This is not what greens mean by cost accounting, because we fear a setback and disadvantages, especially in the environmental field, by this type of cost calculation. There are many environmental measures, which initially cost money, in any case also cause costs in the administration, but which are already very expected in the short term, for example by improving health care by improving the quality and state of the environment and thereby indirectly re-establishing tourism and public health. All of this is admittedly difficult to calculate, but I think you cut yourself into your own meat, especially in a country like Austria, when we say we take a simple cost definition, we keep saying how many officials will require it, and then we think we would have to pay for it. Thus, measures of environmental protection, of occupational medicine, will never be expected and rewarded, and that is why we see this as a possible step backwards for environmental policy. Another criticism concerns dealing with EU law. This is not the case here. We believe that this implies a definition of the EU's minimum standard policy, as this only concerns mandatory EU law, but not arbitrary, beyond, better standards. We therefore also see from this title possible disadvantages for the environment. For many reasons I regret, above all – and this is our main criticism – that the far-reaching, large state reform has not been achieved and that this level of costs is too short on the one hand, and on the other hand the consultations will really go down to the level of a very small, accountable crab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6220	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6241	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This decision does not, however, decide on the often requested and expected state reform, which will continue to be negotiated, but we make an important decision on the relationship between the local authorities and on the measures relating to the budgetary discipline of the local authorities. We can note that, through the accession of Austria to the European Union, we are participating in many new positive developments. We can and should be happy about this, we should also carry it out and tell our citizens. However, because of the Maastricht criteria, we also have the obligation to exercise budgetary discipline. They all know that there are very often discussions between the local authorities that the overarching authorities would overly burden the subordinates through legislative decisions or regulations. The purpose of this consultation mechanism is to combat this, thus creating an increased budgetary discipline for all local authorities. This conflict is to be resolved after feasibility. The Federal Constitution in force does not contain any provision in the event that legislative measures taken by a local authority unilaterally burden other local authorities involved in the financial compensation. The content of an agreement already established by a special Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities was the mutual information, something very important, the establishment of consultation bodies, a cost reduction scheme and a commitment to the conclusion of a first Austrian Stability Pact. The consultation mechanism to be adopted is based on the intention to reconcile the responsibility of the legislation of the Federal Government and of the countries for public tasks and expenditure with the responsibility of these legislation for the budgets of the contracting parties and to regulate or to avoid any shift of burden among the local authorities. However, the consideration was that the autonomy of the legislation must be maintained, and that the proposed consultation bodies can only be given powers of recommendation. The mechanisms of agreement as such are laid down in Article 4 of this bill. Therefore, the consultation mechanism does not create a possibility to prevent a legislative project, but the obligation to consult within the local authorities is mandatory. The fact is that this creates a better relationship within the local authorities and gives EU conformity. We therefore think that we are fully in line with our objectives of being able to meet the convergence criteria. The aim of this law is to ensure budgetary discipline, but perhaps it will also be possible to restrict the many legislative proposals – a desire that is certainly supported by all. Overall, this is not only an important budgetary measure, but also an optimal regulation of relations within the local authorities.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6287	Mr Brauneder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6308	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In itself – the presence in this house also shows – we have today completed a constitutionally thoughtful day. It seems that there has been so much exhaustion that lunch breaks are due. No, no, no, However, I would rather not talk about the constitutionally questionable, but about the questionable day. Given a speaking time of five minutes, I want to focus on a few keywords. First: Once again, it is quite clear that it is not so much about the Constitution, but about the two-thirds majority. Secondly, In order not to leave foreign languages only to the minorities here in the house: Sine ira et studio was found to be: We have apparently taken a path – one must be aware of this: sine ira et studio – that by single steps, so under the motto, to modify and partly quote the statements of Mr. Kubobmann Khol, "From into the treasury!", by steps of material detogation of the Constitution to say goodbye to neutrality. This is the path we are taking here, but not only for a few years, but, if we are involved in international law, since 1955 through the UN accession, with which we have already removed ourselves from neutrality according to Swiss patterns in that year, where this was the slogan. Thirdly, We have introduced a method of constitutionalisation, which is characterised by so-called so-called "so-called" empowerment laws: for accession to the EU, for follow-up events associated with EU accession, empowerment of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Urban Federation to a constitutional agreement – it is the subject of this current item on the agenda, namely the so-called consultation mechanism. We have thereby – and this must be made clear as a People's representative – resigned on empowerment competences to other institutions; in the latter case, from the legislation to the administration. And today? . We are only blessing what the administration is doing here, namely concluding such agreements. We have – and this is like a red thread through all these measures – obviously become accustomed to the fact that constitutional law has become any formable matter. The only way it differs from other laws is by the presence and voting quo. Fourth: With this consultation mechanism of our state reform, Mrs Petrovic has already indicated this, we issue a poverty certificate. If we had another structure of the state with compact federal and therefore compact national competences, we would not need any such consultation mechanism. Finally, I wonder if we do not say goodbye to the form, the construction of our state near a total reform. For the basic construction was, after all, that country representatives sit together, so to speak, behind us, on the other hand, that the countries send representatives to the Federal Council and there perceive country interests. It is known that twice at the first Federal Council meeting – in 1921 it must have been – he will not stand in the way of the National Council. – However, the Federal Council could have developed differently. On the other hand, we now have a state mechanism, according to which the countries remain where they are, in their capitals, and interconnected with each other by Article 15a contracts or by their modified contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, something about this consultation mechanism: It's very easy to get around him. As you know, it refers to government documents of the federal and state governments. We have experienced here in the House that there are proposals for initiative which are designed in such a way that I have asked myself once during the last legislative period: What do we have a degree in legal science for? Obviously, the natural sense of law of Members is quite different from that of bringing in proposals for initiative here, which look like an amendment made here yesterday, which consists only of digits that are interrupted by letters such as "Abs." and "Z." and a snorkel, which represents a paragraph sign. Such proposals for initiative are, in fact, covert government documents and have been "bombed" in the legitimate departments of the ministries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: No, no!]] Who tells us that this bad dream I just offered you was not real? I could perhaps call on Mr Donabauer as a witness to the fact that there has been such an initiative, but it could have been a completely different name. With such an initiative on the initiative of a federal or state government, you can at least avoid the consultation mechanism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6355	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6376	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I thought about how to explain the term "consultation mechanism" as simple as possible. I think it's best to do this with a saying: The payer's making! Those who are entitled to justice must also be responsible for the costs. If corrective action by one of the local authorities imposes a burden on another local authority... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Col. Herb! But in that case it is the other way round: Whoever buys must pay!]] If it's the other way round, that's right, yes. But to Querelen, Mr Klubobmann Khol, I am still here in connection with you. Don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of this agreement concerns the rules of the game, it concerns the rules of the game in this reverse – in this case Klubobmann Khol is right – proverb "The payer creates!". I say to you, I agree, without any enthusiasm, because of course there are rules of play at the expense of the legislative. Although much weakened – as Mr Kier is right – compared to earlier drafts, it is and remains a restriction of parliamentary possibilities – as is the case with a communicating vessel – if, on the other hand, it strengthens the local authorities and thereby allows for an increased influence on legislation. I therefore conclude this agreement without enthusiasm. However, it is acceptable to me because of a political weighting of goods. It is about strengthening an efficient budgetary and financial policy, and it is about making room for action for an offensive and powerful employment policy, which will be the most important in the next few years at all, and also about the efforts to achieve economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness in public administration. Ladies and gentlemen! In practice, the nail sample of this consultation mechanism must be followed by positive thinking and constructive action. Why do I say that? Why is that necessary? How was that in Vorarlberg? Already on the basis of the political agreement, in some way in advance, the country has objected to a novel to the Water Law Act, on the adventurous grounds that this novelle causes less waste, thereby reducing the amount of landfill revenue, and thus a burden on the country by the federal government. That's really absurd. I call that a misuse of a good idea in itself. All those, whether officials or politicians who "good" this Idea – with quotation marks – should go inside and think a little about the different vow formulas in the future. On the other hand, one must again be grateful for this fall of sin, because it is a model example of how not to be dealt with between federal government/country, country/bond. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not impossible, in addition to, behind, before and between the consultation mechanism, to engage interests unilaterally – against the intentions of the agreement, which is:... to avoid a shift of burden among local authorities. But also – and, Mr Klubobmann Khol, I will soon come to your statements – this agreement can be broken by omissions. I recall the infinite history of the smallest district courts; it is also a case of sin. You know, ladies and gentlemen: In Upper Austria, Salzburg and Styria there are still the smallest district courts, which do not even use the labor force of a judge or which are very close to each other. This is a pointless waste of tax resources, and here there is a great need for administrative reform. It is true that the federal government is paying the costs for the judicial administration, and the countries insist on a right of consent from 1920, thus preventing an efficient, economical and economic organisation of the district courts. Ladies and gentlemen! In the thing, it's crystal clear. This can be read in the Court's reports, which can be read in the various opinions and letters of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, and this is clearly stated by the Ministry of Justice. It is hardly a matter as extensive and profoundly prepared as this question. Unisono comes out: A combination of these micro-civil courts is necessary, and this does not result in any deterioration for citizens through accompanying measures. Ladies and gentlemen! This reform of the Smallest District Courts is already in the Coalition Convention of the 11th. It was addressed and defined on 1 March 1996. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Klubobmann Kostelka, of course, does this in written agreements. Clubobmann Khol, on the other hand, does not do that, ladies and gentlemen. Why is that? Why is it that Klubobmann Khol promises something three, four, five orally, in writing, in connection with the reform of the district courts... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Why is there no option report?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I don't know why you're so nervous, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. But it's getting even thicker. What actually causes Clubobmann Khol not to comply with written agreements? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Because he always does!]] What causes him to support seeing eyes for a waste of resources? What, ladies and gentlemen, does Klubobmann Khol fail to do here? Is it the Titan Schausberger, the head of state in Salzburg, who is really only insiders known outside his federal state? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Why is there no option report? Because Kostelka does not comply with the agreements!]] Is it the "Titan" Schausberger who has the mighty clubman Khol of the ÖVP here on the gang band, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a very bad polemic!]] For example, the Titan Schausberger has been executed: No, no, we have 1999 country elections, we do not have a reform in question, we persist and remain in the state of 1920!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This protocol will be very valuable for us in the country election in Salzburg!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: This is a very bad polemic!]] Has the Titan Schausberger, Mr Colleague, sent out the following: We're working at the country level, but you can pay for it at the federal level!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is this in the ÖVP Salzburg and the ÖVP's ÖVP's relationship so that the buyer is not the payer? Is it so, ladies and gentlemen? I'm coming to the summation. First point: Mr Klubobmann Khol, it is a smooth break of the coalition agreement you are doing here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's the breakup of a written agreement, a coalition break. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Just like the option report! Polemik, polemik, polemik! Myst Polemik!]] And, Mr Maitz, Mr Klubobmann Khol, we from the SPÖ will remember it when necessary and on every occasion. A second point: How, ladies and gentlemen, am I asking, is a state reform to be negotiated with Klubobmann Khol of the ÖVP, who does not follow a written agreement concerning the federal and state relations that he himself has reached and signed? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: I can't believe what you're doing! Such falsehoods! Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol will certainly have to take confidence-building measures. It can't be like this – I'm still coming to Styria, colleague Maitz – that Klubobmann Khol is a football game by Schausberger and Co. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no state to make, there is no state reform to be made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, the state reform. Ladies and gentlemen! If this state reform becomes an act of electoral ÖVP national leaders, I will say as a steirer with a keyword Semmering base tunnel: That's where the Styrian Grey Bear climbs me up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6540	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6561	Mr President. High house! I do not know, Mr Herb, how many times I have documented here, how very writty Klubobmann Khol is. You can conclude with him whatever you want, he signs everything, we know. We have also signed such a document, which was signed at the time when it was about selling the federal shares of the CA to Bank Austria. We've got all that. We have had exactly the same experience with him as you have expressed to us today, ladies and gentlemen. That's the way it is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, you know, Mr Herb, everyone has the coalition partner he deserves. You just got the Dr. Khol as a coalition partner, and you really deserve it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can confirm that your statements, which the Khol Club and its political view of handshake quality and the validity of signatures are entirely in agreement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They cover exactly with the experience that we have not only with Mr Khol, but with the ÖVP at all levels. If it fits into the concept of the EIA, it breaks any agreement. This distinguishes you – and that is what I mean by social democracy – from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is this a coalition offer?]] Once something has been agreed with the SPÖ, it usually keeps. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is the difference, Mr Khol. Every now and then... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Yes, yes, Mr Grabner. Mr Grabner is right: Once the SPÖ has signed something – it is going through hard hearts to a result – it applies as well as to us liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Mertel, I didn't deserve that much. I want to make you a compliment: That distinguishes you from the ÖVP! The ÖVP signs everything and keeps nothing. The ÖVP has become verbatim on all levels again and again. That is why I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, you have the coalition partner you deserve, because They have made any other option in this country politically impossible. Unfortunately, this is the result of your own policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, however, I come to the subject of consultation mechanism. This consultation mechanism is not only a Lex Wordbreak Khol, but of course also a Lex constitutional change, sluggish, democratic political question, because it takes another step towards government legislation, because in the future executive bodies, institutions of the Federal Government, institutions of the state governments, legislative tasks will de facto be performed. This is a massive way of touching our democratic principle, and it is in a massive way touching our parliamentary principle. Constitutional production tasks are delegated to executive bodies. Some nebulous institutions will be created, such as consultation bodies that will carry out de facto legislative tasks in the future, ladies and gentlemen. That's how it looks! Thus, fundamental principles of our federal constitution – democratic principle, parliamentary principle – have been massively damaged. Today, they have massively damaged the Neutrality Act. As has been said, we can discuss all of this if it is decided in the context of a referendum. President Brauneder has already pointed this out. Only it should be done as our legal order provides, and not through the back door and at every opportunity according to the method of the ÖVP when people are going to sell an X for a U. This is the problem behind the whole debate on the further development of our federal constitution. It can also be discussed that in future tasks to be carried out by the Federal Council according to our constitutional structure will be transferred to other bodies: The national conference, the national finance conference and what still exists at conferences outside our constitution. But to keep the Federal Council on and act as if this were the Chamber of State, and in fact to create very different bodies, that is unfair, that is again a sluggish way of dealing with our federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Send the federal councils home! You save money, you save yourself pensions. Send them home, because the Federal Council no longer has any representation duties for the interests of the federal states since this consultation mechanism at the latest! For all that is contained in this law would be the task of the Austrian Federal Council. But, Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka, you have signed a coalition agreement again – and it seems that the exceptional one or at least one day, in which ÖVP is not fully involved – with which you have committed yourself, that you vote in the Federal Council exactly, precisely and in the same way as here in the National Council. These are your agreements! As has been said, the ÖVP does not always stick to it, and again and again the ÖVP scrutinizes in the votes. But such agreements are in a position to actually undermine our constitutional structure in a massive way. This is where such consultation mechanisms come out! It will also be a shambles, it will not be fruitless, it will not change the budget dilemma of the Minister of Finance, it will not change any of the budget dilemma of individual federal states that have only benefited a little from your last tax reform packages that you have engendered. In the end, however, it does not change anything about the structures. That is why all of this is nothing but a coalition-internal satisfaction paper, which is served by the Austrians, and the constitution is therefore in a serious way undermined. We don't give in to that. We will therefore not agree to this consultation mechanism.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6668	The next speaker is Mr Johann Schuster. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6692	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor spoke of handshake quality and about what signatures mean. – Mr Mag. Stadler! I do not want to be classified as a teacher or as a better learner, but I would remind you that, if you belong to a political party, you are currently so questioned in the quality of handshake and signatures, you should not spit so great sounds from the speaker's mouth here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The signature was never questioned – just the credit!]] Actually, I'm very surprised about our coalition partner. [[Abg. Haigermoser: They come along pretty slowly what they have on you!]] Dr. Herbs has meant in his remarks: Maintaining the small district courts is resource waste and against any administrative simplification. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Court of Auditors is my witness!]] Dr. Herbs! I could call you from your own party some mayors who are very committed to holding these District Courts. They know that this is close to the citizen, and we are committed to the citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's pact, which is concluded between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government, is also a pact in the coalition agreement of this Federal Government. I think that if this important area is decided by the votes of the two government parties today, a point can be cut off again. From the point of view of the local authorities, I can say that this decision-making represents a European excellence. High house! Although the applicable Federal Constitutional Act already lays down what territorial authorities are, not who, in the event of a law-enforcement, bear the costs. Today this is to be changed because all local authorities are being placed at the same level. I would like to quote from the Coalition Agreement, which contains the following: In the interests of a new partnership, cooperation between all local authorities is to be stepped up on the principles of efficiency, proximity to citizens and a more meaningful and timely sharing of tasks. - Quote. That is what happens with today's decision-making. For the municipalities, the conclusion of this Convention is a historic hour, because it not only asks for or does not ask for the communities to become equal partners. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that a well-understood federalism has not only to be oriented upwards, but also to the bottom: The balance must be given. And this is happening today. Finally, I can quote from a resolution of the Congregation of 1962. It had already been called in 1962: In the community, the people only suspect and understand the state. The best education of the entire people is in the freedom of the community. – I have nothing to add to this as a representative of the communities. The Austrian People's Party will be happy to agree to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6768	Mr Kröll is now speaking. 4 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6790	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The previous debate was really interesting: One has seen on the one hand the relationship between communities, countries and the federal government and how it was presented. On the other hand, the responsibility of those who have spoken against it has been clearly recognised. But a few details of the debate are really more than interesting. On the one hand, I refer to the statements made by the Styrian colleague Dr. Herbe. [[Abg. Platter: That wasn't a good word report!]] There was also a request for a SPÖ-college from Upper Austria of the 16th century. In June 1998, he wanted to know if the survival of the Unterweißenbach District Court, a village with 3,500 inhabitants in Upper Austria, was guaranteed. I can only say: The consultation is precisely in line with that! We need an agreement and a connection between all three levels: not a top, the middle or a bottom, but all three levels. Mr Herzegovina! The accusation to our clubman is completely unjustified because it concerns citizens' rights, concerns of remote valleys, valleys and rural regions, which at least want to receive their District Court under applicable law. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why does the Khol sign?]] Thus you do not render good service to the Styrian custom. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a bad contribution, because the Steirs, the Upper Austrians and the Salzburgians are right to insist that the District Courts continue to exist, especially because in more and more family matters the district courts are called. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am very glad that Mr Khol, our clubman, hears also the votes made by the regions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why does the Khol sign?]] My speaking time is short, so I come to the agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on a consultation mechanism and, subsequently, on a stability pact of the local authorities, which will enable the already largely good, partnership cooperation to be deepened in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it's all about! ==References== The agreement was initialled on 1 December 1996 between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipalities and the Municipalities, through a consultation mechanism and a future stability pact of the local authorities. In December 1997, we adopted the authorisation law as a legal basis, and now we will decide on the consultation mechanism agreement. That's good and right! The main elements of the consultation mechanism are: Firstly, mandatory and comprehensive assessment procedures – that is to say, all the laws and regulations of the Federal Government or of the Ministries, the government documents, must be communicated to the countries and the municipal and municipal authorities for their opinion. Secondly, Obligation to present the financial impact. All legal measures shall include a description of the financial impact on the own budget and on the budgets of the other local authorities. Thirdly, Negotiating obligation. Negotiations on the payment of costs may be required by local authorities within the term of office. Finally, the question of sanctions: If no opportunity is given to comment or if the outcome of the consultation procedure is not expected, the costs incurred must be replaced. And that's where the saying goes: Whoever buys, pays! This agreement is now finally a prerequisite for the fact that in the future it will no longer be possible to impose financial burdens on municipalities through legislative decisions. The purpose of this Treaty is to ensure that local authorities can contribute to the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria, maintain their infrastructure and expand them further, and thus secure the large number of jobs. The conclusion of a Stability Pact serves to strengthen the budgetary discipline required for monetary union. The division of charges from any sanctions under the EU Treaty is another objective. The consultation mechanism must be seen as a new approach. For the first time, it allows countries and municipalities to directly influence decisions of the Federal legislator – at least in terms of content – for the first time. If the influence remains ineffective, then the countries and municipalities will have no adverse financial consequences. In this respect, the intended protection function actually becomes effective. However, it is also necessary for the countries with the municipalities to adopt a consultation mechanism in the same way. From the point of view of the local authorities, particularly with regard to monetary union and its budgetary discipline, the implementation of the consultation mechanism is essential. I come to the conclusion. Like my colleagues in the ÖVP Club, I am happy to agree as one of the mayors and also as a representative of the municipal government of this document 1210 of the Supplements today. This creates a new, important page in the book of cooperation in cooperative and joint responsibility for the communities, for the countries, for Austria – embedded in a common Europe. In this way, it is an important step to further develop this cooperation. It would have been better if you had said more about it and less about our clubman, who is aware of the interests of the regions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6866	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e6887	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I join with Mr Kröll's statement, which raises Khol in light heights by saying that he is in the context of the Retain small district courts for each region. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Right!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Because he always did it that way?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I ask you: Why Sign Are you, then, the agreement that has rightly been held before you by my colleague, Mrs Herbe? Why Sign Are you an agreement, a pact with the SPÖ, which would result in the small district courts being concluded in Upper Austria and Styria? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'll explain it to you!]] I hope you explain this. They have spoken, but not for actual correction, so it is obvious that the accusation is correct. You'll probably try with some windy explanations to get out of this dilemma. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Mr. Dr. Krüger, what does "windy" mean? Is that your language as a lawyer?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol, one thing is clear: This behaviour is another impressive proof of the Austrian People's Party's dual malice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not the only example in connection with the district courts. You may recall a joint request from the Committee on Budgets as a result of the 1995 decision-making process. At that time, the Upper Austrian ÖVP-College Mühlbachler, Mayor of Freistadt, together with a SPÖ-College, has requested that the provisions of the Transfer Act be changed in such a way that the key to closing the District Courts would have been elegantly issued by Klubobmann Khol and by the ÖVP to Minister of Justice Michalek, in order to make sure that the small and so important district courts were finally. You must also clarify this contradiction, Mr Khol. This budget proposal has been withdrawn in recent minutes – obviously also on intervention by the Upper Austrian head of state Ratzenböck. After that, you have given your socialist coalition partner, who no longer believes so much in your pact fidelity, as a further sedative play an agreement with the mental reservation that you never want to comply with this agreement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already expressed the view in several previous speeches that the small district courts have a very important role to play in the exercise of jurisdiction in Austria. The Court of Auditors' statements may vote in numbers, but should be examined in the overall context. For a resolution of the small district courts has, of course, structural consequences for the towns, for the small districts and for the small district courts and the municipalities. That's not a question at all. It brings with it a further thinning of the entire economic area of the small communities, the peripheral communities. This is also the reason why many of the country's representatives of the Austrian People's Party and also we rightly believe that these small district courts should be fully maintained in the interests of the rightful population. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You can explain here your bocksjump and this mental reservation wordfully, but you can't beautify the fact that you obviously misinformed your coalition partner in this matter and made a signature with mental reservations, of which you thought you should never keep it anyway. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A more beautiful language would be appropriate for a cultural speaker!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the District Courts: The closure of these small district courts may bring a few million savings, but overall the closure of the district courts leads to a bloating of the large courts, and I warn of this step. Mr President, I should like to thank I am – I don't want to say every day – very much in court because of the political activity, only recently again at the commercial court. [[Lively cheerfulness.]] If you talk to the judges there, you'll lose your laugh. Talk to the judges from the justice department! They all say it's crazy to build a large court building of 300 million schilling in the battlehouse alley. You can laugh quietly. They're laughing now, but we're laughing at the elections. [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: You are prepotent!]] Their behaviour is equally representative. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is so typical: They're removed. They are mainly professional politicians and have nothing at all to do with the practice. You're no longer working in your civil profession. Talk to the lawyers, talk to the judges, who also belong to the judiciary working group! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Recently, a judge at the Commercial Court told me that if such a court building is built in the Schlaghausgasse, it would be a mockery - supposedly easily accessible and in truth not reachable.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7029	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that, as honourable Members have said, I have signed at the Government Agreement the plan to change the competence for the merger of district courts by the High House. It is therefore no longer necessary to give the country's consent to the change of district courts, but a hearing. That's what it's all about. I was probably not fully aware of the scope of this signature at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are an Epimetheus! That's terrible for a clubman!]] We have then heard a number of plans by the Minister of Justice, how the court structure should be changed in the case of small district courts which are not fully charged, in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. We have therefore tabled a request which has been put forward in this House to the Committee. As a result, there was an extensive protest movement in Styria, Upper Austria, in Salzburg. I must give the truth the honor: In Lower Austria, where the district courts were assembled, there was a large protest movement first. Today, I am told that the provision of services to the people in the judicial sector has not suffered. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Not in Tirol!]] There were unanimous decisions of the Landtags against the merger of the District Courts. When the plans became known that, in the course of the consultation mechanism and the federal reform, they wanted to deliver this commitment, I was told by the national leaders – I have the letters from seven national leaders – that they strongly disapprove of this in terms of the citizen movement in their own countries. I have received signatures from 2 000 citizens from Upper Austria and have heard statements from a number of officials from Upper Austria, Styria and Salzburg. I know that in my club there is at least a free mandate and that the Styrian, Upper Austrian and Salzburg delegates would not have agreed to a merger of district courts. I also know that such a scheme would certainly have failed the right to vote of the Federal Council. All this has moved me to point out to the government partner that it would be better not to put this request on the agenda. That's what I'm saying, and that's it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But since I was forced by a member of the government partner to comment on this subject in the knowledge of his clubman, I would like to put the whole story on the table. If I am accused by a member of a member of the government, I would like to question the legitimacy of Mr Herbe and his club. There is an agreement of Perchtoldsdorf, which Federal Chancellor Vranitzky signed on behalf of the Federal Government, according to which a state reform is to be carried out in the legislative period until 1994. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Who broke this?]] This agreement was not complied with by Chancellor Vranitzky and his party. – First observation. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Second finding: When German Chancellor Klima took over the Act of State Reform, there was an encounter with the heads of state in which I represented the Vice-Cancellor. At this meeting with the national leaders, which was subsequently reported in the Federal Government, Chancellor Klima has committed itself to implementing the state reform by November 1997. – This time too, not a word was held. The state reform has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7124	Mr Dr. Jarolim, with a voluntary time limit of 2 minutes, was also mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7145	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly: I do not want to address the question of the state reform or the last sentence of Mr Khol's remarks, because I believe that this question cannot be decided by a party alone, but that it is necessary to decide on a negotiated basis which procedure is ultimately chosen. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Does the herbs know?]] However, I would like to make a contribution on the question of the court structure to the fact that we are discussing and not emotionalizing a little more objectively. I can only underline what Mr Khol said at the outset: In Lower Austria, much less negative votes are to be heard in those who are involved in legal application, after implementing the reform of the organisation in the field of district courts. I think that we should ask ourselves the question why we are being put together. This, of course, also has a financial consequence on the one hand, a financial impact, but on the other hand it is also based on a material component. The people seeking justice, of course, want appropriate courts that can take profound decisions. There is also no question that in a court with a judge who has to cover all legal areas, i.e. civil law and criminal law, there is no way of working as well as in a court in which there is a separate criminal and civil law department which can adapt to the individual professional needs. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is paradoxical what you say! You're serving the mixed dishes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a point which represents a quality improvement which now occurs regardless of the financial coverage. I think you should say that here. If you choose this objective approach, this problem is quite different. Mr Krüger! If you are now more or less advocating that you want to abandon the small district courts, and notice what a bad act that is, then I am calling on you, who have, in fact, moved you there and know about the structures, not to continue to operate here with inaccurate arguments, but to argue objectively. It is simply an improvement of jurisdiction, that is no question. Of course, the fact that there is also an emotional element behind it is not a question either. But we are not here to assess what certain countries want or do not want, but to bring our positions on better jurisdiction and to implement and promote our ideas for them. As to the construction of the court in the battlehousegasse, I can say the following: There are three different components. One is that a district court must definitely be set up. Secondly, the question should be asked whether we need another detention centre. This question is currently open and to be clarified. There are arguments for this, and there are arguments against it. If we don't need them, we won't build them. I just want to say: This question is still open at present. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a pure waste of money! It's just being skinned out!]] Mrs. Colleague! I believe that there is a debate to be held on this, which is an emotionless one. Finally, the third question must be asked as to the spatial situation in the Regional Civil Law Court, namely whether it is possible to find alternatives. If it is possible, then you will actually choose these alternatives. It is, I believe, an objective discussion, as far as possible without emotions. Mr Krüger! I therefore call on you to distance yourself from such arguments as you used them here in connection with the District Courts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7209	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur, Dr König, asked for the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7227	Mr President. High house! With regard to the debate in this House, as rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, I would like to mention the following point from the report: "The starting point of the considerations was that the autonomy of the legislation must be maintained and that enforcement in the proposed consultation bodies can be granted only recommendation powers. The consultation mechanism is therefore not intended to create a possibility to prevent a legislative project." – This passage of the report is fully covered in Article 1, which states that the legislation is not covered by the consultation procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7258	We are now entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place each time. We shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee, the conclusion of the current agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act, whose Article 1 para. 3, Article 4(2). 3 and Article 6 should be amended to grant approval in 1210 of the Supplements. With due regard to the constitutional amendments just mentioned, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to approve this Treaty to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I also expressly define the two-thirds majority required by constitution. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1184 of the Supplements): Federal Senior Law (1257 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7304	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker for this debate, Mr. Dr. Graf has been reported. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now come to the decision-making regarding the Federal-Seniors' Act, which is already somewhat misleading in its title, since it is argued that the concerns of the older generation should be promoted. This law has been discussed in detail in the Committee and at least has a positive element to be recognized, which has now been raised on a legal basis to the past practice, namely the promotion of the elderly by means of the elderly's associations. This is certainly something good on the whole, as it becomes more transparent and comprehensible. So it will be a lot to read in the future. Nevertheless, there has been massive criticism in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Government, which we have also shared. We have also asked very many questions which should be explained, but which have, unfortunately, not yet been answered. That is why we have decided to table an amendment to this bill, which I will then explain further. A massive criticism of our side is already set out in § 2. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Where's the minister?]] Mr President. Is there no one on the government bank today?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7363	Wait! [[Abg. Dr. Graf doesn't talk anymore.]] Deputies! Please continue with your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7387	I am really sorry that the members of the government have clearly disbanded. In view of this discussion with the District Courts, there should have been a greater intra-coalitionary crisis, during which Mr Khol, Member of the European Parliament, explained the policy of the ÖVP and, in a reasonable way, said: [[Complaints with the liberals]] We can always think of something new and better, and what I signed yesterday doesn't count any more tomorrow! But back to that important senior law. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Will you sign the contracts?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Gottfried! The Khol would even sign this contract!]] I will explain to you where the shortcomings in this Senior Law lie, you will be able to understand. You are obviously the only one who has stayed here, probably because you are one of the next speakers to speak. Please explain to me, Mr Feurstein, why under this law women from 55 and men from 60 years of age are seniors. In my opinion, we have agreed – this trend is more or less clear – that we are going in the direction of aligning the retirement age in the future. That's your philosophy, too. However, in the Senior Law, different age criteria are again defined. I really think that's impossible if you want to send a signal to the seniors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this is really obsolete. You probably have to agree with me. But you have the opportunity to agree to our amendment. Then this perhaps inadvertent error would have been corrected again. The second point we are concerned with is the question of the elderly and the question as to when this all-Austrian importance is granted. We think that 20 000 seniors, organized in at least three federal states, are far too high. We will also make an amendment in this respect, which will reduce the threshold. Because one must already be clear: In the end, it is not possible for every small senior organisation to be involved in decision-making, since one should introduce a threshold, but not in the allocation of funds where it can, of course, contribute to it. We will be very committed to reducing this threshold in order to allow for the widest possible access to the organization to be created. Of course, to criticise quite massively is essentially § 24. Greeting God, Secretary of State! [[State Secretary Dr. Wittmann takes place at the government bank.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: After all! Where were you?]] It is sad that you have to represent the entire government all day long. But if you are still missing, I have to say that it is even more sad. But now you're back. § 24, which regulates the umbrella of the senior organizations, once again corresponds to the typical SP/ÖVP spirit. This is in itself a good concern to allow as broad a population as possible to participate in the leadership of the affairs of senior associations, in turn, to be embedded in the red and black proportions. The provision that two thirds of the members of the Federal Advisory Council, if they are organized in a voluntary association, receive the tasks of the Curia – which ultimately has to be determined by means of the funding – is ultimately unsustainable. As an Austrian learner, you already know what to think of it: The one third is represented by the SPÖ and the other third by the ÖVP. Thus, once again, all that is to be done for the general public according to the law has been done with red and black. In my opinion, this is really obsolete and should therefore be changed. We are for a replacementless removal of this passus. It is not necessary, however, that legally determined tasks of a senior advisory board or of a legally defined Curia are ultimately carried out again in a private club. This has only one meaning, namely the preservation of power of red and black in this realm. You can't discuss this at this point, especially since this also involves a lot of money. This means that we are getting its own senior organizations, namely the administrative system, because of course red and black do not make this free of charge. This is also to be read in the Government template: At reasonable cost, they take over the leadership of the office business of the Seniors' Curia and may then also call themselves the misleading of the population "office of the Seniors' Curia of the Federal Seniors' Council established by the Federal Chancellors' Office". A private society that can call itself that leads the population astray as if it had to perform high school duties. That's really unsustainable. That is why the Members of the Liberals are also making a request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would never become a reality. Of course, the proportional assignment of the seniors or the assignment to red and black would not be possible in the future. We will vote in third reading, despite all of this, for a single reason: As a liberal youth organization at the Bundesjugendring, i.e. in a related area, we have had the experience of refusing the admission of the Free Youth Ring there, only because the Freedom Youth Ring did not distance itself from Jörg Haider, from the Federal Party-Obmann of the FPÖ. That was the sole reason for rejection. That is why we would be glad if the Federal Youth Council had at least a legal hand, as it is now established with the seniors, that it is no longer possible to take advantage of the arbitrariness of private associations, which you want to organize over and over again, when it comes to representing the interests of the citizens. That is why we are glad that a legal solution is being reached, because this can be made controllable and comprehensible by the House in the future. Nevertheless, there is much to do with it. We will try to fix this with the help of our amendment. They are cordially invited to contribute to this in the sense of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7534	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Seidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7558	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on the criticism of Mr Dr Graf. This has been expressed in part in the Constitutional Committee. It was about the Presidency, to the majority, to the funds for the office and to the like. It seemed as if this was just a distribution action of federal funds for this "unsaid" – a literal expression used by Mr Graf – senior advisory board. I am very surprised that during all the discussions and preliminary discussions on the construction of this bill by former city councillor Dr. Matzka from the Ring Freiheitlicher Senioren was present. He knows the law from beginning to end, for he has formed it. That is why I am now surprised that intra-party communication obviously did not happen as it should actually be. I emphasize: The total budget allocated to the administration and office is limited to a maximum of 15 percent. The work of the ladies and gentlemen in this body is voluntary. It has absolutely nothing to do with party funding. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The party devices are financed!]] No, the Pensionist Association has its organization, the Senior Federation has its organization, the Ring Liberal has its organization, but... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Of course! The party devices are financed as the pensioners clubs in Vienna are in party locations of SPÖ!]] I am sorry to continue to address these accusations. I would like to deal with this law on the elderly today as it deserves it and as the older generation in particular deserves it, that we create a federal law for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few preliminary remarks. Who is this older generation? How and what does she live on? – In Austria, about 8 million people live, one million of whom are between 50 and 60 years old. 1.6 million are over 60 years old, which can be summarized under the term "seniors". There are 1.7 million pensioners in Austria in the ASVG sector, which total 1.9 million pensions. The level of pensions and consumer prices has changed recently. Since 1984 – if we adopt the year 1984 with 100 – the compensation allowances have increased to 184.9%, the pensions to 149.7. Consumer prices remained at 140 percent. Nevertheless, we must say – that is not the most pleasing thing – that the average pension in the ASVG area is 11 442 S and women are significantly lower in pensions than men. What worries us in Austria and Europe is the development of the age structure. Life expectancy has risen in the last 25 years in men from 66 to almost 74 years, in women from 73 to over 80 years. So there are always longer retirement periods. The next question I put here refers to the development of the population over 60 years old. In Austria, 19.70% of the population are currently over 60 years of age, and in 2030 there will be 33%. We shall have to deal with this problem. A recent study conducted by IFES asked young people between 50 and 60 years of age how they see the economic situation. 28 percent of them replied that they had sufficient money at their disposal. [[Abg. Böhacker: So I belong to the "young old"!]] Yeah, "young old", between 50 and 60 years. If you already belong to it, I would like to make this study available to you once. [[Abg. Dfkm. Holger Bauer: I'm an old boy!]] Nearly measured are the funds at 13 percent, 56 percent reported it rich. Hardly the most necessary have 2 percent. It is also about asking ourselves a number of questions regarding the way of life of the older generation, such as: What's she doing? What about mobility? How does she feel? How well is she informed? Is there a generation conflict? Is the policy capable of representing its interests as it is necessary? Will the interests of older people be sufficiently represented in our society? It is also important that the desire for more influence and co-determination is constantly expressed. This is a way of achieving this concern. In summary, this study concludes that there should be an elimination of the information deficit, professional advice, offers for leisure and society, food aid, education, physical fitness, sports and discussion events. – This is in line with the intention of this Federal-Senior Law, because it offers extensive advice and information to seniors who are not members of the organisations concerned. Thus, these organisations are an important complement to the state social security law advisory units. Important points are: Establishment of the Federal Advisory Council by law – this is what is happening here – as well as the definition of the internal organisation of the Advisory Council. Expanding the tasks of the Federal Advisory Council, which are precisely defined in the legislative text. Standardisation of general support for the elderly to support the advice, information and care of older people. Empowerment of the Federal Chancellor, with the management of the office operations of the Senior Curia, which is part of the Federal Advisory Council, to entrust with the award of the General Senior Promotion and the management and control of the funds to the umbrella association of the Senior Organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! As in the Constitutional Committee, as a representative of my group, I have presented the positive aspects of this law. Finally, we have worked for many years to ensure that such a law takes into account the wishes, concerns, needs and concerns of the older generation to a degree that has never been the case. The Socialist Group believes that today is a good day for the elderly. We agree with this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7643	Mr Kier. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. No voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7665	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the coalition crisis is more sustainable than suspected. I do not think that this is a demonstration of distance due to matter. [[The speaker looks at empty benches in demonstration]] I do not think so, although the law is so bad that I have to object to Mr Graf's opinion. I think the law is non-repairable. Your repair efforts honor you, but I think it's not repairable. It really contains massive shortcomings, democracy policy as well as social policy. First of all, I would like to draw attention to a small lack: For the financial expenses required by the law, there is a detailed calculation in the government template. That's a very accurate representation. Mr Seidinger has also mentioned the number: 1 859 516. You can read this. This number is multiplied by 11 S, which is part of § 19 para. This results in 20 454 676 p. However, this is exactly the amount which, in accordance with the provisions of § 19 one, comes to the elderly organisations as a general pension fund. That's exactly the device promotion. The special support for the elderly, which is then referred to in § 20 as an alibi provision, does not appear at all in the presentation of the financial requirements. Although it is made possible by the law, it is not provided for in the budget. Therefore, the law actually shrinks to a project for the financing of frontal organizations of parties from a certain size, namely from 20 000 seniors-members. Mr Graf is trying to start repairing at this point by changing this number. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't fix that!]] But the structural error of the fact that it must ultimately be large-scale organizations is not eliminated. That's what I meant. But I do not want to deal with this intensively now, Mr Graf, because that is not the real problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I have said that you are trying to repair this law, but I think it is irreparable. This is not such a strong contradiction. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a question of endurance! You don't have one!]] If you look at how seniors are defined, you don't get any better because these people are over 55 and 60 years old, again a non-specific, strange differentiation. Especially in the case of seniors, one might have agreed on a uniform age, especially since you are one of the seniors of any younger people, provided that he refers to a pension. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the young old man!]] A 30-year-old pensioner is covered by the Federal-Senioren Act. But you meet a differentiation in age after sex. Because only because of the characteristic of years of life do you count women according to your world view with 55 years and men with 60 are seniors. But this can't have anything to do with the retirement age, because you count every pensioner, regardless of how old he is, whether he is 30, 40 or 50, among the seniors. If you perhaps oppose me as an excuse, you would have determined this because of the different age of retirement, then I must say that this cannot be true because this argument is absolutely incorrect. It is also in the same paragraph, in the same paragraph, but it is another point. Getting So Far You can still read between the lines! This means that you are actually discriminating about the definition of "55 years", "60 years", and that you are again promoting those living in the world of prejudices, which leads to age unemployment. You must not wonder, of course, that more than 40-year-old women are already preoccupied with structurally sustainable unemployment, because 55 years less than 15 years, that is 40 years. And it's 60 years for the men, and it's only later that it starts, because the women go into retirement in the past. – And that is what you define in a federal-senior law that is supposed to serve high goals! Apart from that, I also find the fact that you use the pensioner's existence as a characteristic for the elderly to be very peculiar. I know that, as a rule, seniors are pensioners in some way, but not all old people are pensioners in the understanding of your law, and not all pensioners, namely the young, are seniors. That is why this serves exclusively as a pretext for redistributing 20 million schilling to large organizations. And this is certainly taken away. Thankfully, Mr Seidinger, you have said that the Old City Council of the Freemans from Graz has also contributed. So you invited the big organizations, and they told you their organizational characteristics, which you then wrote in the law. Unfortunately, Mr Khol is not here now. I'm really sorry, because I think he has to make something simple. This seems to be understood by the ÖVP as a citizen society. Large organizations from 20,000 members – this is the self-organising society, these are the "small" associations that are trying to solve something directly on the ground! 20 000 members! This is the size of a city with its own statute. It is interesting to see how someone talking about civil society, as Klubobmann Khol seems to mean by this the etatistic civil society, which is still exclusively dedicated to large organizations. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: His "Alternative" is the audience advisory board!]] - Right! If you look at what this federal council of seniors is about, you have to say: He is a model example a) for the Austrian colour teaching and b) for the so-called primtal arithmetics! The number 2 is easy to produce, because that is the proportion. There are 19 members on a proposal from the Senior Organisations, in relation to the number of their members. So the large organizations must, as it were, permanently report the number of their members so that this can remain proportional. So Proporz for 19 members! There are then three members on a joint proposal from the countries. That's the only thing I'm looking forward to. Now the national conference with the head of state Klasnic, who is called the head of state, and her colleagues will have to make nine three out of three, because three can be proposed together. You'll see that's gonna be funny! This will have to lead to an exchange, because – as you will need the overflow vessel – that is, three members on a joint proposal from the Stadtbund and the Österreichische Gemeindebund. So these two private associations seem to gain more and more legal relevance. [[Abg. Wormitzer: These are not private clubs!]] But of course it's private clubs! – Mr Wurmitzer! [[Abg. Wormitzer: You are written in the Constitution! Read it!]] If you had been silent now, it would have been better. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why do you devalue the senior organizations in this way?]] I don't devalue the seniors' organizations! I have nothing against the fact that there are mass organizations. But don't pretend that there were only mass organizations, as if there were no initiatives on the ground. Do you want to collect all these among umbrella associations so you can get them on the party line? Is that the idea? The old people do not lose the right to vote, Mr Seidinger, and if it will once be 33 percent, then it is a big target group; I understand that. People will have the right to vote and they will vote. And there it may be better to give them into pre-disposition organizations and to finance the whole thing so that they can be better... – No, Mr. Collegue, this is a prejudice that you have because you cannot think differently in your structured world. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Three members on a joint proposal from the Municipal and Municipal Governments: It will also be funny if, at hours of meetings, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government have to agree on three members whom they may propose. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Is this a private club or not?]] There's no compulsive membership. You can be there, but you don't have to. It's an auxiliary size; Mr Graf may be right about that. It is, as it were, an aid size. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: An intermediate!]] We have now adopted a Federal Constitutional Authority Act so that these associations have their own role in the consultation mechanism. And there were all of us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, more than mutilated, because the question with which legitimacy such an organization actually speaks for the communities had to be left unanswered. The national conference is also not an institution, but the merger of national leaders. It makes sense for such people to meet and coordinate. But if one gives them one function at a time – the heads of state, the head of state – to appoint three for the advisory board, then the "plenty" is, too, dirty, but "plenty" – because it is now necessary to meet the nine most important representatives of our federal states at a meeting to propose three members who then appoint the Chancellor. [[Call to the liberals: Spooky!]] Furthermore, the appointment is not very durable, which can be seen on the basis of § 9. It may be revoked at any time if it is proposed by the sending body. These are, as it were, the new mandates on time. There one is sent, ordered to four years – apologies, five years – but if the sending agency, the proposed body, for example the Senior Association X or the National General Conference Y, says that this or that member has not proved successful, then it can be withdrawn, then the Federal Chancellor recalls the appointment. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Five years!]] In addition – and this is quite "toxic" – it is stated in paragraph 5 of § 9, that members and replacement members can also be called away because of severe physical or mental defects if they are unable to function properly due to them. – If you write this into a senior law, then it's defying! The fact that someone loses his business ability due to severe physical defects, I do not need to write into the law, because then he will no longer be able to function, then he may even have to be put under legal assistance. That's all bitter enough, but unfortunately it's more common in old age than it's dear to us. But if you explicitly write into a law that severe physical defects can lead to a function removal, I ask you: What do you want? That's what you're saying? What message did you want to send to the seniors? With this question, I would like to conclude my speech, Mr Seidinger: What message did you want to send to the seniors? [[Call the SPÖ: A positive!]] – That they can only be kept in the advisory board for so long as they are not too low? That's what it says! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Seidinger.]] This would not have been necessary, for it is applicable civil law that if a person loses his own power, he can no longer exercise such functions. You shouldn't have done that. In this way you have shown that what is happening here is very easy to do – even to where you do not define it. By the way, to your consolation said: It is also hard to define. But that's why it's so "toxic" because it's home to any interpretation. Under this title, the Federal Chancellor can say well - I say: after well-being! – convene unpleasant advisory members. Some expert will find himself – and if Dr. Big is! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7882	Mr Wurmitzer has also been mentioned on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e7904	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Kier! You asked the question: What message is this law to convey to the elderly? I can give you the answer: they are equal, valuable and fully recognized members of our society. That's the message! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Are they not now?]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Do we need a law to do this?]] Even though Mr Kier has given up all his pointedness to make this law ready, his arguments are more than weak. I'll prove this to you! First of all, 20 000: If you assume 2 million seniors in Austria, then 20 000 are 1 percent, and that is not a high but a very low obstacle, much lower than it is given by 4 percent in political elections. - First of all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Kier has spoken here of equipment promotion. If one considers senior organizations to be party devices, then his argumentation is understandable. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: As a precursor organization!]] However, senior organizations are themselves created, voluntary service facilities and not to compare with a party apparatus! In this case too, his argument goes beyond that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it is found here that the umbrella is to take over the agents of the Federal Chancellor's Office, I must say: We represent self-government, we say. That is why we also agree to this provision. Overall, today's decision on the Federal-Senioren Act is an important milestone in Austrian seniority policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] For the first time, Mr Graf, the Austrian seniors receive a representation of interest and a right of participation on a legal basis. They have not yet had that, and that is also in line with demographic development. Because today there are three times as many over 60 years of age as they were a hundred years ago, and today the proportion of over 80 years of age is 20 times as high as 100 years ago. It must also be noted that the group of older ones is aging in itself. In 1955, 28 000 people were over 85 years of age in Austria, 147 000 in 1998, and probably 424,000 in 2050. And if it is true what the Genevaians are predicting us, then in the future there will be a life expectancy, which is around 100 to 150 years old, and this opens up new perspectives. So it also changes social reality from day to day, and the legislator must take this into account. In Austria, 1,758 million people live under the term of this law. The fact that we have made a distinction between women and men in the law is in line with the applicable Austrian pension law. That is why we are also in favour. It must also be borne in mind that the Group of Seniors is already a third of the electorate in our Republic and has a total purchasing power of 250 billion schilling per year. It is therefore a question of granting the people who are in a higher age of life a corresponding participation and participation in social and political decisions. It is also about the generation agreement, because the aid of old age must remain a reliable and foreseeable achievement of policy for us. So far it has been the case that the senior political party organizations that have organized themselves have volunteered and offered advice, service and assistance to the elderly and have led the fight against loneliness for the elderly in this state. I do not want to give official thanks and recognition to all senior organizations, whatever their name is and wherever they may be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But of course we have also recognized our own borders, and today we also need public support because of the size of these organisations. Therefore, it was a long-standing attempt to create a corresponding legal basis. I would like to thank the two pioneers – the Bundesobmann Stefan Knafl and the Bundesobmann Pöder – but also the Bundesobmann of the Ring of Free Seniors for their pioneer work. They have insisted that it is so far today that we can adopt a federal senior law and set up a federal advisory council with 35 members. It will not be the concern of those who will be represented there, but it will depend on the way in which people's concerns are represented, namely that they are taken into account on draft legislation, that the assessment of senior projects should be carried out in an appropriate and professional manner, that one should take part in the design of directives and that proposals for positive co-existence with the older generation as a whole should also be made. We need cooperation, we need the proposals of the elderly. It is therefore important that they also have a right to propose social conditions in our state, cultural conditions, health conditions and housing conditions. This is our contribution to the "Year of Older People", which will be proclaimed by the UN in 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to have a policy of seniors, of seniors and a policy together with the seniors of this Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8008	The next Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8029	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker called it a meaning and purpose of the present Federal-Seniorary Act, so that the seniors would be informed that they were equal members of our society. It would be very sad if we needed a law to be passed in 1998. I was of the opinion that older people are, of course, equal members of our society. I see in this federal law a contribution to distinguishing between seniors according to their party-political provenance and also to creating almost new means of party funding, to the organisations of the seniors, which are close to the government parties and, at least, to the FPÖ – which has explicitly called it – to provide extra funding for the parties, because the promotion of the party seems to have become too scarce for the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Enter a word on the legality of this law. Mr State Secretary! The legitimacy of this law seems to be once again under every criticism. I find it really remarkable that, on the one hand, we have meetings in this House with representatives of science who complain of the flood of standards and also the poor quality of the legal system – the honourable Member Frieser and also some others from this House do so again and again – and then on the other hand come out such laws. For example, in § 25 the reference is that this federal law, when referring to other federal laws, means the applicable version. To this end, I must say: No, it means the current version! Mr State Secretary, what is the point? It cannot refer to any other reference to this federal law, or this reference may even be misleading, because if, in the revision of another law referred to here, something changes, e.g. the term of the paragraph, do you want to say that this federal law in another area can delegate in another law? - I don't think so. This is a legal act that is really disastrous, and I can only wonder what kind of government plans always come about in the personnel of the Federal Chancellery. § 26 reflects the spirit of the law, namely, to inform older women in 1998 that once again only the male form is used and that refers to both sexes. In terms of content, it then looks the same as honourable Member Kier did. The differentiations between men and women are inaccurate, by nothing to justify, and I am completely incomprehensible. As I said, take note at last of the fact that women have a right to be addressed with the female name and that there are not a few women who value it. I do not understand why we, as Members of this House, have put this right here in a Rules of Procedure and on which we also place great importance, do not allow the elderly women in Austria. I don't understand that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] But it seems that women – especially in the older generation, this is the case – are still regarded as the attachment of their husbands, and then of course this division of the law is less surprising. In this respect, I can only accept the absolutely true criticism of Mr Kier. I really think it is immense that, in the size of the organizations, there is a clear view of the leaders' organizations which, of course, can make money available to other organizations too. It is the main concern of older people, it is also the main concern of disabled people to be self-determined and to be able to have financial resources themselves. It would also be absolutely possible – without the huge organization you fear – to develop a model that provides for a temporary representation of interests by various associations and that allows different associations to have a corresponding share in the formation of a central will and in the distribution of resources. The happiness from above after the approval of the government parties is really not what associations and organizations of older people in Austria deserved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] It follows a point which I consider to be proof that this is just about an extension of the promotion of parties. So that you don't have to turn money out of your party wealth for senior interns, you create a model that clearly only the government parties and, at least, the Freedom Party have in mind. But so that this cannot be all too determined in the form of will, you have come up with something that is even more "greater" for the roof band. On the one hand, it's legalism again. I read to you the relevant sentence, so that everyone who has not been in committee knows how this law is texted. § 24 (1) reads: "If senior organisations" – that is to say, only the male form – unite into a umbrella association within the meaning of the Association Law 1951... and have been appointed, on a proposal by the senior organisations belonging to the umbrella association, at least two thirds of the members of the Bundessenior Advisory Council in accordance with § 4... and, in accordance with the Statutes of the umbrella association, these members belong to the Board of the umbrella association, the Federal Chancellor is empowered to conclude a contract with the umbrella association and to transfer rights to the umbrella association. That is to say, within the Great, the two-thirds majority will be guaranteed once again. This is the mirror of the great coalition now also in the area of the organizations of older people. One hears and marvels what this roof bandage can do: Grants granted and control these promotions themselves! This is a principle that is really immense. With this, you have a control of that body that pays out subsidies, according to the red and black principle of proportion, and that was it. Do you know what a control model is? – This control model has just gone through the media: It's the control model Rosenstingl! But we reject that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8126	Mr Haller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8147	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that the elderly population is growing not only in Austria, but also that the elderly people, we call them seniors or pensioners, have to fight with one: When seniors are torn out of work, they have, in particular, a sense of life lost to them due to the loss of work. That is why I personally consider it very important that older people work in senior organizations. We also see again and again that the appeal in these areas is increasing, because older people also need the feeling and desire to be used and to be able to speak with. The possibility of being able to speak politically is finally approved by the law which is in place today. This law is without question a link between the existing Senior Advisory Council and political decision-makers. So far, the elderly have felt badly represented in politics. We have to hear this over and over again, especially with the seniors. They have often tried to speak politically. Mr Kier! I think that a law on the elderly, a law to promote the concerns of older people, is in itself a very correct signal. In that it has not become so that one can call it "ideal", we give you the right. That is why we have tabled an amendment. We believe, in contrast to you, that the law is capable of repairing. We would like to ask you all to agree to our amendment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I now say something to you, which also explains the statements made by Mr Seidinger, in which he stressed here that on the one hand our former city councillor Matzka participated in this law and on the other hand, Mr Graf in the Committee, as a constitutional judge, proposed a different way of working. I would like to say that in our party, even if you do not want to be true, it is permitted to accept different opinions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In the future never! That's where you have to sign an opinion!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But we must have noticed... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: And in Salzburg? Watch out!]] [[Further calls.]] I say this quite consciously, and you can laugh at it, but in two years we will see who laughs then, Mr Klubobmann! – The elderly people have expressed their opinion with us. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Have you already signed the contract?]] There is nothing bad about this, Mr President. Our seniors also want the law. There is no doubt that there are criticisms, but it is by no means as Mrs Heide Schmidt says, namely that this is a shameless expression and that one only pretends to be positive for seniors. We really don't see that. Of course, it is a criticism that the access of 20,000 members is too high. But I am not of the opinion of Mrs Petrovic, who believes that self-help groups should also be represented in the association. In any event, these groups are not excluded from the use of funds, but should not be included in this body. There is no doubt about the fact that the Curia is beyond the goal. I am personally sorry because it gives the impression that this is once again a kind of pro-pore law, in which the liberals are a little bit involved. I'm really sorry because you could've done better. That is why I call on the two government parties to accept our critical arguments as well. We are not concerned that we object to small matters, as Mrs Petrovic has done in relation to the fact that only "Seniors" are concerned. For us, too, the difference in the age mentioned here is not a criticism point. No, I think that in times like this one it has to do with the political signal so that the elderly people understand that the government wants to deal intensively with its concerns. That's where we're free people. But we will call for a separate vote. This will help us to document that we do not agree with those points that lead to a proportional law. I would like to ask you, in the interest of this signal to the elderly people in Austria – and I believe this to be very, very important – to address these criticisms and to give your consent to the freedom of amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8235	Mr President, Mr Wittmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8256	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As has been pointed out from the discussions, the development of the Austrian age structure is such that the issues of the older generation are becoming more and more important and require advisory activities. I think that this law will ensure this advisory activity in the future and that it is not the possible financing of senior organizations in the run-up to parties, but that this advisory activity will also benefit non-members in addition to the members of these organisations. That is to say, one pays for services that go far beyond these organizations and associations, so that non-members also receive this information activity or the corresponding information. Furthermore, the division of competence of the federal government means that only nationally active senior organizations can be promoted by the federal government. If you look at the figures, you can see that, according to the final survey of the Central Statistical Office, there is a proportion of 1.8 million seniors in Austria. If the number of members required to maintain national relevance is determined by 20 000, this does not even correspond to 1 percent of the total number of seniors. I think 1 per cent is a justified size if you want to talk about a federal organization. [[Abg. Oillinger: How many members do SPÖ Vorarlberg have?]] Mr Kier, I would like to say the following: [[Abg. Oils: The SPÖ Vorarlberg must also be happy if it has 1 percent!]] The funds are not made available to the organization, but are provided in § 19 para. 1 expressly states that they are to be given "advisory, information and care of seniors". This means that non-members also benefit from these information, advice and support funds. § 22 standardises that the use of these funds in accordance with their dedication is indeed to be demonstrated in the preceding sense. I should like to point out that, at any office costs that you are mounting here – that these should have been added – office costs of 500 000 S are already being paid for senior organizations. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's for crying!]] Nor is it true that sovereign duties – or the distribution of State funds – are for the first time housed in a private law organization. In this context, I should like to refer to the Federal Sport Organisation: This system is also used there – and still very successful. I think it is a law which takes very well into account the concerns of the elderly people, the elderly in this country, and which seeks to ensure the corresponding development also financially.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8324	No one has made any mention of this item on the agenda. This debate is closed. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask that we take the place. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1257 of the supplements. Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Graf and Comrades. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and the request for separate vote, in the order in which the proposal for a law is put to the vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] . I would like to point out that the debate is already closed! Deputies Dr. Graf and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to § 2. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 2 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Dr. Count and comrades have an amendment concerning § 3 para. 2 Z 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to agree to this sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 3 para. 2 Z 3 as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask you, in the event of your consent, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Graf and Comrades have tabled an amendment to § 19 para. 3 C 1 refers. In the event of your consent to this amendment, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this legislative provision, as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Graf and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of § 24. If you want to stand up for this, I'll ask you for a sign to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is no need to vote on the proposed change to the designation of the following provisions. We shall now proceed to the vote on § 24 as amended by the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of your consent to the draft law in third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. I note, therefore, that the draft law was adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1064 of the Supplements): European Convention on Transboundary Television and Annex (1256 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8450	I'm calling the 5. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. We are therefore immediately entering the voting procedure. We shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee for approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty and the Annex in 1064 of the Supplements. In the event that you wish to grant this approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the case with the vote. The approval is thus granted. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee, according to which the present State Treaty in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled by passing laws. If you want to give him your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is uniquely the case. This request is therefore accepted. 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1185 of the Supplements): Federal Act on the transfer of federal holdings to the property of ÖIAG (1242 of the supplements) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1165 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Mortgage Bank Act and the Pfandbrief Act (1243 of Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 768/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Guarantee Act 1977 (1244 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 449/A (E) by Dr Alexander Van der Bellenand Comrades on the reform of the Austrian Control Bank (1247 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 792/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund comrades concerning a federal law empowering the sale of shares rights in the "Austrian Export Fund Gesellschaft m.b.H." 1249 of the supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 710/A by Mr Arnold Grabner, Mr Karlheinz Kopfand Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Gambling Act (1245 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8599	I now call on points 6 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first speaker was Mr Gaugg. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8630	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a government template for the transfer of federal holdings to the ÖIAG is on the agenda. I am very glad that Mr Ruttenstorfer, Secretary of State, is taking part in this debate, because he has a real and professional discussion with him – in contrast to Mr Finanzminister, who permanently takes all the contributions made by Members, especially if they come from the opposition, into social-democratic manner: That's what I'm trying to do. I don't even care about that. One of his spokesmen is Mr Novotny, who, everywhere and at every stage, absolutely defends him and always thinks that it is unthinkable in Austria to reduce the tax rate of almost 45 per cent by only 1 per cent, because that would be 25 billion schilling and that would break the state budget. I just wonder how it was possible in Holland to reduce the tax rate by 5 percentage points, but in Austria this does not seem possible. This is why it must be said once again that expenditure is examined very closely where savings are possible, where tax quotas can be reduced, yes must be. It cannot be said that, although workers' chamber president Tumpel calls for an immediate wage tax reduction to be effected, at the same time he fully understands the fact that, in compliance with the Maastricht criteria, this government does not intend to reduce the wage tax by only 1 s before 2001 – as can be heard now. - I think this is scandalous. There has never been such a long phase of non-correction in wage tax! For this reason, I urge the government to submit to Parliament without delay, at least by autumn, a corresponding wage tax reform, separated from the overall tax reform, because it is urgently necessary to create jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also repeatedly spoken of as "privatization". I'd rather talk – that's more honest – about breakdowns. One withdraws the control of Parliament federal capital, federal money. The Dorotheum should be transferred to the ÖIAG for the time being without knowing how high the value actually is. It is already strongly criticized in the public that the Dorotheum is far too cheap on the market. No! because, of course, in the field of building evaluations and similar matters, the question is whether this is sold to the real value of transport or to the book value – just as it should be the case again. The same thing happened at Steyr's company. If there had not been the – oh so "evil" – opposition in Austria with Federal Partyobmann Dr. Haider, Mr. Stronach would have received the company Steyr at exactly 500 million schilling cheaper. By 500 million schilling, he had to improve his purchase offer after a public discussion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Similarly, it has behaved with the Austrian Transport Office and with other so-called exclusions, because it is still only very modestly possible to use private capital at all. That means I'd expect the following: If there is privatisation, then the proceeds from it should be used for employment measures and not only for the halting of budget holes. It has already been said that the 3 billion Schilling sales revenue from 1998/99 should be included in the budget. And from the so-called technology offensive is nothing, but nothing can be felt either. The Austrian construction industry complains very strongly that there are no public contracts or very few. The Director-General and President of Austria's Association of Industrial Construction Companies warn of a record unemployment in construction. . I would expect, in that budgetary situation in which the Confederation is currently in, that the Confederation is doing its utmost to prefer structural measures. This also applies to the disaster fund. There is a list of wishes in the countries, which is repeatedly said not to be feasible because the funds are not available. It is now possible to note from the disaster fund report that 500 million schilling will be returned to the budget. – This is not the purpose and purpose of the disaster fund! I would like to stress once again what I have already said in the Committee: There are always radical cuts in the compensation of individual victims, noting that there would be insufficient resources. There are, for example, two cases: In East Tyrol, Muren disaster has now occurred twice in a row, and there has been a case in Feld am See, where the damage of a single one has also amounted to 500 000 s, but the compensation is only 20,000 s. – This cannot be in the sense of a functioning disaster fund. Now more to the airport Vienna-Schwechat, which is now also for discussion. The sale of the airport takes place at a time when the Court of Auditors has come up with painterries which are about half a billion schillings. I believe that this sale will therefore take place at a very bad time. It would be much more reasonable, a privatisation – a real privatisation! – to strive if the company is in order. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this is not the case yet. And that's all you have to do in the government, because you've been patient for years. At the AUA, a former Federal Minister for the Supervisory Board is also on the Executive Board and more. We liberals expect an immediate report on how to proceed on the sale of the airport and the sale of the AUA shares. We would also be interested to see why the airports in Graz, Klagenfurt, Salzburg, Innsbruck and Linz are excluded from these privatisation considerations. I would also ask all these questions of privatisation that this is not constantly carried out on the back of the workers. It should be noted again and again that, as soon as companies are disbursed, temporary workers will be recruited and there will be a significant reduction in staff. We can't watch that anymore! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Young.]] It cannot be said that only the employees of the companies who have worked for years are victims of privatisation and, ultimately, are faced with the fact that they have to work under worse conditions! Once a bar has to be pushed forward! As clearly as we can commit ourselves to a capitalist society by saying that the money must flow, however, everyone should be allowed and able to participate in it. It is not in a functioning economy that we are constantly considering the deterioration of workers, but at the same time we are publishing balance sheets, which – I am now saying in all clarity – are in the area of the unappropriate. This goes from price increases to increases in exports and the like. But the only minute that is written over and over again concerns the number of employees. I expect a responsible federal government to rethink, a rethink also in the interests of the Austrian economy, the domestic population that deserves it, to be able to share in the economic success as well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria is a country – it is always stressed by everyone – that is starting very successful export offensives. That means that we are internationally competitive, otherwise our partners abroad would not lose the goods. We should therefore ensure that in future we are able to make this economic growth possible in Austria as well. Let us look at the fact that, at last, the participation of the Austrian workers and the tradesmen, who are sometimes treated in real horror – but not because the officials are so "evil", but because there is a far too large a legislative flood in Austria; there would be a need to search through it once – is possible to achieve this economic growth! In the U.S., you need 10 minutes and 10 dollars to start a business. – In Austria, Zig thousand Schilling is needed to obtain approval from the Chamber of Commerce at all. Then it takes about eight months to obtain the approval for a commercial authorisation. Furthermore, you need two lawyers, two tax advisers – and eventually probably a doctor because you are sick at the end and not independent when you've gone through all of this. It would therefore be a task of policy and of all of us to reflect on the fact that European unification is taking place in this area. There are countries in the EU that have much better conditions. We should also focus on those. That would be a task for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8753	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Merchant. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8774	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Gaugg has spoken of privatisation without interruption. What we decide to do today is not privatization, and it should not be privatisation, but it is a transfer of the federal ownership rights to the ÖIAG, because we assume that the ÖIAG, with its know-how, is better aware of these rights than is currently the case within the framework of the administration. [[Abg. May. Peter: But already!]] But it's not about privatisation. This has to be clarified once. [[Abg. May. Peter: That would be good if it were also about it!]] - No, I don't think that's good, and I'm going to explain why. I mean, before I go into the subject of airport, to be able to say: I therefore think that this step is essential because it also signals that the ÖIAG is not only a purely privatisation agency but also that the ÖIAG is able to keep shares in the long term, manage and maintain them strategicly, as is the case in many well-developed economies of other EU countries, such as Germany, Italy or France. Once again – now, Mr Gaugg is back –: It is not about privatisation, but about transferring the shares from the federal government to the property of the ÖIAG. Further: As far as the sale of these shares by the ÖIAG is concerned, the law states that the ÖIAG is to exercise the share rights in the longer term. If one wants to change this, one will probably have to change that in the law, and then the procedure of the privatisation law still applies. This too is important to be held. I think it is also important that Airport Vienna AG continues to have a high public influence, because it is a major infrastructure company and because it is also known from an international level that airports are usually not only privately managed. In Europe, only the London airport is managed 100 percent privately, and the shares are privatized to 100 percent, all other airports listed on the stock exchange are public-owned. Many major airports, especially the US airports, are still managed by states or cities in public administration and are nevertheless not poorly managed. Ladies and gentlemen! We must finally get used to the assumption that all that is in public hands – wherever the public hand has a corresponding share – is automatically misguided. Let us finally go the way to try to ensure that the public sector is well managed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that this step will also succeed. He has already been successful in many businesses, and I am also convinced that we can further develop the modern management of such businesses. It should also be said that Vienna Airport is very important for the surrounding region. Airport Vienna AG employs 2,400 people, 10 000 workers are employed at the site itself, and 20 000 jobs are secured by the airport in the region. The 2015 Master Plan foresees that there will be not 10 000 people at the site, but 17 000 people, and 30 000 people in the region. A comment on the allegation that Vienna Airport was involved in so-called Malversations, in Bauscandale et cetera. This is a transfer of ownership; it has nothing to do with these accusations. Of course, all audits initiated – the audit initiated by the Minister of Finance, the audit initiated by the Supervisory Board in accordance with § 95(3) of the Stocks Act and the cooperation of the internal review with the investigative judge – remain fully valid. By case there were allegations – I would also like to make it clear in the interest of the airport – that Vienna Airport is an extremely expensive airport. – That is also not true in this simplicity: There is a cost structure, a price structure and a tariff structure of the airport. In fact, only large aircraft have to pay a little more in international terms, and the average and smaller aircraft have to pay less. The large planes are up to 10 percent more expensive. One must know that this is about a 4 percent cost component of the total flight price, that is, in reality, these larger aircraft are about 0.4 percent of the total cost – and this applies only to the very large aircraft. Last point: A transfer of the shares of the AUA to the ÖIAG is also planned; on the other hand, it is not foreseen that the AUA will continue to be sold by the ÖIAG, but that the reference rights which ÖIAG will then have will be sold. I believe that this will take a step forward, that the AUA will continue to invest reasonably and that the altitude flight in which the AUA is currently can actually continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8844	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8866	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up the thread sponsored by Mr Kaufmann: Privatization cannot be a dogma, privatisation must take place where it is useful – only I turn the burden of proof around. I mean, it's good to give the state the task of fulfilling a task, just as you've done in the infrastructure now. If this task can reasonably be done better in the state hand, it should be done there, but if it cannot be done in a state-owned way, it should make a private person. I therefore believe that the dogma should not be two-sided: not a dogma that is stately better, nor that privatisation definitely leads to advantages. [[Abg. May. Kaufmann: This is progress for you!]] – I am able to learn! I am on my way to a senior, which we have already discussed today! No, 50, Dr. Khol! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're already a senior?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Not in the "Klub" yet!]] The shares of AUA and airport will go to ÖIAG – that is all right – which will manage these shares. I'm just adding the following: It would be wise to break the head over whether the proportion of the federal government in the AUA must be so high. We discussed at the Committee's meeting that transport rights can be preserved, even if Austrian consortia retains ownership, and that the following question should be asked: Should this property on the Austrian airline be so high on the state side? – That was put to the discussion. Next point: The Mortgage Bank Act and Pfandbrief Act certainly bring a very substantial expansion of the possibilities of these institutions. That is why we will vote in favour of Liberals. I would also like to congratulate you on the guarantee law. Ensuring capital guarantees via puttings is easy to take the risk charge from Austrian investors once the nominal risk is assumed. I mean, a good solution has been found here. However, one should go one step further and consider – as is the case with the SME companies, where interest rates are 200 000 S Kest-free – whether one can expand this amount in order to make the situation more attractive for Austrian investors, not to invest in government papers, but to participate in companies through such funds – now that the nominal risk is gone. If one introduces a Kest exemption of the proceeds over 200 000 S nominale here, one would have a greater margin and offer so much more attractiveness that money flows directly into the farms. Today, in Austria, we still have a close-up monopoly of banks on capital formation. I do not think this is right, I do not think it is Europe-conform. The next point concerns the question of the reform of the control bank. Professor Van der Bellen has tabled a request in the Committee which has unfortunately been rejected. We agree with your request, so this Committee report will be rejected. I believe that the joint participation of CA and Bank Austria, which is now 43 per cent, should fall below 25 per cent. It is not good if an institution at a control bank, which is indeed a Community bank, a Community liability bank of many banks, is above the block-minority. The CA had 24.75 percent, and Bank Austria still has 18.14 percent. In my opinion, this amount should be reduced to remain under the block-minority. What really affects me, Mr State Secretary, is the question of the liability which Austria has entered or continues to address. One can of course carry out export policy with liability and allow many exports that would never have been achieved without liability. However, the question that you have answered too briefly and insufficiently in my opinion is how many of these liabilities are in need, how many of these liabilities – well over 100 billion schillings already included in the debt – are not likely to see you again, and how you want to cover this budget. What's going to be You do if, afterwards, it may prove that some liability was wrong? I know that liability means taking risks, but there must also be an ex-post check, in which one considers afterwards: Where did we make mistakes in the acceptance of liability, where not? – Today, in countries like Indonesia, they have taken over 17 billion Shillings from the Control Bank, almost 5 billion in Iraq, 1 billion in Malaysia and 1 billion in North Korea. These are amounts that are just as terrifying as these countries will not be able to serve these loans – and your liabilities will therefore become quelling. I don't want to extend this list now, but just say: This is a problem that you must take into account in your budgetary policy, which you do not demonstrate in any way in your budgetary policy, which we have not discussed in the Committee on Budgets or in the Committee on Budgets. I think there will be an urgent need for a discussion on this. Last point: the Ges.m.b.H. export funds. Dr. Stumbling! I'm sure you'll tell me what to do now. Why does the Chamber of Commerce participate in the Ges.m.b.H. export fund? Why Merge You're not with the control bank? Is this another thing about the "color teaching"? You'll explain it to me afterwards, but I'll tell you: I will not agree to this because I do not understand why the Chamber of Commerce with the Ges.m.b.H. export funds is not going to agree. I'd like to talk to you about it. That's not her job. It is the first task of the control bank to take over controls and liability. We should reduce the dominant influence of Bank Austria and CA to less than 25 per cent and the export funds in Ges.m.b.H. to give the entire control bank. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can now agree to the gambling law after there is an amendment that it will not be put into effect retroactively, because we all have undertaken not to bring laws back into effect. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's only a defamatory one!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8966	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e8987	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speakers, I would like to highlight only three priorities from this comprehensive package of financial laws. The first focus is ÖIAG. I would like to admit that I am somewhat different from my colleague's basic regulatory attitude; I have already said that in committee. This is not a malheur, however, because if two parties with different ideological and regulatory principles lead to reason, but not a marriage of love, it is no shame to show the differences. [[Abg. Smolle: There have been more divorces in the last few days!]] No, no, my colleague! I certainly see the task of the ÖIAG as a double, namely, to carry out a wealth management function on the one hand, but on the other hand to be a privatisation pro. I would like to expressly say: In recent years, the ÖIAG has performed outstandingly the second function, namely to carry out privatisations professionally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We therefore also agree that the ÖIAG should continue to be privatization pro. I am also very glad that, as far as Austrian airlines are concerned, we expressly anchor that there is an authorisation to sell rights of reference, which in the next capital increase means that we go below the 50 percent limit. Another important privatisation success in an important business, and we are proud throughout Austria that we have Austrian airlines in our country. – You can calmly praise a little loud, colleague Smolle. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But again: The ÖIAG should not become one for me and my party – and I don't think it's meant to be – as well as a central administration office for public property, which is there cemented. I don't think it can be. I admit, as long as shares have not yet been privatized, it also has the task of managing the assets. No question at all. But for us, the primary goal is not the asset management of state property for the long term, for "all eternity", but for us the function as a privatisation pro has absolute priority. The second priority I would like to mention is the Guarantee Act 1977. I am very grateful for the fact that Mr Helmut Peter – he knows that I appreciate him on the basis of his expertise – expressly welcomed this novel. I think it is incredibly important that we do things that are urgently necessary, especially in times of an export offensive. This new liability framework of up to 10 billion schilling is mainly intended to be a risk capital guarantee framework, and the development of export shows us that risk capital is becoming increasingly important. Maybe just a little example: I was at a small farm a few weeks ago. In the shortest time, a young businessman has created nine jobs in the field of audio vision technology. I asked him: If you have created nine jobs, what kind of support have you actually received? He said: Doctor, stop me with promotions! I can't get any promotions, I can only need risk capital. Because in my view, the market opportunities are changing so quickly that I cannot wait until after half a year, someone decides whether to receive an interest subsidy or not. Only equity can help me. For this purpose, this framework is intended to: He's supposed to give equity liability. This is also important, Mr Smolle, because it is becoming increasingly important for exports in particular not just to export goods and services, but also to enter joint ventures abroad. This will become an increasingly important instrument of export policy. And here again, this framework provides for a corresponding liability for risk capital in the form of investment decisions. I believe that this is a really important step in the sense of the export offensive of this Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that this export offensive has set an important framework and that we must be so fair to say: There is no doubt that the great export success of recent months is Earns dedicated export companies, export companies and their employees. If last year we had export increases of 16 percent, in Latin America of 36 percent, in Eastern Europe of 33 percent, in North America of 30 percent, then this is actually a small success story of our export industry, ladies and gentlemen. This is job security, because in Austria every second job is known to depend directly or indirectly on export! Now on the third priority, and hence also on colleague Peter. A third priority is the sale of property rights at the Ges.m.b.H. export fund. by the Ministry of Finance and the authorization of the Supervisory Bank and the Chamber of Commerce. I believe, Mr Peter, that this transaction is first of all an important signal for the excellent cooperation in the export business between the Ministry of Finance, the Supervisory Bank and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. I think these three institutions have contributed in recent years to the fact that we have these export increases which I have just mentioned. It is a symbol, and so far, Mr Peter, what you may not know, economic chamber funds are at the control bank in triple a million amount as interest-subsidised export loans. So there is already a very close link between the Chamber of Commerce and the Control Bank, because funds from the AF contribution to the Control Bank are used to provide interest-subsidised export credits for small and medium-sized enterprises. We would like to point out with a small amount that we want to continue the success story of our export industry to the next millennium together – the Control Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9047	Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on behalf of the Rest of the time of your club: 18 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9077	Don't be afraid! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will vote differently on the individual points, and I will, of course, address those points which we see as negative rather than the other points. First of all for the transfer of shares in the AUA and at the Vienna airport to ÖIAG. Not that we have something against it in principle, but we are asking ourselves slowly: What is the entrepreneurship objective of ÖIAG itself? What's the covenant going on? Why does the federal government transfer the shares in AUA and Flughafen AG to ÖIAG? This is not really conclusive from the law and from the explanations – except that it is mentioned here that the ÖIAG may sell rights of reference. For us important questions, such as, for example, what is permanent with the Austrian influence at the AUA, are not answered by the law – and not by the explanations. It is clear that the non-perception of the reference rights of the federal share in the AUA is lower than the 50 percent limit. In the Committee's view, there is also another Austrian group which, together with Austria, still holds the majority of the shares in the AUA. Please don't say anything. Is there a syndicate contract? Can you see him? Who is this other group at all? What long-term objectives does the Republic have at all? I do not doubt that there is a lot of know-how in the ÖIAG. But what does the Federation mean by the ÖIAG itself? – As far as I know, ÖIAG has 50 or 100, for example in this order, well-paid employees, and I would be interested in what this institution actually intends to do. The word "participation management" alone doesn't say anything if you don't know what goals the owners pursue. To the Mortgage Bank Act and the Pfandbrief Act we have no objections, nor to the Guarantee Act. It is unfortunate that the SPÖ/ÖVP majority could not in any way approach our request for a reform of the Oesterreichische Control Bank. It is first of all a question of keeping in mind that the customers of the control bank are the banks, the owners of the control bank are the banks, the staff decisions of the control bank are affected by the Supervisory Board, which is "of course" governed by the banks. You can think about the memoirs or about the last messages from Mr Praschak, as you want: The fact that there are latent conflicts of interest between banks on the one hand and the control bank on the other is simply obvious. And one cannot resist the impression that the banks are using the control bank to manage any potential profits for themselves and to turn the risks to the control bank – and thus to the federal or taxpayers respectively. This problem was dedicated to our proposal, which would ultimately strengthen the control bank, but with a certain shift of power within the banking group, a gain in power if one wants to interpret it in this way, in favour of the control bank and at the expense of the banks, especially at the expense of the bank-austria group. For this is a bit of a shame, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that the Bank-Austria Group would now have withdrawn to such an extent from the control bank and reduced its shares. Although it is true that the shares of Bank Austria/CA have fallen from 60 percent to 43 percent now, of the 17 percent sold, no less than 8 percent have gone to the West German Landesbank, a bank that is not known to be just far away from Bank Austria. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: From the social partners!]] Finally, on the somewhat painful question of empowering the sale of share rights in the Austrian Export Fund Gesellschaft m.b.H. The Minister of Finance is hereby authorised to sell all or part of the shares to the Control Bank or the Chamber of Commerce. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! As far as I am aware – and I am not the best-informed citizen of the Republic – it has long been clear that the control bank receives 70 percent and the Federal Chamber of Commerce has 15 percent, and the federal government retains the remaining 15 percent. Well, if the "eh" is chordd between the two government parties, why don't you just write it into the law? . You can, of course, disprove my suspicion by concluding that 70 per cent are not going to the control bank and not 15 per cent to the Federal Chamber of Commerce. Then we'll see who was right. I also share Mr Peter's view: I absolutely do not see what the Federal Chamber of Commerce has to do as the owner. The Federal Chamber of Commerce can be well advised, what do I know as I do, that may be legitimate or probably legitimate, but please, if you install the Federal Chamber of Commerce everywhere as owner, Mr Lukesch, where she has anything to do, then she must be involved in many companies, institutions, banks and cetera of this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] – So that can’t be an argument! On the other hand, the following is very thoughtful, not to say suspiciously: A review report should be sufficient? This assessment report, which, as I hear, has been in place for a long time? A review report which is very problematic because it is arbitraryly demarcating the profit value? – It may be. [[Abg. Dr. Stumblingly, you know more than I do, Mr. Colleague!]] In other words, perhaps, Mr President, although I do not entirely believe you. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: (in the direction of the abg. Dr. stupid) Maybe you don't always say everything!]] It is about the so-called interest-rate stabilisation provision. I do not want to go into it in detail now, but only to point out that this provision has been built up by thesaureated profits and has a partial capital character, as much as I hear. And I also hear that the control bank does not want that to be in the value of the export funds, Ges.m.b.H. It is also important to ensure that the Community is able to play its part in the development of the internal market. I do not mean, however, that the control bank and therefore the Federal Chamber of Commerce choose what they want for the Ges.m.b.H. export funds. to be paid. And if colleague stupidly – not only he, even I have done this in the past – once again from the speaker's desk says how great the ÖIAG as a privatisation agency is, then I wonder: Why use ÖIAG as a medium at AUA and at the airport and at various other institutions, but at the export funds Ges.m.b.H. Isn't it? What's that? – An authorisation from the Minister of Finance to sell. In many other cases we have said: No, there we have this great instrument, the ÖIAG – I don't even argue – we give it to the ÖIAG first, and the ÖIAG with its great know-how will sell it back. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Because we don't need that because it's a simple process!]] Yes, because you don't need it! – Because You don't even want to know what this thing is worth! The ÖIAG itself should of course have set quite different standards when selling or selling the Ges.m.b.H. export funds. On all these points no comment is made in the explanatory notes. What is said on several occasions and stressed is that the Ges.m.b.H. export funds will never and never compete with the banks. – Yes, I did not accept that either! If it calms the social partners to write this, please very much, but the important points are unexplained and unexplained.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9179	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ruttenstorfer. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9200	Mr President. High house! As the question of ÖIAG has been raised several times, I would like to comment on this. Austria has very good industrial companies, very successful, highly growing industrial companies. On the other hand, it cannot be overlooked that the size of these industrial enterprises is rather small to such neighbouring or other European countries. Let's look into Switzerland, for example: This country has large corporations that are to be called multinational and have their headquarters in Switzerland. If we look into the Netherlands, when we see some Nordic countries, we must note – with all the success of the Austrian industry – that these countries have much larger and stronger enterprises. I would also like to say clearly that I do not think that this is going back to the last few years, but if you want to explore the real reasons, you have to think back a lot in history, because these large international companies, too, look back on about a hundred years of history when you analyze a company such as Hoffmann-La Roche from Switzerland, BASF from Germany or other companies. However, if one looks back on such a period of time, it must be noted that Austria had to separate itself from its industrial areas, so to speak, because of the First World War; these were, historically, located in Bohemia, in the GDR, in the south of Poland. We all know that in the inter-war period, due to adverse economic circumstances, Austria was not possible to build large companies. So it was only right that, after World War II, the remaining industrial core assets were nationalized. I believe that it was also right to press ahead with privatisation at the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s – in a completely changed world economic situation. In my opinion, the ÖIAG has done a great deal in this area. In my opinion, the core performance of ÖIAG in recent years is undoubtedly in this very successful and professional sale of shares. However, if we look at the development of the last few days, we must note that companies that are brought to the stock market to 100%, such as the VA rail systems, are at risk of becoming takeover candidates for foreign companies in an ever-growing world. There is no question that we very much welcome investment by foreign entrepreneurs in Austria. At the same time, however, I would like to insist that it is essential and in the future very crucial to have companies, international companies with their headquarters, with cores in Austria. And that is why I think it is just as essential as it was in the past that the ÖIAGs are privatized that parts of the ex-state lights. It is equally important that the ÖIAG holds up to further qualified minorities in this company to ensure that there are Austrian companies in view. With its core here in Austria, these companies also offer young, qualified people the opportunity to get up domestically, to make a career in the country: They offer a wealth of service activities – the business loyals, the press, lawyers, but also many, many others open up the possibility to have additional jobs in Austria. I thought it would be a very bad development if it were not to be ensured that there will continue to be companies with headquarters and core in Austria in the future. Therefore, in the absence of an alternative, I see an essential task of the ÖIAG in keeping these qualified minorities in the interests of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9252	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. Mrs Anna Huber has now been reported to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9279	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The banking landscape in Austria is like that in the European Union, yes, I mean, even worldwide, a massive structural change. What the structures in Austria will look like in the future will also be due, among other things, to the conditions under which Austrian monetary institutions can operate. With the Banking Act 1994 we have set the course here in this House for a better competitiveness of Austrian credit institutions, because with Austria's accession to the EEA there is also freedom of services and establishment, and thus other banks in the EEA area have the opportunity to participate in the admittedly very small but dense Austrian market. As a legislator, we have to ensure that the domestic credit industry has no competitive disadvantages. At least as important is the protection of consumers, namely savers, investors, credit and loan customers. We have also taken care of this in the last BWG-Novelle. However, I would like to stress this once again, a system that I consider very, very important and urgent, namely consumer protection in the field of distance sales. In this area, the market is booming, and consumers are particularly exposed to special risks. The Austrian mortgage banks are limited to their region as institutions of the respective federal states – at least so far the respective federal states – in their business activities. This is quite beneficial because they know the circumstances on the ground very well. However, as a result of the opening of the market, our mortgage banks also need the same opportunities as foreign banks, namely to deny property from other EEA countries and to be able to lend municipal loans to other local authorities. This amendment of the Mortgage Bank Act, which is contained in the present financial package, is about this very, very necessary and important equality. It is a question of our mortgage banks being able to carry out this business throughout the EEA area, and Switzerland should be included for very obvious reasons. However, I think it is particularly important that there is also a wide-ranging comparability of these types of investments. This is again a very important criterion for consumers, for investors, because investors who have previously relied on the particularly safe instruments of the Austrian Pfandbriefs need this possibility of comparability, and they also need to be certain that similar security technical conditions exist in the other EEA countries. With this law we require mortgage banks and also trustees to carefully examine this comparability. It is, on the one hand, about the fact that the Austrian Pfandbriefs continue to have opportunities on the market, but it is also about ensuring that investors cannot be harmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9324	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Listen to me. Similarly, 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9346	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address briefly the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, which deals with a reform of the Austrian control bank. Unfortunately, he is not in the hall now, but we will certainly not have talked about the Austrian control bank for the last time. But basically, ladies and gentlemen: In my opinion, Mr. Professor Van der Bellen is quite right when he thinks that in this area belongs promptly and continuously reformed. But I also believe that the Green proposals are somewhat too general. If this is the case: Reduction of the bank Austria/CA share of less than 25 per cent, then this is certainly a real step, a first step, but I do not think it is sufficient. I represent a much more radical approach and believe that we should consider something new in terms of control. I believe that this system is dominated by the existing large banks. This is not necessarily in the interests of customers who want to have financial products that want to ensure their export activities. In this system, the Austrian banking system benefits primarily, and it cannot be, ladies and gentlemen. In this respect, we need to consider something. If it went to me, the large banks would be out of the Austrian control bank, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why? – In addition to these personal refreshments – Affaire Praschak, Secretary of State, and so on – there are again and again these famous secondary jobs, this "next piano", at which the Austrian control bank is once again and again more committed. Mr State Secretary! I would just like to remind you of this untold story with the prevention of the Xetra trading system. The Austrian Control Bank is an securities collection agency – one of these additional functions that the Bank assumes – and has developed its own trading system for the Austrian Stock Exchange, commissioned the Equos. After it was known, many have said that this may not be as well suited as the OeKB has prophesied, and it has actually proved that it had some shortcomings. But one has been blocked for a year so that the 70 million schilling that the system has cost is not simply to be written into smoking. One has known that there is something better, has developed further, so it has not been allowed to get hurt until finally Deutsche Börse AG has come and made the proposal: Let's do something together, let's go to the Eastern European Stock Exchanges together! – That finally gave the result after a long time. These 70 million schillings will have to be written into smoking, but this could have been cheaper, Mr State Secretary. One could have made a different decision in advance, but not only delay and delay out. It is about the interests of power, and that is why I believe that the big banks belong out there. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] We should keep in mind examples from other countries and look at how they do. Each country has a control banking system that works more or less well. We should not stick to the old system, but should break into new categories once. We should see how the English do this to the French. Each country operates with "soft loans" and supported guarantees. We Austrians too will need that. But I think it is essential that this is basically a state function which will remain or will be restored, although I will certainly not speak of nationalization – and everything else belongs to the private sector. This is about vital national economic interests, the enforcement of Austrian economic interests abroad, and we need to consider an independent body, so that loans are really awarded abroad according to material criteria – and not arbitrarily and after the credit of some large banks, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9409	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the current agenda. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on tax records and red and black tax gifts (4556/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9439	I call the urgent question 4556/J. It is now available in writing to all Members so that a reading by the author is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9689	First of all, the first questioner receives the floor, and then we will have a debate on it. The question raised by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. I therefore give him the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9713	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! When in November 1986 we introduced a urgent question on the subject of "creating taxes – creating work" here, I still could not quite imagine how the two government parties will deal with our suggestions. [[Call the SPÖ: 1986?]] In 1996, we asked this urgent question, on 11 November 1996. November. Mr Marizzi, you slept there again. Let's get a little up to date. [[Abg. Marizzi: You said "1986"!]] They should have studied how to create work through tax reduction. Unfortunately, you didn't take that seriously at all. The ÖVP has already taken the tax drop seriously. It simply went here and once again left itself a tax debt of 1 million schilling. It has even exceeded the demand of the liberals by leaving one million shillings to tax. – Gentlemen of the ÖVP! That is how we have not meant the tax reduction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the Socialists have also not been able to escape the issue of "creating jobs" and have developed a very own system: They have given the Federal Chancellor's secretary a job: Mr. Rudolf Scholten in the control bank, so that he can control the black breaths there, and Marc Hall, State Secretary, we have also needed the thirst on the board of the OMV, just like hunger. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: An excellent professional!]] Thousands of employees were reduced for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the demands of the liberals on the subject of "reducing taxes" has been presented differently! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am not surprised that the wage tax reform does not come, although in 1997 there was an additional wage tax revenue of nearly 100 billion schilling. But maybe you didn't go to the cold progression, you didn't. The social cold over cold progression can best be read in the eyes of the Minister for Finance: In this control situation, eyes only shine when it comes to the protected area. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! There are more and more social assistance beneficiaries in Austria, and Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger says – O-Ton – that: We stand there in international competition as well as ever before! I believe that he is thinking primarily of his own pension, which, in competition with the European Finance Ministers, has a lonely level, as we have been able to ask recently in the EU. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: But Mr. Prinzhorn! That's the same speech! You've kept them before!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is quite different in the OECD report. The competitive situation in the tax sector in Austria is such that we have a much higher than the EU average tax and tax rate. A permanent decline in our competitive situation is noted in the OECD report, but also in the IMD comparisons. Despite high economic conditions, despite 2.5 and 3 per cent growth, Austria is in the situation that the unemployed are increasing, early pensioners are increasing, the budget deficit remains unchanged, although the interest rate on our debt is as low as never before, due to low interest rates and unfortunately not due to low debt, and I therefore wonder: How should this continue in the competition of taxes in Europe? For example, the European Monetary Institute writes: For Austria, this means that the budget must be balanced from 1999 onwards – you can only dream of it, Mr State Secretary! – to push debt levels below 60 percent at an appropriate time. However, Austria currently has a budget deficit of 2.7 percent. Another increase in the tax burden is not possible, as the current tax burden is prejudicial to economic growth. – You will receive this confirmation from Brussels or this time from Frankfurt! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! They cannot press against the consequences of this policy. You are too young, you will experience the consequences. Perhaps the Minister of Finance will be retired, as will the Minister of Economic Affairs. The Minister of Economic Affairs said yes a few days ago: The problems after 1999 do not stifle me, that will already affect my successors. You, Mr State Secretary, would have the opportunity to launch a tax reform at international level within the framework of the EU Presidency of Austria. But what does the government do about this? – She is a larmoyant bitter in the direction of Europe, towards EU Member States: Please increase your taxes, increase your taxes, we Austrians do not create this competitive pressure! They point to the distortion of competition. Your German colleague Waigel, Mr State Secretary, sees this quite differently. You can see this from the example of the Petersberger tax proposals, but also from the speeches of your colleague in Germany from the last days. It does not share the Commission's view that this tax competition is hindering. He says: Just as we want to be autonomous in the design of our state expenditure, we need autonomy on government revenue. I cannot imagine another Europe, Waigel. Finance and, in particular, budgetary policy must remain the responsibility of the Member States after the transition to the euro. This is also the case with competition. In principle, a competition of tax systems should continue to be preferred – listen carefully!, it says: the preference! – far-reaching coordination or harmonisation of direct taxes. Mr State Secretary! This is a battle ground at Austria's economic location. They will not be able to stand up to this competition with a tax harmonisation. Waigel continues: Who believes we could limit global competition beyond the necessary basic regulatory principles for which we have always been international, with international tax arrangements, such as Oskar Lafontaine – your colleague! – it is always proposed that the negative response of the markets will be rapid, because, says Waigel, it is increasingly expensive to stop competition: taxpayers, consumers, workers, their jobs are still disappearing. This teaches the history of 200 years of market economy. – I think you can... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: A total confusion!]] I know, Mr President-in-Office, you are quite different, but I have to say to you again: Your colleague in Germany took place on 26 May. In May 1998 in Brussels, very interestingly reported on how the high taxation of corporate profits and, ultimately, the high level of taxation in the income sector lead to the loss of additional jobs. On the other hand, favourable fiscal conditions with additional jobs – listen carefully!, I know you are different – and are rewarded with the resultant tax revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You are too German-believer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Not every German is right!]] I know you've been stuck to the D-Mark, but you've always been Germany's model for economic policy, but now that you don't like it, don't answer the competition of the Germans. That is why you do not answer it because you do not know! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A clear net relief has Waigel to write to you in the main book: The entrepreneur is key to the release of dynamic growth forces from the economy, for one thing is also clear: Income tax is still important for 90 percent of companies as corporate tax rather than corporate tax. Therefore, with your argument that our corporate tax is too low, in no way can you make any points: not with small and medium-sized enterprises and not even with regard to personal income tax. That is why I say to you again: Take our question to the Minister of Finance seriously, Mr State Secretary, which we have today submitted for the implementation of the tax reform. What would result from a non-profit tax reform on the tax and tax rate if we first remove tax privileges, as you call them, on the first stage, then make a third tax package again and after the retirement of the Minister of Finance in 2001 carry out the tax reform? – That is not how we presented ourselves in 1996, and we do not imagine it today either. That is not what Europe tells you to do. Europe gives you a lower level of tax competition that you will have to face – or you will have to leave the European Union again. But that's the last thing we want! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! On the other hand, I find the use of these high means to be dramatic. We now have an explosion of tax revenue, which would be understandable if you were to secure pensions with the high tax rates at least – no talk about it! – if you would at least master the apprentice problems with high taxes – no talk about it! – if you would at least bring the research and development rate to the European average with the high taxes – no talk of it! – if you were to start at least a state reform with the high tax rates, which also costs money – no mention of it! You, Mr Ruttenstorfer, said in plenary a few days ago: The aim of our policy, including our economic policy, cannot be to reduce taxes – hear, hear!, I can only say that – and the aim of our economic policy is to create jobs. They have not yet made clear the relationship between tax reduction and job creation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I'm not surprised, Mr. State Secretary. When you propagated the euro, you said the Euro guaranteed economic growth. This confusion is similar to the confusion you have tragically made on a much more important subject, namely tax reduction and job creation. You should have said at the time: Economic growth secures Euro! But unfortunately, there is no way you could put the horse from the right side. There too, Mr State Secretary, you pick up the horse from the wrong side. Two savings packages were a successful pirate stroke, I admit: Numbers do the little people. Service cars of unlimited size continue to be tax-free – but only in the public sector, in the private, of course not! I therefore believe that, in reality, there are tax gifts only for government fidelity and not for private, free according to the motto: The economy is slowing down advance payments, providing the party with discounts to set up a loss premium for the economy, making Bank Austria retroactively hundreds of millions of schilling tax gifts about a subsequent change in the pre-tax deductibility of VISA credit cards. Bank Austria needs this urgently so that the printing media can get sufficient inputs, with the parties and the advertising of the party not too short as far as the eye is concerned! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what's the matter? Tax funds are also granted for the promotion of the press to any extent possible. There you can speak well, free according to the motto: Whom I ate, the song I sang! These are all the means of taxation, which I believe are unlawful – also against EU law! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] There is little money left for the payment of previous political culture, which you so often demand in these days. I am thinking of the WEB scandal in Salzburg and who came to the fore. I think of the "consumer" when the comrades went out of business and the union did not even think it right to use at least their BAWAG participation. This is the political culture that you live before us! You could take an example of the Freeman! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You don't have to think back that far! It's enough of the Rostingl!]] I know you don't want to. They do not want to share responsibility, just as our officers in Lower Austria do, who will help with their personal incomes to help us get out of this criminal miscarriage! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I know that you do not apply this solidarity. In contrast to you, we do not have the capital of red and black chambers and other cooperatives, with which you can naturally play. However, the dairy cooperative still records losses in three-digit million heights, Mr Klubobmann. However, purchase companies are supplied by employees of the NÖM cooperative in Germany with commissions, while the black cooperatives of the NÖM are empty. You must also have that written in the main book, and the comrades will sometimes pay you home! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your cooperative was particularly successful! There's a couple in the port for that! Your co-operatives are in the port!]] You don't need to talk big! Think of the red cooperatives, the kickbacks in social construction! Work with the kickbacks in social construction! 15 percent commission payments from social insurance companies enter your companies, account payments are not paid to the last beneficiary, but ultimately to a third party: That's how the housing promotion is used! That's what you're doing! Their red cooperatives are a dirt better than the black cooperatives in the dairy sector! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The small house builders will make their own reim on it when it becomes known what the funds from commission payments from insurance companies, from cash payments from suppliers are used for. These are all things that will be shown to you one by one! [[Abg. Marizzi: Don't promise anything! That's very expensive with you!]] Mr State Secretary! Finally, I can only say the following: Lock down the proportional privilege stadl that does not stop before tax money – whether it is the ÖVP or the bank-austria area of the Socialists! Reduce taxes, Mr State Secretary, instead of giving and distributing gifts to government! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9965	In response to the urgent question, Mr. Ruttenstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e9987	Mr President. High house! In response to the honourable Member's question to the National Council of the Dipl.-Ing. I would like to begin by saying that there is no serious empirical evidence that tax and economic performance, whether overall or per capita, are in a statistically significant context. We all know that within the European Union there are so-called high-cost countries with high per capita incomes, such as Belgium, Denmark and Sweden, which nobody will doubt, as well as low-income countries with low per capita incomes, such as Spain and Greece. Austria is the fourth-richest country in the European Union, with only slightly – not as you said – a significant tax rate above the average. For this reason, I do not believe that the high tax burden would be a real risk to the Austrian economic location, as you think it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The development of direct investment to Austria in recent years shows how attractive Austria is for international and national investment – not least because of its tax system. There is no question that we want to maintain this attractive tax situation for the site, but at the same time strengthen the incentive to increase employment through a reduction in the employment factor. This should contribute to a reduction in the tax rate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should also like to point out in this connection that, with regard to the statements made in the introduction of the urgent question, which the tax rate in 1996 would have amounted to 45.7%, this figure does not correspond to the current calculations of the statistical office of the European Union, the Eurostat. According to current Eurostat data, the tax rate in 1996 was only 44.2 percent. It was therefore 1.5 percent lower than is claimed in the urgent request. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And how high was she in 1997?]] It is also incorrect that the tax rate has increased by 3.8% between 1989 and 1996, as stated in the urgent request. It is true, rather, that the increase is significantly lower. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What? Where is he? How high is he?]] I also agree to note that a year of beginning for the time comparison with the EU average has been chosen, allowing a negative picture of Austria as far as possible. With a real ten-year comparison – and I think it is important to see that – from 1986 to 1996, the increase in the Austrian tax rate is significantly below that of the EU average. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also important to see the taxes related to transfers. The Austrian tax rate, which is slightly above the average, is not least due to the fact that, for example, family or child support in Austria is more social and female-friendly than is the case in many other countries. The fact that these are mainly carried out via transfers to mothers, and it should be noted that the amount of children's transfers in the national accounts and, consequently, in Eurostat's tax statistics, not as a deduction from income tax and wage tax, but as a transfer, at the same time increases the tax and transfer rate compared to an exemption or division system, although the aggregate, as you know, has the same effect on private income. However, it is clear that free money, but above all splitting models, do not favour high incomes much more strongly and low practically at all. Also a well-developed social security – which nobody will consider to be a disadvantage – leads to a higher tax rate. In this respect, the quoted saying is that the citizens of 1st century Countries until 12. On June 1st, only for the public sector, although populistly plausible, does not become more correct by frequent repetition, I mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the Austrians pay more tax this year than they did three years ago is fortunately due mainly to the fact that they deserve more than they did at the time. The gross domestic product will be nearly 300 billion schilling in 1998 above that of 1995, so that, with a constant tax rate, tax revenue would have increased by more than 120 billion schilling as a result of this growth alone. The revenue-based measures of the savings package have, of course, led to an increase in the tax rate. The Federal Government has never made a success of achieving about one third of the consolidation target of around 100 billion schilling in terms of the Federal budget by means of higher revenue. The invoices made by the FPÖ actually show that the tax impact of the savings package is rather lower. Now on the specific individual questions. Question No 1, which reads as follows: Do you share the view that the tax burden on Austrians over the last few years on Austria's economic location has a negative impact?: No, no, no, I cannot support this view, which is expressed in the question. On question 2: The slight increase in the tax rate has led to an improvement in the budgetary situation, by no means – and the data show this – to a deterioration in Austria's economic location – especially considering that in other European countries a much more restrictive budgetary rate than in Austria has been achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 3: As long as the Tax Reform Commission has not submitted any recommendations for the next tax reform and therefore at least the key values of this tax reform are established, any acceptance of any change in the tax rate speculation would be. I am therefore seeking to understand that I am not answering this question in concrete terms. On Question 4, which reads as follows: Is it true that you don't intend on the 1st? In January 1999 and 2000 respectively, can labour income be reduced by a reduction in wage and income tax?: The Federal Minister for Finance has already pointed out several times in this House – and I should like to point out once again – that it is intended to reform the tax system by 1. ................................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that this has already been made clear to the more often. Question No 5, which reads as follows: What concrete measures do you plan to take to reduce the wage and income tax rate?: At this time, i.e. before the publication of an interim report by the Tax Reform Commission, concrete measures cannot be discussed, because this would prejudge the outcome of the discussions of this Commission. On question 6: The tax reform committee should draw up proposals for a tax reform without external influence. A forecast of the amount of tax relief would be an unjustified pre-emption of the results of the deliberations. On Question 7: A high wage tax rate suggests a high rate of self-employment and a low unemployment rate, which is undoubtedly compatible with the attitude as a social democrat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not just!]] Questions 8, 9, 10 and 11: The Tax Reform Commission has the task of developing guidelines for a tax reform without any requirement, but also without taboos. In order not to presuppose the outcome of these discussions, an answer to these questions is currently not possible. No tax increases or tax reductions can be excluded per tax type – not in total. Questions 12 to 14: It is true that, in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference, the issue of discussion has also been raised in order to ease the so-called principle of unanimity. In addition to other areas, the subject of taxation was also concerned. Austria has supported this proposal because it would significantly facilitate Community coordination on tax issues or the creation of minimum tax standards at Community level. Such coordination is more important than ever in view of the third stage of economic and monetary union, in order to avoid harmful tax competition between the participating countries and ensure a balanced tax structure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that a single market requires a minimum of fiscal coordination between Member States. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Deputies! No complete standardisation is meant, but a minimum of coordination. The current VAT transition system, for example, is far away from an ideal state – you will probably concede that – because it is extremely administrative and also vulnerable. An improvement has so far failed with the principle of unanimity. I believe that it is necessary to promote harmonisation at European level in some areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 15: Their claim that the retroactive change in the VAT Act in favour of certain banks in order to give them a tax advantage is totally irrelevant. In fact, this change of law is a clarification of a question of doubt which has only been put into effect retroactively for simplification reasons, both on the part of the companies concerned and on the part of the financial management. Questions 16 and 17: Within the framework of the European Union, which we explained at the time, there is an option for credit card transactions whether they are subject to VAT or exempt from the tax. Both systems have advantages and disadvantages. Austria has, after in-depth considerations, taken up the work of § 6 para. 2 VAT law 1994 easier and more practical option decided. The change of law was required for reasons of clarity and clarity of tax laws. It cannot be estimated whether and to what extent there is a possible tax advantage for credit card companies. On questions 18 to 26 First of all, it must be noted that I cannot and must not answer this question because of the obligation to pay secrecy. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Some answer!]] In general, on the question of forbearance, it must be stated that the term "unfairness of collection" must be interpreted as an indeterminate term of law. In doing so, the standard of legal thinking must be laid down. In this connection, I refer to the administrative court's knowledge of the 8th century. ==References== The interpretation result may therefore be different, taking into account this highest judicial opinion. Inappropriateness may be factual or personal; also according to administrative court knowledge. Inconsistency may arise, for example, if a standard leads to an extraordinary or atypical asset intervention. As the Administrative Court has pointed out in its case law, it can be assumed that there is a fact of inadequacy if the collection would also mean an inadvertent result from the point of view of the legal provision in the individual case. The fixing of suspension interest rates may, in the case of longer-term appeals, lead to a burden which is not in a reasonable relationship at the point of dispute. For this reason, the collection of suspension interest rates can be considered unfair. However, the inadequacy of the collection can also be justified in the specificities of an event process; there is also a knowledge of the administrative court. For example: The procedure leading to the levy was disputed between the tax administration and the taxable person and was ultimately brought to the administrative court for a decision. As the applicants are likely to be aware, the Constitutional Court has the provision of the suspension interest regulated by § 212a para. 9 The Federal Tax Code has been abolished as unconstitutional, because the amount of the interest rate has been considered to be unconstitutional. With the Federal Law No. In 1993, 818 of the Constitutional Court had a legal view, with effect on periods after the 31st century. ==References====External links== On questions 27 and 28: There are no statistics on individual cases, which is why I am unfortunately unable to answer these questions. On question 29, which reads as follows: Have the external trade promotion contributions, which have been wrongly paid, been paid back to businesses in full? The external trade promotion contributions, which were unlawfully withdrawn as a result of the findings of the Administrative Court of Justice, were concerned with imports and exports of goods in 1994, for which the EEA Agreement was applicable, were reimbursed by the administration on its own initiative. The refund procedure could in principle be concluded by the end of 1996. In 1997 or the beginning of 1998, only more marginal reprocessing was necessary or only more the treatment of appeals. On Question 30, which reads as follows: What is the amount that has been reimbursed to the companies so far?: For the procedure referred to in the urgent question, which was carried out on the basis of the findings of the Administrative Court, the refund amounted to around 1 281 million schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 3 billion difference it was total!]] On question 31: Under the Federal Tax Code, which is to be applied in the given case, neither a interest rate of unlawfully non-refundable tax debts nor a interest on refund amounts is to be fixed. A change in this legal situation has not been envisaged at present. I'm allowed to sum up: I should like to make it clear that we are not pursuing a zigzag policy on tax issues, but rather a stability-oriented economic policy aimed at furthering the economic and employment location of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10153	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. Mr Böhacker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10177	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all: Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for answering this urgent question, I accept that this Federal Government is absolutely helpless on tax issues without the tax reform commission – helpless and "naked" like a little child! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, Mr State Secretary, you said that the tax and tax rate in 1996 was not 45.7%. I have an issue from Eurostat, which reads as follows: 1996 45.7% compared with 1989 41.9%. This is an increase of 3.8 percentage points or, rounded, of about 9 percent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is the truth now?]] Thirdly, The retroactive amendment of the VAT Act is a typical reason legislation. Mr State Secretary, you should also be aware that an audit has been carried out and that this audit is intended to require the corresponding pre-tax amounts. But it was only through the retroactive change of the VAT Act that it became possible that there was no million-severe repayment of turnover tax – and that against the background of the highest tax rate of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That looks different!]] Now, Mr State Secretary, on the so-called VP tax scandal, the tax gift to the Austrian People's Party. [[Call the ÖVP: What?]] I understand for legal reasons, Mr State Secretary, that you are calling on the duty of confidentiality. However, my understanding is limited when I think about how tax acts have been handled by the politicians of the liberals in the past. Who, then, has played the Federal Party Minister Dr. Jörg Haideran's tax bill to the public? – Jörg Haider certainly not! Probably someone from the ministry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr State Secretary! I can understand that you do not like to talk about making the Austrian People's Party a million-severe tax gift. It's clear to me! Only, Secretary of State: You really can't make it that cheap! In the "Current Hour" Mr. Stumblingly, the long duration of the procedure has been a massive criticism of the financial management. Isn't that right? That was in the "Current Hour". [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] I am right, honourable Member, only one has to ask why this matter has not been dealt with for so long. Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this tax gift, this forbearance of suspension interest, is contrary to the principle of equality of taxation. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not at all! There are many other cases too!]] This is a blow to the face of every ordinary taxpayer and leads to the creation of two classes of taxpayers and, in my opinion, contradicts the content and spirit of § 236 of the Federal Tax Code. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, the suspension of the delay in taxation after completion of the appeal procedure has been unlawful beyond the period of the complaint to the VfGH. [[Abg. Auer:... Rosenstingl!]] It is nice, Mr Auer, that you are creating a connex between the ÖVP tax policy and the Rosenstingl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Auer! For me, my former colleague Rosenstingl is a suspected criminal. If you want to compare the EIA with its tax policy in this respect, then this is your business – not mine! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! There is a great need for explanation for you on these issues, which goes far beyond the EIA. I'm glad DDr did. Kurt Neuner, supposedly an ÖVP tax advisor, in a letter dated 8. In June 1998, the facts on the VP tax scandal were clearly listed. Interesting is the following: In the spring of 1997, the competent financial office for corporate taxes sent the act to the Ministry with the request for an opinion. There has been nothing there for three years, Mr State Secretary. For three years, nothing has happened in the Federal Ministry of Finance in this Causa, the act is located somewhere, perhaps at the Secretary of State Ditz in the drawer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: An errant! As at the Rosenstingl!]] Maybe it's a mistake! – After these three years, the Ministry of Finance has found – this is a "epochal" statement! – that the first financial office should decide that it should do it itself. I know the staff, the senior officials in the Ministry of Finance, who are responsible for the field of sales tax, as excellent professionals, and I say to you one: Without such instructions or intervention, these highly qualified officials in the Ministry of Finance would not have needed three years to say that the Financial Office should decide. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, it took another one and a half years for the financial office to adopt the relevant decisions. In these three years, the tax delay has not been prescribed. It saved the ÖVP about half a million Schillings of interest because the tax amount was not prescribed. You could continue to play this: A total of seven and a half years the whole thing didn't work. Mr State Secretary! There were still many things to explain. For example: ==References== The suspension of the collection was abolished in October 1995. ==References== A new payment facilitation decision was issued on December 1997, two years later. What happened in these two years? What was the status of this delay: was it regulated or not regulated? Why have no measures been taken? And so on. This is a very "interesting" process, which "normal" taxpayers can only dream of! However, it must also be stated that according to § 212a of the Federal Tax Code, the authority should have been forced to withdraw the suspension. But there the authority has been sluggish – voluntarily, on instructions, with eye twinkling? I would have liked to know this from you, Mr State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I cannot imagine the fact that the reason for the forbearance of the suspension interest is watertight. Forbearance is only permitted if appropriate conditions are met. It is also interesting to note that it took years to complete the request for Forbearance, although § 311 para. 1 BAO states that the tax authority is obliged to decide on an application for for forbearance without undue delay. Mr State Secretary! What were the reasons for this delay, which was the reason why this request for consideration had not been completed for three years? Three years have been needed for this! In the law, namely in the Federal Tax Code, it says: "without unnecessary delay"! There are many reasons for this. Mr State Secretary! This tax gift to the ÖVP will not be understood by "Otto Normal Consumer", i.e. by the taxpayer. I would like to say the following: I worked for ten years in the financial administration, for almost three decades now I have been business loyals and tax advisors, but in these almost four decades I have not had a single case, which would have led to a forbearance of suspension interest or interest interest in negative assessment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10350	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10372	High house! I would like to turn to tax policy, which is, in fact, the essential point of this urgent question, and I must say that this question is a certain Déjà-vu experience: On Tuesday there was a current hour on this topic, today, on Thursday, there is a urgent request. The subject is the same; only the speakers have changed a bit. I don't know if that was an advantage. In any case: The whole thing wasn't very imaginative! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There's a statement from Winston Churchill, who once said: If a politician does not think anything more, he demands a tax reduction. – Obviously you have taken churchill as a model in this sense. You didn't think so much. However, it is important to clarify the following – and this is the point that the debate is supposed to be about –: It is for us as government parties, for the Secretary of State or for the Minister of Finance there is no question at all that there will be a tax reform. Of course, there will be a tax reform. We have already made this very clear and have now been clarified. The question is: Will it be a serious tax reform, a tax reform that is responsible, a tax reform that holds, and a tax reform that does not make it necessary to get the emergency brake back after two years? - That's our concern! Of course, we are in favour of a tax reform, but we are in favour of a tax reform carried out by seriality and responsibility, a tax reform which will bring relief to those who really need it, a tax reform that does not pose the risk of limiting public services, and a tax reform that does not go at the expense of the socially weak. This is the tax reform we are seeking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's certainly right and important to talk about taxes, but it's also important – and that's what you've been trying a little bit, though not quite as successfully, in your urgent request – to bring the question of taxation into a global context. They also count all other economic factors. For example, the question arises: How do incomes develop? This year, we will gladly be able to see a growth rate of 3 per cent in Austria, which means that we will have a very positive income trend. Even if there are signs of crisis in Asia, it is likely that Europe and also Austria will not be affected. It also raises the question of how social benefits will develop in our country. In this respect too, we in Austria have shown that we have been able to maintain the previous level and that, unlike many other countries, there is social peace and social stability in us. Finally, of course, we are also wondering how employment will develop. It is not to be denied that Austria, at a rate of 4.3% unemployment, has much better values than other countries, even much better values than many countries you have always mentioned here. On Tuesday, your party chairman showed me a study or a recommendation from Finland about what is done wonderfully there. I should like to point out to you: This your model country has an unemployment rate of 13.4 percent. Another country you mentioned, Spain, has an unemployment rate of 18 percent. Even the Netherlands, which is often used as a model here, remains significantly above Austria at an unemployment rate of 5.1 percent, although they have a large share, almost 40 percent, of part-time workers. This can certainly not be a model for Austria. I think we can be proud of our own achievements. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We are proud that we have succeeded in doing much more for employment in difficult times in Austria than others. That is what we can rightly be proud of! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to say a few words about the relationship between taxation and employment, which you have also mentioned. However, this context is not as simple as you have described it here. There was an incisive phase of tax reduction under Reagan in the USA according to the philosophy of the Laffer curve. The result was the largest budget deficit the US has ever had. In response to this, the US has increased the tax rates, interestingly in the area of the top rate of taxation and also in the area of capital income gains, taking into account – you yourself pointed out in your urgent request – that capital income gains in the USA are taxed significantly higher than in Austria. In addition, there has been an expansion of monetary policy and other measures. Overall, the share of income tax on gross domestic product is – and this is an interesting point! – in the U.S. about the same level as in Austria. However, the proportion of indirect taxes in the United States is much lower because they do not have VAT, as the turnover tax is lifted by the individual States. The big difference to the US lies in the area of social security contributions. In the US, only 7 percent of the gross domestic product is used for social security contributions. In Austria it is more than twice as much, i.e. 15 percent. That's probably what you call "the greedy public hands" in your urgent request. Only I believe that the majority of Austrians can say that a system of social security, as we have in Austria, even in higher social security contributions, is much better than an American system in which, although less social security contributions are paid, there is great poverty and insecurity in large sections of the population. I believe that we can assume that we have chosen the right path with good reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point is the relationship between taxation and labour and capital. There's an imbalance developing, that's right. In this respect, I can refer to a recent EU study, which also pointed out that between 1980 and 1995, the tax burden on the labour factor increased on the European average from 34.7 percent to 40.5%, while in the other production factors it decreased capital and independent labour from 44 percent to 35 percent. – This has also been illustrated in a graph. This means that the tax burden of the factor labour, the less mobile factor, has increased, while the tax burden of the factor capital, the more mobile factor, has fallen. This is precisely the result of the tax competition which you, Mr Prinzhorn, commend as the solution for Europe. The effect of this tax competition is that capital is being reduced and labour is increasingly burdened. If you want to, you have to say it clearly. We don't want to! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Do something about it!]] There are, as you know, also relevant proposals from the European Commission. There are proposals from Commissioner Monti for a single minimum source tax on interest income. There are proposals on corporate tax. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn: 20 percent! But soon it's already 25!]] You probably also know the Ruding Report with a minimum tax of 35 percent in the corporate tax field. – These are concrete proposals! That's what we're working for! This will be a focus of our work within the framework of the EU Presidency of Austria, which we have also announced. I would ask you – I believe that this is ultimately also in your interest – to support these proposals and activities. It is in all our interest that our state has sufficient resources to finance public services, and that the financing of public services is not only at the expense of the labour factor, but also of the capital factor. You, too, must vote in favour of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last point. It is true, of course, that in Austria and other countries we have a high burden, a relatively stronger burden on labour. There is therefore much to be done to reduce the tax burden on labour. However, I would warn against discussing this discharge without also considering how to manage its financing or what to do on the expenditure side. There is also a very clear empirical example: In the Federal Republic of Germany, as you know, as a result of this discussion, the total wage tax has been abolished. It was meant to create additional work with it. In the meantime, there are studies which show that exactly the opposite has occurred, because the payroll tax is, like us, a tax that benefits the municipalities. Although the municipalities were partially relieved by a share of turnover tax, not one too one, the result was that the municipalities had to limit their municipal investment, as a further consequence of the decline in overall economic demand and the overall employment situation in Germany was not better, but worse. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 100 percent tax! 100 percent jobs!]] This shows very clearly that, in the case of proposals for a relief of the factor work, it is necessary to pay very close attention to how this should be financed. [[Call to the liberals: I believe so too!]] Mr President, I should like to thank It's just dangerous to make proposals...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10491	Mr Novotny! I'm sorry, the lamp seems to have a defect. Your speaking time is only 10 seconds. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10512	Thank you, Mr President. I've been wondering how long you're gonna give me speaking time. But I would like to end this one sentence. It is dangerous to carry out tax reforms without taking into account the impact not only on the federal government but also on the countries and communities. We will only make such a tax reform that ensures sound and reasonable finances both for countries and for communities. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We owe this to the communities and countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10549	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Swimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have learned in my activity here in the house of one: If the representatives of the current "Society with very limited liability" – or should say: Contractors of this society – certain stimuli are used, one must take this very seriously. [[Rejoicing with ÖVP and SPÖ]] You usually have a different background than it is shown here. The people who have had to do with it, among the housing cooperatives with the beautiful names "Holiday Home", "Free Living", "Free Future", which were created in the dark circle of the FPÖ, clearly presented something different than then came out. If the contract staff of this "Society with very limited liability" about housing cooperatives – thank you for the keyword! – and talk of alleged inadequacy, then they want above all to distract from what happens in their own field. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] It is the non-profit cooperative "Free Living" that you have founded, a cartoon of what you want to subject and accuse others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Because she's so small, that's why!]] Thank you for the key word, Mr. Prinzhorn: "because it is so small"! Because she is small, she immediately managed to manage her basic capital, so there is nothing left at all. They say she's insolvent. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Although she is very small, she has nevertheless managed to write the same overcrowded fees to the tax advisor she would not pay and calculate extra. This made the small cooperative "Free Living" immediately. This small cooperative has immediately managed to violate the housing law that forbids any connection with construction companies. But the FPÖ has once again used as managing director an already convicted builder, who is 25 percent involved in fraud. - That's how it is at the FPÖ! Then solve the problems; I also registered that exactly. You have publicly declared that now you would "shoot" and then sell the cooperative with a small profit. They thus publicly announce a breach of law because you may sell shares in a non-profit building association exclusively at the nominal value. If you want to make a win, you obviously have some links in mind. That is not the case at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] They talk about a single case – just to light up your semantics further – and then it turns out that in this "individual case" there are still attached to Rosenstingl the Gratzer, the Rambossek, the Dinhopel, the Schimanek and as they all are called. No one knew anything about it! – Of course you knew. Mr Stadler also experienced it at the famous meeting in November. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true!]] Everyone has learned that there is something wrong with the Rosenstingl. Everyone has done it. I've listened very carefully to your calls today. Col. Aumayr said: After the elections, we'll laugh! - We know that. After the Lower Austrian elections, you laughed that you could cover it up to the elections. You did know, but you've led the voters around on the nose. – "He never lied to you!" has been documented. We all know what we have to do with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Colleague! Would you use this slogan for yourself?]] – Yes, but I’m not so arrogant to place it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] That's the difference! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then talk about tax records and tax gifts. I have only had a small documentation of FPÖ tax stories printed in all hurry. It's probably just an extract. Mr Böhacker told us here what he did not experience in his long history as an economic fidelity. Have you experienced in your history and in your practice as an economic fidelity, that a good worth an estimated 140 to 160 million schillings is given, that in the gift tax declaration the one-value of the good is opposed to the corresponding loads – moment, wait, Mr Böhacker, I ask you something more! –: the hunting right, the wood deposit and the fruit right, the life-long fruit right for another? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Böhacker.]] They know, as tax advisors, that others here in the house, for example lawyers, know that, if someone else has the right to be fruity, one has nothing more of the good at all. This results in a value of "hot" 1 400 s, for which you pay the gift tax. I have never had such a case before, but I assume that it has been done with right things until then. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you submit to the fee office that they have mismeasured?]] No, no, no, Didn't you listen to me? . I assume that by then everything has been done with right things, Mr Böhacker. But now comes the tax declaration of the recipient. Another has the right to fruit, he has nothing to do with it himself. In the tax declaration – and this is also recognised; has it ever been yours? – the losses from this holding, where the fruit right has another, are deducted from the political income. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's something else!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Well, these are two pairs of shoes!]] How's that going? When did you ever find yourself in your practice? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He really doesn't know himself!]] Because you are talking about tax gifts and tax evasions, now another example of this small documentation: In the other parties sitting here in the house – I think I can really speak for all other parties in this case – there are no officials who because of their activity for the party – I do not talk about a private case! – have been legally condemned in a financial criminal proceedings, as happened to a FPÖ clubman in Styria for the suspension of taxes and taxes in millions. The State Party Secretary has also been legally condemned in this context for forgery of evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Even in the Styria?]] – Everything only individual cases, everything only individual cases! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: All "blue thinst"!]] They've saved interest for years. In 1988, the FPÖ Federal Party leader had to pay over 3 million Schilling taxes, which it neither declared nor delivered between 1978 and 1988. In Styria there are also 2.2 million left for FPÖ. - These are tax records. You're right. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We pay them at least! We pay our taxes! They're not paying them!]] They have tried to withdraw taxes, otherwise there would have been no condemnation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr Colleague, be careful with the accusation of tax evasion! That's an intolerable premise! That's unlikely!]] Look, that's obvious! There was a judicial sentence! Rightful! I am not talking about a private case, so I do not even mention its name, but it is about the FPÖ who did not want to pay their taxes, which is why someone has been legally sentenced in a financial criminal proceedings. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We pay our taxes at least, you only cash!]] That's quite clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10838	The remaining speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10853	That is why it is also very interesting for Mr Prinzhorn to talk about the reserve bankerl here as a substitute, because otherwise the famous Members of the FPÖ would have spoken on this issue. May. Schreiner – no more! – would have talked about the tax burden, and of course the detector would have talked about alleged tax gifts to the ÖVP! [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] One case for two. Original poster from the district Destination: "Der Aufdecker, Member of the National Council Peter Rosenstingl". He would have talked about it. Now, Mr. Prinzhorn had to jump in for him. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has revealed himself!]] Dr. Krüger, because you're talking about cover: We can give up on such detectors. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We too!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: We too!]] We will not follow the example of the FPÖ, I can promise you this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can say quite clearly here. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] We will be in favour of a proper tax reform that will actually relieve those who are really diligent and virtuous. The ÖVP paid its taxes and charges on Heller and Pfennig. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But where? But from where?]] That's...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10952	Talk time, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e10967	That the procedure lasted longer was not up to us, we even raised a problem. We paid our taxes clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11006	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter. He's got the floor. [[Abg. May. Peter: (who makes himself at the lamp at the speaker's desk) Perhaps the pear is burned out, Mr President!]] That's damage to what you're doing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11049	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If I follow the debate this way, I am a citizen who pays his taxes, like the last one. I hope I'm not the only one who's still paying for it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: order call!]] I can call myself that. That's allowed, right? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Have you already made the 1997 tax declaration?]] Yeah, I did. Unfortunately! That's why I get the prescription. Mr State Secretary! You're right: Austria is the fourth largest country in Europe, and you are proud of it, I am proud that we are all proud of it. Thank God it is! Only this country is obviously so far and wide and beautiful and large that there are two very different worlds: There is the world of the successful manager of the large industry Ruttenstorfer, who has now become State Secretary, and there is the world of small-scale businesser Helmut Peter, who simply clearly finds a completely different reality. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] To the question that Princehorn asks you if the increased tax burden on the Austrian economic location is negative, you have simply answered with no. – You really have to live in another world! It is obvious that Austria's businesses are under a common cost pressure, especially in the 1990s, especially since the savings pacts, which has increased unheard of, and therefore they do not know which customers, which markets they find, are willing to pay for this cost increase. We are proud of the fact that you are successful in the industry, thank God, but I do not think that the service companies, the small industry, the small and medium-sized enterprises, who cannot pass on these prices easily, whose markets are not willing to pay these prices, do not know how they can cope with costs and prices. Mr State Secretary! You are right, of course, that in this way tax rate and economic performance have no negative correlation compared to what you have brought, but tax rate and growth have such a negative correlation. The states which Novo has mentioned in his very selective comparisons, which he has always made, are states which have very high economic growth and which have been in an unprecedented catch-up competition since their accession to the European Union. Of course, they have a problem with unemployment – Spain, Portugal, for example – but the economic growth of these countries has been by 4.5 percent higher than in Austria since the enlargement of the European Union; at present, this growth advantage has been reduced to 2.2.5 percent. I therefore believe that, in the long term, the tax and tax rate will obviously have a very substantial impact on the economic development and growth prospects of a country, because the government revenue you achieve with the tax and tax rate will obviously have a lower multiplier than if the money in the private sector is available as a private consumption, as a demand in the economy and therefore has much higher employment and growth multipliers. So so simple, I mean, if you want to have a fair discussion, you can't make it that you just wipe it off the table and say the tax and tax rate doesn't matter. Agreed! Why don't you increase them to 50 percent if it doesn't matter anyway? Can it be a little more? 51? Where's the border? Why, Mr State Secretary, do all the other countries that have already been well over 50 percent try to get away from it? Sweden, Finland were mentioned. They do everything they can to get down from this high tax and tax rate and thus have more purchasing power in the population and thus higher multipliers to boost their economy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr State Secretary! If the opposition asks you what the tax reform is and you reply lapidar with a reference to the Commission, then you will have to be pleased that at each plenary session some form of parliamentary instrument will be taken again, finally to ensure that this House will be informed about the plans of the Federal Government, about how it intends to shape the Austrian tax landscape. You can't believe just because you have a two-thirds majority, You let the opposition in this house die stupid, and we, as your Majesty, obedient opposition, let us also like this! Yes Believe You really do? You will probably have to make the effort to put forward proposals here in this House, to start the discussion in the Financial Committee and also to include the opposition in the decisions on how to create taxes in Austria in the future. The Minister of Finance, your direct Boß, obviously operates mists. I only learned this term stupidly yesterday from colleagues, so I repeat it right away. [[Secretary of State Dr. Ruttenstorfer: How was that? Fogs?]] The last term was "thrown of fog." One of the coalition parties is stupid, so you can take that up. You're learning to do that! [[Abg. Fading: If you have so much fog, you will soon have no more in the "White Rössl"!]] Mr President. This is not part of the subject, but I must correct the call by Mr Vergestnich: The Wolfgangsee is fog-free. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Always?]] Yes, please, for the record. But what is it really about? Your Minister of Finance tells us every two or three days about the newspaper that the tax reform will actually be postponed and that it can only be more small because the family reform had already been, and this tax reform takes place if, rather, in 2001. I am grateful and will hold that – we will read it in the Minutes – that you at least told us that it is for the first time. In January 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Edlinger tells us something else every third day in the paper. Just as you cut a salami ever smaller, nothing remains of the tax reform. What's your problem? And that was more than the semantic error that we were able to discuss with each other at the current hour, Mr. State Secretary, because you are saying: Creating work – reducing taxes. They have already contradicted themselves in the current hour and today. To create a job means to increase the income of labour. This is a demand-oriented policy, which is a policy aimed solely at increasing income, which, of course, leads to an explosion of imports in an open economy, according to Ruttenstorfer. You know that. A location-oriented policy, a supply-oriented policy, a policy that also makes the location more attractive through tax reductions, is a policy that in addition stimulates the export economy and then goes into income on the proceeds of exports and also balances the balance of payments and current account. In an open market within the European Union, you can no longer carry out a conventional national economic policy, but you can only pursue local policy within this European Union, which can necessarily pursue a demand-oriented policy. So your words at the current hour. Nevertheless, you have translated the very comprehensible acronym "Creating work – reducing taxes" into it. Tax will be reduced You can only do so if you lower expenses. That's the accusation of the opposition, and that's what Princehorn accused you. You haven't reduced any costs, you haven't changed any structures. That's the problem why you need the high taxes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Please note: You will not have more than 3 percent of economic growth in the long term – you will not keep the 3 percent – but at this time you will have an additional new debt in the budget of 2.7 percent. What do you do if economic growth breaks down – God means’ abhit’n! – what do you do when the Asian crisis and the Russia crisis strike through to Central Europe – God means to heat off! –, then what are you doing? Increase taxes even further so that you can achieve the Maastricht objectives? And these tax increases will not play a role in economic development in that country? Mr State Secretary! I mean, you made it too easy to answer this question. Overall, a highly developed country with a high social network will naturally have a higher tax and tax rate than an underdeveloped country. I agree with you. But if you lose sight of this and lose sight of your own dynamics, which has a tax and tax rate, you will seriously endanger the economy. And that can't be in your interest!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11166	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Will you be back?]] The clock's working again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11196	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter! It's really more complicated even than you believe. The relationship between tax rate, tax rate and economic growth is not as you say. I'm sorry. [[Abg. May. Peter: I like to listen to you!]] If the tax rate exceeds any level, we just don't know which one – you have brought this example – if it's somewhere at 100 percent, it won't be particularly economic growth-friendly, because who's going to break up? That's right. But just as you assume that a tax rate of zero would be somehow optimal – you've brought in such a naïve multiplier analysis – that's not true either. I only give you a simple example, which, of course, does not prove anything, because it is statistical effects and individual comparisons with certain countries can never bring anything anyway in certain periods. I only bring it to you because you seem to believe that there is a clear link between tax rate and growth. Both of us are old enough to remember half how it was in Austria in 1950, 1960. Austria has always had a relatively high tax rate after the war since we had these statistics. It was lower than now, but it was higher than in the EU, in the then EC, it was surely higher than in the United States. And how has economic growth been in the last 40, 50 years compared to Austria – USA? We now have virtually the same per capita income. So Austria's economic growth, where it started more or less at zero in 1950, must have been much higher than in the USA. I can't answer what it really matters now. It is much easier to say what it seems to be not a matter of statistically. It is likely that the tax structure is much more important than the tax level – apart from what happens if certain thresholds are exceeded. On the other hand, I do not understand your complaint about the high level of corporate taxation. [[Abg. May. Peter: Where is the threshold?]] I don't know. I don't know. I can only say: Each OECD statistics has been showing for 20 years each year: Corporate taxation in Austria – especially corporate tax or even independent income tax in Austria – is low in international comparison. Unfortunately, I can't help you. [[Abg. May. Peter: I didn't complain!]] You have already complained how terrible it is for the poor entrepreneurs in Austria! My colleagues at the university always say: Learn to complain without suffering! This is the first entrepreneurship principle! This is not meant for you personally. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Firnberg always said that!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The sentence comes from Mrs. Firnberg! She always said that about the professors!]] It's possible. This certainly applies to the professors. So the structure of taxes will be important, and the second thing that matters with certainty is the use of taxes. As a matter of fact, I have lost some sense of desire to deal with urgent questions when the question begins with the following sentence – I would like to suggest that the tax rate is too high in our opinion; that is in any case undisputed; no political party advocates tax increases; okay, almost none – but cruciturks, Mr Prinzhorn, why do you write: [[Abg. May. Stadler: But Novotny didn't say that!]] "It follows from this high tax rate that the citizens of 1st century ==References== June alone must work for the greedy ‘public hands’ and only the rest of the year for itself.” It's a nonsense! You know that just like me. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: It's really not such a nonsense!]] Let's go through for a second. I didn't have statistics there, I've only got a picket there and make it out of memory. Pensions: about 16 percent of GDP, health sector: will be a total of 10 percent of GDP, universities – cheap – 1 percent, the German army: 1 per cent – since you always want to increase to 2.2.5 per cent of GDP –, unemployment support: to be 2 per cent, further care money, housing promotion, schools. Together, this is certainly at least 35 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Aumayr: Employers' contributions!]] I have not yet said a word about justice. You want to spend more and more. I have not yet heard that you want to spend less on road construction. You want to delete all the agricultural subsidies? Interior Ministry, Police, Gendarmerie: You want to spend more and more. Then there would be small posts – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomacy – and large posts such as family subsidies with about 2% of GDP. When I add this up, I am already 41 percent of GDP in total, and the tax rate is 44 percent. Now there's something left, but I just want to say, To discuss the reduction in the tax rate in a meaningful way is, in fact, simply to discuss extremely laboriously a reduction in the expenditure ratio. And I've never heard of you before. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But yes! Every speech!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Every speech! We're always talking about spending!]] Please, the service car discussion – how I can't suffer it! Let's all ride the bike! Do you know how much that saves? I've never heard of you before. I know: More! Police: More! Agriculture: More! Justice and all the security needs, I know: More! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You never watch out! That's not true! We want to distribute it better!]] We trust to say back and forth: Please, people, especially respect for the building of houses and so on, but every year spend more than 1 percent of GDP on housing promotion – is that the right priority? Maybe the wrong policy is. Maybe that's why we get so few votes and so many of you. But here in Parliament I would have liked to discuss these matters seriously and not with these tribal arguments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11374	The next speaker is Mr Reinhart Gaugg. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11398	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today the slogan appears to be issued: By increasing taxes, we create jobs. Probably, Mr. Novotny – yes, he said that in his remarks – is now back at the university and explains to his students how this works. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what Novotny said!]] Only: The practice looks different. At Mr. Novotny I always feel like I'm in a wrong movie. He's always talking about how paradisaic it is with us. Apparently he has never met an unemployed person or an early pensioner in his life. This sick system that you have to answer is the cause of the present situation. Whether the current unemployment rate is 4.3 or 4.5 percent does not matter. The actual unemployment is another, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. They seem to be Klubobmann – as long as the coalition remains. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How long is this the Stadler?]] Today, even the Federal Chancellor had to come to survive this fragile coalition. [[Abg. Smolle: Who is the new financial officer at the FPÖ?]] Now to one who's going out to fuck us: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Do you know what I think you are? - A fool! - I'll explain that to you, too. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's unheard of!]] They are one of those who through this system have advantages and privileges like no second. If the forced members of your social security institution could, as they wanted, you would hunt them with a wet squat. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: order call!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are one of those who, by virtue of this system, have been employed for years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's right!]] You are a fossil of a...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11497	Deputies! That's not how it is! Expressions like "Dummkopf", "Fossil" and so on do not belong to the language of this house! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There you suddenly become sensitive!]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11530	Then I quote Bruno Kreisky and say he's a stupid man. It's really adventurous! Especially those who "gaze" us from above to bottom from this speaker's mouth and criticise the financial system – which seems to be making bad tax laws, since they do not have to pay taxes for a big asset, what annoys him – this system, which he has built up with, benefits to the most disgraceful. And such a person cannot be criticized for God’s sake?- Oh, my God! But he has almost become victims of his policy himself and has only survived because he probably knows too much about the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are talking today about the reduction of taxes and the creation of work, but he has nothing better to do than pour us. Mr Hochtl will also be grateful to you, Mr Schwimmer, for it is exactly the same with him. For ten years he received 40 000 S per month for not entering the university, according to the motto: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 9 million schilling!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Here you become sensitive!]] We pay you everything, but stay away from us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's your way of politics, you've done it for years and decades like this: WBO, WEB, Sauerzopf and – what is the name of the one who has been "re-spirited" in Thailand for years and now wanted to run the Federal President's election? Why didn't you sign for him? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You should be ashamed!]] It's too adventurous! They believe that you have taken the truth. But you're from this system you can't say goodbye to. Forced members recruit, cast high gags, sit in this house and give nonsense of themselves, that's your way of making politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will never report on social security issues all year round, because you are not interested in all this. You're never here either. But in a urgent request to the Federal Government to "shake" and play the offended, the time is too bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I'll tell you that with all the clarity. Please explain to us why the tax rate in Austria is 45 percent! In Holland it has been reduced by 5 percent. This is not the case with us, it is stressed again and again, as 1 percent of the reduction is already costing 25 billion schillings. Where is your policy of tax relief for the citizens of this country? Where is she? She's been announced for years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Cuisine-Diz-Course!]] Where is a forward-looking income policy? - Shh! - This is a good clue. I read with great interest that Mr Ditz now has enough of the post – it seems to be unable to enforce itself there – and, as news reports can be found, that he should switch to the EVN as the director of the board. That's very interesting! The "qualification" he owes to the fact that he was sometime State Secretary. That is why he is particularly well aware of energy issues. – Too adventurous! I still wish myself people like Ditz & Co, because then we will win elections in the future. This is essential and important to us, not your "pockets" in the high house. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Where's the tax truth? Where is the tax reform? It is now supposed to have been postponed by a year. Where is the concept of reducing the factor of work, which is constantly being spoken of? Where is it? Make a suggestion! Reduce the social security contributions. There are, besides you, a lot more privileges in this Republic. A lot of privilege riders... thank you, my dear colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (to a group colleague point out) He needs a few minutes left!]] I would like to continue with Mr Schwimmer's question of privilege, and I will do so with enthusiasm in the next debates.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11714	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11739	Mr President. There is no need to address these insults, they are self-evident. Mr Gaugg has made the claim that I had spent years with unemployed people. I'll put it right: I have never received a jobless income in my life, I exercise my profession, and I have a collective contractual salary, which is accordingly reduced because of the exercise of the mandate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Amon said that, you party friend!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Amon said that! The Amon!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are a multifunctional, he said! A fossil!]] Despite shortened references, I fully respect my function. This is for you, Mr Mag. Stadler, to prove, I read to you a letter addressed to you – with the address "Gebietskrankenkasse" – in which it is also about the reduction of interest in default: [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Amon says that!]] Dear Dr. Schwimmer! Today we received a letter from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, in which we were informed that the association had the interest in delay... [[Abg. Böhacker and Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's no more correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11821	Deputies! They have already presented the facts to be corrected and the response. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He wants to patch around!]] This concludes the correction. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Dr. Schwimmer.]] The next speaker was Mr Heindl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e11870	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Above all, we should first deal with the issue of the tax location and the related framework conditions. It was interesting to hear three different personalities: the entrepreneur Prinzhorn, Professor Van der Bellen and the entrepreneur Peter, who calls himself "small entrepreneurs", but he is a skilled entrepreneur. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Small business driver!]] I do not polish, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said it himself!]] Allow me to appreciate someone as I see him myself. – Three positions and three different opinions. You can now discuss the tax rate, which my friend Novotny has already done. I would like to point out, in your statement of reasons, that you are dealing with the aspects of export situation, location situation and pressure on companies and may also quote – you have also quoted a few times – how international institutes see Austria and how our results are in themselves. I do not think we need to discuss the facts, they are on the table, because, as I hope, we always have the same documents. Recently Austria became a member of the rating agency Standard & Poor’s. the Triple A confirms that Austria has improved its unit labour costs by 10 percent over the last three years compared to all its average trading partners and competitors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The price competitiveness – in which I believe we are united – manifests itself in hourly productivity. Our hourly productivity improved by 16 percent between 1996 and 1998. In the course of the structural change of the last 20 years, i.e. to take not only the last two or three years, a longer period, productivity has been rapidly increased. Only Ireland was able to exceed this pace. All other industrialized countries – whether Germany, Japan or Switzerland – are partly behind Austria. Let me quote, my colleague, I have little time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Why do we fall down all the time?]] I've been listening to you, too. An investigation clearly shows that industrial production increases in Austria are significantly higher than in Germany. Between 1970 and 1990, Austria's enterprises were able to increase labour productivity by 38 percent. - Is that bad? Of course, it can be said that this is still too little and that it should have been 50 percent. But it's a success story, there's no discussion at all. Mr Prinzhorn! According to a recent survey of Austrian economic operators, which was not made by us but by the Industrial Association, Austria's economic location is generally assessed positively. In particular, high quality of life, stable social and political conditions, skilled and operational workers are highlighted and labour costs for highly qualified workers are more average to below-average. It is also to be said that the relatively high labour costs for low-training workers are being criticized. Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion is: As always one sees the individual positions – whether tax matters or other issues of burden or other framework conditions – Austria has a number of valuable qualities as an industrial location that are interesting for international companies and investors. You will say: How do you have this certainty? But I'm replying: Why else should someone invest in Austria? Foreign investment in Austria, which amounted to 40.5 billion schilling in 1996, amounted to 13 billion in the first quarter of 1998 alone, i.e. they will certainly rise to 45 to 50 billion schilling this year. Foreign investors bought domestic securities – i.e. shares of Austrian companies – worth 95 billion schilling, and last year it was 54 billion schilling. Mr Prinzhorn! Would you be shopping in a country where it is as bad as you explain it? I can't imagine. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: (keeping a graphic in height) Why do we go down in the competition like this? That must have a reason! Go in on that!]] I should like to add, Mr Prinzhorn. If I had time, I would be happy to have a discussion with you about a longer period of time, because I am convinced that there are things you need to critically question and improve – no question. But let us not discuss those things that are in order! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: These are just facts!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You criticise the poor export development in your request statement. I can only say that we have never had an export quota of 28.5 percent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: We are also making progress!]] We've never... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Against the Germans! But they're...]] Mr President, these are facts. That means we're on the right track. They say nothing has happened. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Pühringer has recently said that the measures of the export offensive have already been partially implemented or implemented. It is also in the current programme of the export offensive that – as you will confirm to me as a successful company leader – human capital on the one hand – I am completely relieved of your opinion – needs to be improved at the same time. The service sector has a future if Austria can continue to offer workers who are multilingual and have quality. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: You're kidding!]] Then we are asked, then we are as competitive as in the past! I won't let you discuss that with me. That's our chance! And since our policy is in order, we have success in this sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Your colleague, Farnleitner, says we are a developing country!]] I don't know anything about that. In this respect, you need to talk to Minister Farnleitner. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because the universities are in 30th place, like Morocco!]] I explained my position to you. However, we have not only put in place appropriate measures in recent years, but we will also decide something again today, namely the export funds. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We are finally in research!]] We have already decided on some amendments yesterday. So, in total, something happens. And I do not deny that success lies primarily with the entrepreneurs and their employees. We must create the framework conditions for this, and we must not make this country, Mr Prinzhorn, and its framework conditions bad. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: No! We don't make them bad! I'm just referring to the international climate!]] You're good! Where they are to be improved, we should do that, but we don't do it where they're not bad. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12094	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12115	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Heindl! It's quite nice when you add up the positive points, but you also have to face the negative points. [[Abg. Eder: Kästle expands badly!]] Our growth is below the average of EU countries, as is the government debt and bureaucracy or the bureaucracy index. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The competitiveness factor is also below the EU average. These are facts that must also be mentioned. [[Call to the ÖVP: There come the tears to you!]] The export situation has improved thanks to the environment that has arisen. But that must also be said. Mr State Secretary! You have argued in your remarks that the tax rate mentioned by us is correct. Our number is that of EUROSTAT and ÖSTAT, which rose from 44.8 to 45.7 percent. I may be able to tell you about the discrepancy of those numbers that your house has announced. ÖSTAT and EUROSTAT are used in their calculation of the European system of national accounts. However, the Ministry of Finance, from which your number comes, is based on the national economic tax rate – a purely Austrian calculation, which is not comparable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! I do not believe that there is a significant link between the tax rate and employment. Because all countries are trying to reduce this quota in order to compete in the site and thus create jobs. This must, of course, go hand in hand with structural reforms. A reduction in the expenditure ratio, as Professor Van der Bellen mentioned, would be correct. But that's exactly what you refuse, Mr. State Secretary. A number of states show that things are different too. I would like to give three examples: Ireland and Holland have significantly reduced the tax rate below the EU average. – Both have above average economic growth, falling government debt and declining unemployment rate. New Zealand, a non-EU country, has also pushed the tax rate below the European average with an intensive structural change. – The result is: 3 per cent budget surplus, 200 000 new jobs, 13.1 per cent annual total investment compared with 3 per cent in Europe and even 2.3 per cent in Austria. It is clear from this, Mr State Secretary, that the reduction in the tax rate in other countries, which we have called for for for for years, has led to a very positive development. I do not understand that you are against it. Obviously you want to leave these measures by a government under Jörg Haider. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Now he will be head of state, not more German chancellors!]] Mr Novotny is not present at the moment. As an example, it has led Finland with an unemployment rate of 13.1 per cent, but it has forgotten that Finland, after losing 40 per cent of its exports due to the collapse of the Soviet Union, had an unemployment rate of 22 per cent, but this figure fell from 22 per cent to 13.1 per cent within six years. This is a performance that the Finns have accomplished! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: halved!]] A further point on Mr Novotny's comments: It warns against a tax reform without countercalculation. – What knowledge! We or – better said – you will pass laws on every plenary day without cost billing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to conclude. A tax reform is urgently needed! I think that's undisputed! However, there must be no tax increase. This tax reform requires a clear relief of the labour factor, the alternative energies have to be given a chance of development, and businessmen have to be given the opportunity to stay at Austria's economic location. [[Abg. Eder: Everything happens!]] Mr State Secretary! Believeful answers to our urgent request have not been given – with all due respect – today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12273	The next speaker is Mr Kaufmann. The clock is set to 5 minutes. I'll give him the word. In addition, I am now opening up, as I hear that applications are still being submitted. I would ask myself not to put them to the very end. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12297	Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr. Ing. Nutbaumer, I don't know where you're taking your prognosis and number comparisons. The last economic forecast of the Wifo of March 1998 is as follows: Growth is higher than OECD average in Austria. It was expected to be 2.7 percent for 1998 and 3.0 percent for 1999! In the OECD average, values have been 2.3 and 2.5 percent over the last two years. So Austria is growing above that! [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: I didn't mention that! Heindl said that!]] The inflation rate has been as low as ever for decades, the unemployment rate is less than half the EU average. What's the other thing but a success? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Heindl has already explained this very precisely, so I would rather turn to the subject of tax reform. It is constantly asked whether there is a tax reform or not. You know very well that the Socialist Group has voted in favour of a tax reform, and you have today heard from the State Secretary repeatedly that there will be a tax reform. This tax reform, which is also our common objective, will be within the scope of the consolidation objective, because it is also clear to medium and small income recipients that no one has anything of it if the tax reform is excessive and social taxes should then be reduced again. This framework must also be clearly defined. Of particular importance is the fact that there is a clear priority within this possible framework, namely that wage tax reform must be a priority, and that does not seem to be the case with you. Mr Gaugg, of course, is always talking about wage tax reform. While Parliamentary Prinzhorn also spoke about the wage tax reform, it was no longer in the first place, and other tax reform points were more in the foreground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] We have a clear priority: wage tax reform and the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This priority is fair because wage tax has increased by 95 percent over the last ten years and profit-dependent taxes by 47 percent. It is fair because some of the entrepreneurs still lack some contributions from the last package, such as Road-pricing, Minimum Kiss et cetera. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: You said that before the savings package! And what was after the savings package?- Oh, my God!]] This tax reform is therefore fair. Furthermore, this wage tax reform is also certainly the best possible impetus for the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. It may not benefit the export-oriented industry so much, but it does benefit the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria because it is an impetus to demand and more demand for the Austrians is certainly helping these small and medium-sized enterprises the most. Finally, one point I would like to refer to by default at each tax discussion: Mr State Secretary! There is, of course, also black money where there is organized black work by companies, and where there is black money, there is something missing from the tax. If we are talking about a tax reform, then we must also see that there is a large pot where additional revenue can be created, especially where taxes are withdrawn, i.e. in the case of turnover taxes, when we speak of "non-profit transactions" and in the field of undeclared work. I believe that the last step must be a major boost in a tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12365	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. The remaining speaking time is 6 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12387	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous colleague, Kaufmann, has rightly advocated a tax reform which is primarily concerned with a reduction in the wage tax. There is no objection at all, or that word should be accompanied. Mr. Kaufmann! However, this tax reform would have long been necessary. If you are thinking of the determination of the various stages of progression that have remained unchanged for years, when you remember that, by means of cold progression, the micro- and medium-earners have grown into higher stages of progression, and only because of this title has an almost 100% increase in wage tax revenue in the Republic of Austria, then you have to ask yourself the question of what it is like with slogans like "We do not raise taxes! Everyone should get at least as much as they have in the past!" in fact has it in itself. The fact is that year after year, as a result of the progressive construction of the wage and income tax scale, more and more small and medium-sized earners come to higher rates of progression, and therefore they are much less determined net and taking into account inflation. If Mr Kaufmann speaks of the need for a tax reform and I think of the ideas expressed by members of the Tax Reform Commission, then I must say that this announcement of a tax reform can be understood as a dangerous threat. For if we are talking about how members of your Tax Reform Commission have to hear that the basic tax should be increased from the unit values to the actual traffic values and, moreover, an annual levy of one percent of this increased basis of assessment should be lifted, then this is nothing but a cold expropriation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Heindl! In the field of construction, I'm sure you'll give me the right. Someone who has a family house with a traffic value of 4 million schillings is expected to pay 40 000 s annually. That is to say, every righteous Austrian who has understood it, through construction savings contracts, through overtime he has done, to acquire property, a dwelling, a family home, is then obliged to buy his house again over generations, over a period of 100 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr]] That cannot be the seriousness of this tax reform commission. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you distance yourself from this, we would like to take note of it, but this idea has been expressed by this tax reform commission, and it was not a word of the Dementi from the circle of SPÖ politicians to hear. [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: There will be many Dementi!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not just about those who have managed to buy an apartment or a family home. It's also about the tenants, about the little tenants. You know, however, that under the provisions of the rental law, the basic tax is rightly part of the burden on the entire interest-rate house and, of course, this basic tax is prescribed by way of operating costs. That means that there is also an incredible burden on tenants and an increase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] Mr Heindl! Then come to the speaker's desk and, as an economic speaker on behalf of your group, distance yourself from these meagre ideas, which in truth bring a expropriation of the Austrian! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He can't do that!]] But while on the one hand the control screw is increasingly turned in the way of cold progression and the individual taxpayer gets hardly more air, it was rightly pointed out – this is also to be read in the urgent request – that there are on the other hand some in this country that are more equal than the same. Bank Austria, for example, has already been mentioned. After that, there was a million-height tax sugar to save revenue tax repayment – say and write 600 million. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 600 million!]] And it is true that just as the foreign media and the economic media judge the Bank of Austria and the state of the Austrian economic policy. We are the only country in the Western sphere where a bank holds its own government. That is the truth, and that is why it comes to this sugar tax. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: From the ÖVP's circle today, it has been argued that everything is in order in this tax base and in support of the suspension interest. Mr State Secretary! I have to tell you one thing: The fact that you do not reveal the facts here is due only to the fact that you will not be released by the ÖVP from the silence and not from the data protection. What else does the ÖVP have to hide? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: What else do you have to hide?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It would have required only a removal of data protection and confidentiality, and the Secretary of State would have been able to explain the matter on point and by letter. But fact is, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12497	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12512	... that, taking into account the rules, some are more equal than equal to saving millions at the expense of the small taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12540	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Do you want to set a speaking time? - No, I don't.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12561	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After my colleague Van der Bellen, in my opinion, made very good and important comments on the tax quota in the course of the debate, which was very unacademic, I would also like to make a few comments – I am not an academic – on the issue of self-employed or competitive factor or freedom index, and on the continuation of what Mr Van der Bellen said. Mr Nußbaumer has already referred to this. The low rate of self-employment, which is often cited as an index for the poor development of Austria's economy, says nothing at all. There are countries with a very high self-employed rate, for example in Europe Greece and Spain, and there are countries with a very low self-employed rate – even lower than in Austria! – These are, for example, the US. Do you really want to say seriously that the US, which likes to be used as an example of economic dynamics, is less developed than Austria or that Greece and Spain are better developed in terms of economic dynamics than Austria? Mr Nußbaumer, I do not think so. One should be very careful about this because these indicators... [[Abg. Haigermoser: In the Soviet Union, your spiritual home, there were no self-employed at all!]] Mr Haigermoser! The Soviet Union no longer exists. Maybe that's something that's passed away from your history. The Soviet Union is no longer there. There has been no self-employed in the former Soviet Union. This, of course, applies equally to the competitive factor. There are wonderful, beautiful international rankings, which are constantly being roomed together, from which you get certain factors by which you try to measure the economy of a country. I would like to give you an example of a particularly successful ranking: The World Economic Freedom Index, which is also produced in Switzerland, in Davos, shows how high the degree of freedom of the respective economy has been developed, and, for Austria, results in a not very encouraging result. We are somewhere between the twentieth and the thirtyth place. I made the effort to find out why. Some factors are used to assess, and the reason why Austria is supposed to cut off so badly in its economic freedom is the fact that we have a military obligation, a military obligation to the German army. And the country that best cuts off in terms of economic freedom is Singapore. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: Overregulated, that's what you're interpreting!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to exchange with Singapore or with the second party. Somewhere in Singapore, I would like to do so, but I do not want to be at home in Hong Kong or Singapore, given the current economic situation and political freedoms. [[Abg. Kiss: In Singapore you are by the pool, not by the beach!]] Mr Kiss! I don't understand your excitement. [[Abg. Kiss: In Singapore you are by the pool and not by the beach!]] I can't understand you, you need to speak louder. Their vocal cords are probably already upset by the debate. I understand. I would also like to conclude this trip. I have learned that it is easy to prove the bad economic situation on the basis of some factors, indices, and yet nothing is proved or disproved. I have learned in the debate that some so-called small entrepreneurs, such as Mr Peter or Mr Prinzhorn, come out here, put their pockets outside and say that there is nothing inside, we are being robbed of the Austrian State, of the Fiscus. On the other hand, I know that there are groups in the population who, when talking about robbery, are much more robbed in view of their so low income – in which I too will not object to Mr Peter and probably also Mr Prinzhorn. I would now like to give you an example of this because this also involves a corresponding motion for a resolution. This is about rental aid. The rent rate aid is regulated by the Income Tax Act and limited by 100 000 s. If the annual income exceeds this amount, there is no interest aid. So far, and in recent years, it has been true that the beneficiaries of compensatory allowances have still enjoyed this rental aid. Now the compensation allowance is slightly over 7 900 S gross. Net, i.e. after deduction of the health insurance contribution, remains an amount of about 7 600 S, as colleague Feurstein knows. 7 600 S monthly! Of these, thousands of people have to live in Austria. The problem is that the state knew very well that there are these problem groups. There are postal and telephone charges and a number of other measures, including the possibility of renting aid for these groups which they could benefit from. However, the interest rate aid or the limit on the rental interest rate aid has not been changed since 1984 compared to the annual adjustments to postal and telephone charges. He has remained the same since 1984. Therefore, in recent years, it has been found that even the beneficiaries of compensatory allowances have no longer benefited from this rental aid. And one of these compensation judges explained this very precisely his income situation to me. By making it a prototypical example, I also call you very briefly the numbers. In 1997, the compensation allowance amounted to 7 591.20 S net, i.e. after deduction of health insurance. – These persons also count on the sizes, because they too are necessary for them. In 1998 it was 7 692,30 S, again after deduction of health insurance contributions. In 1997, this person received a rental aid of 923 S. The rent amounted to 1 963,38 S in 1997 and was also included in the large amount, and 1998 2 022,17 p. 1998, but the rental interest aid was lost because the limit of 100 000 S was exceeded. In other words, the person concerned had available in 1997 after deduction of the rent 6 550.82 S, and in 1998 he has only more net, i.e. bar at hand, 5 670.13 p. That's almost 1,000 s less. This means by 20 percent less income for these minimum beneficiaries! Ladies and gentlemen! This group cannot wait to see if the tax reform is getting large or small, and for these people it is important that it comes and when it comes. You've been talking about the cold progression – that's a hot regression for rental interest rate beneficiaries! Ladies and gentlemen! That's very hot, because it's really not about a lot of money, but in the sum it's a lot for these people. I would therefore like to inform you of a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the savings packages, there was always a lot of talk about "reliability" and "target accuracy". – Mr Feurstein, if you agree to this request, you will be able to catch a group that has not really deserved it, according to this regulation, which is still in force.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12661	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled, is under negotiation and will be put to the vote. Mr Dietachmayr has referred to an actual correction. I would draw his attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12688	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger, as in many FPÖ publications, said that the Tax Reform Commission is planning a tenfold reduction in the basic tax. . I am correct in saying that this is a single opinion of a member of the tax reform commission of the – unfortunately, God's deceased – Mr. Haidinger, who proposed this as compensation if drinking tax and local tax were to be abolished. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not an actual correction!]] This was a single opinion, but not the opinion of the Tax Reform Commission.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12742	The next speaker is Mrs Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12763	Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this urgent question, I cannot see until the second that one of these 33 questions, which you, Dr. Prinzhorn, have asked, in any form, would be urgent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Diploma engineer!]] We are actually discussing the tax reform at every national Council meeting or almost every time the Minister of Finance is present. The fact that this is true proves that Mr Gaugg once again gave the speech of the previous day. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that you could actually have saved this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] You would have been able to obtain all the information you wish for in writing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You already have to leave that to us!]] Mr Böhacker! Before leaving the hall, I may contact you briefly, with regard to question 18 in your urgent concern regarding the suspension interest for the Austrian People's Party. You have stressed that in your 30-year-old career, you would not have had such a case. I ask you, Mr Böhacker: Were you not in your law firm for 30 years, or do you represent your clients so badly that you would never have requested a request for a fee or suspension in case of unjustified hardness? – I would like to point this out clearly. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Smolle]] [[Abg. Böhacker: They're all laid down! Unless they are wrong-doers.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Prinzhorn! The Secretary of State has already pointed out to you that your tax rate has been miscalculated. I know you are "Voodoo economist" in the Freedom Party, but I would have expected you to control the basic accounting methods. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not, of course, discuss the tax reform at the level of the urgent request of the liberals. I only remind the FPÖ of its key proposal, which is, of course, also: Lower taxes, create jobs. – They want to reduce the tax rate to 35 percent. We have already heard in the course of the debate by Professor Van der Bellen that this would cost about 210 billion schillings. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: We already have 35 percent?]] 210 billion Schilling, Mr. Prinzhorn, is about the sum we have for teachers, Gendarmerie, saying: Security that you want to increase needs. This is what we need for all officials, for doctors, nurses and judges. Do you want to abolish the case law? [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then we also have a little basket money for subsidies. Mr Principal! If we didn't have this basket, then in 1983 we could not have subsidized your business with 200 million schilling. [[Congratulations and calls at ÖVP and SPÖ:Oh!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! ==References====External links== July set up the arbitration court and your civil servant. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: This is incorrect, Mrs. Frieser! That's wrong!]] ==References== You will then also conclude the Treaty with the citizens of this Republic. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Are you really a tax advisor?]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, you will be the first collective indictment by the Liberal Group because you cannot live up to the promises you make to the citizens. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Do you have a professional honor or not? Put it right!]] I wish, Mr Prinzhorn, that this arbitrator or this civil servant will find that you are not allowed to ask a urgent question for a year. That's what I wish! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Of course, there will be a reform in 2000 and there will be a tax reform that will be balanced and we will be absolutely proud of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] But we will not only reduce the tax rate – I also wish that – but we will also have to implement a corresponding debureaucratisation shift. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e12961	There are two words on actual corrections. I ask both Members who have been reported to respect the Rules of Procedure and to begin with the facts you want to correct. I call on Mr Böhacker to make the first actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13013	Mrs Frieser said in your speech that I am not consulting my clients. – That is wrong, Mrs. Colleague! That's wrong. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As proof, I suggest that within 30 years I was able to expand the number of employees from one employee to 22 and thus create 22 jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, Mrs. professional colleague Frieser meant I'm never in my firm. I can calm you down: I'll be back in my firm tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13061	The next actual correction is made by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13086	Mrs Frieser claimed that in 1983 I had received 200 million Schillings of subsidies. [[Call the ÖVP:100!]] - I understood 200. But you don't care about the hundreds. In any case: I didn't get 1 million schilling or 1 s of subsidies. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Niklasdorf: Brigl and Mountain Master!]] No Schilling subsidies have been granted to Brigl and Bergmeister. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Was it Forint? Forint! Forint!]] I'll put it right: No skilling of subsidies has been received by Brigl and Bergmeister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13161	Mr Grossruck has now spoken. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Please, it is now only Mr Grossruck who has the floor. – Please start, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13192	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! My preliminary speaker first asked whether this urgent question also had the right to urgency in terms of content. Dear Cordula Friser! I too would like to ask and doubt this. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Malversations!]] But you know it, and we all know that there are different rules of play, and the FPÖ currently adheres to the rules of the game: Attack is the best defense. – Only if this strategy is to go up, at least the attacks should be strategically prepared, thought-out and properly planned. Your attacks, ladies and gentlemen, who have led you since your scandal, which has been revealed, are chaotic, transparent – with one word: Pipecreper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the animal world, one says to such a behavior: Afraid. Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! You've become a political fright! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You are currently suffering from Titanic syndrome. You know, the Titanic has come up to conquer the Blue Band to cross the Atlantic as fast as possible. As inconceivable she went, and on the first ride the Titanic went down. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They have declared themselves cleaners. I understand that it is particularly embarrassing when this image is suddenly over Night so destroyed and threaten to suffocate you in your own political garbage. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dr. Schwimmer has just given some excellent examples. He mentioned the tax paradise of Bärental, he made legal convictions that can be read, and one could continue the series of these examples. An example, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the behaviour: I would remind you that the Tyrolean FPÖ has been vehemently opposed to the sale of land to foreigners. Then I read in the "Kitzbühler Anzeiger" – which is also stated in a German newspaper –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] Acquisition of properties for German, Dutch and Italian citizens! Consulting by Kitzpichl Realities GesmbH. Phone: 053 56/56 66. Just call us! Ladies and gentlemen! If you try and call, you will experience a surprise. It will be the Kitzbühler mayor Horst Wendling – not a red one, not a black one, but a blue countryman who gives up these ads in German and Austrian newspapers, but then wagers against the "sale of the homeland". [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have been motivating about the bad economic situation in Austria. There are also positive examples. You might know her. For example, praise from Carinthia for Upper Austria: "... Leitl in Upper Austria, who, as a financial referent with the help of officials and "then, "the liberals" - probably he has not adopted the Council, that is also a help - "has succeeded in bringing together a budget miracle within two years. ... (FPÖ-LAbg. Dietlinde Kreutzer in the Kärntner Landtag)" I hope that it will have no effect on the basis of the reading of this statement. I am very sorry, and I would apologise from here if she had to resign. Ladies and gentlemen! One could continue the list of "clean men" for a very long time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then do it!]] One could set up miles of lists and talk for days about what happens in the individual communities – initiated by the remote-controlled "cleanmen" – and what orders to fulfill them. I'll save you. In any case, this will go through the press over time. But what your urgent question is, both these and the accusations against the ÖVP have been resolved in air. Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone uses a legal remedy – which every citizen in Austria can take, namely to appeal and seek support – but you are talking about a financial scandal, then you have to consider what spirit child is behind it if you make such accusations, just because someone is taking the appeal and the support. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] It is to be questioned whether these attacks, which have been launched, will be exactly such pipers – and they will be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you a well-known poster that has already taken place in Parliament. Mr Oellinger brought it in. [[The speaker holds a poster on which representatives Dr. Ofner and Rosenstingl are shown.]] If you see it this way – now I cover the picture of Mr. Ofner, so that you don't give a call for order again – then you think, that's a poster from an American police station that doesn't say: [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] "Two professionals as experienced serious candidates", but: "Wanted – dead or alive".
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13304	Mrs Bures. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13326	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take the opportunity to avoid that in the room and to take a position on the motion for a resolution on the Green Paper. It is true that for 14 years there has been no adjustment of the income limits to the rental rate aid and that there are therefore very many people who no longer have the opportunity to receive support for some of the housing costs, although these, as we know, have increased dramatically in recent years. Mr Oellinger! I would like to be prepared to enter into this discussion with you, and this also applies to the Socialist Group. I just think that your proposal is not very serious; it has also been demonstrated by the motions for resolutions today and yesterday, because you often make a motion for a resolution immediately before the end of the debate and never have a debate on it, either in committee or here in the House. In view of this, I do not believe that you are interested in the solution to the problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger! I can tell you, however, that you are invited – with the Socialist Group and, I hope, with all those who have a social attitude and know what it means for people with low incomes to stand up for housing expenses – to cooperate in a solution. I'd like to invite you to that. I would just like to say that I do not believe that it is very useful, as the last speaker of the Green Group, to put forward such a motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And that's why you vote against it!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13369	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the income ceiling for the reference to rental aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval of this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13409	We are now entering into a short debate. Mrs Dr Gabriela Moserhat requested that the Health Committee report on the application 736/A (E) concerning mobile communications facilities be limited to six months. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. We are now holding a brief debate on this request, after which the vote on the proposed time limit will take place. Before the beginning of the debate, I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. These 10 minutes are also intended as a directive for the opinions of members of the Federal Government or of state secretaries. As an applicant, I give Mrs Gabriela Moserd's floor to Mrs. Dr. Gabriela. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13445	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this debate is the fact that almost daily citizens' initiatives express their concerns, fears, concerns and protests about the establishment of GSM stations. These people, partially driven by fears – I just notice, just last Saturday or Friday, that was the case in Steyr – are trying to assert their rights when setting up a comprehensive network of broadcasts, which has many advantages, but also some disadvantages. You, Mr Minister, – I think it was Wednesday early – in the early morning hours of Wednesday you released the frequency range to 1,800 megahertz for another operator company. Not only Connect, also max.mobil. or the Telekom should be able to use additional frequencies here. They argued that the remaining frequencies should be used as widely as possible, that more competition should be gained, that investment should be made, that there should be game over effects, that jobs should be created and legal certainty guaranteed. – These were the words of Mr Parnigoni. Mr Kukacka said that the modernisation of telecommunications conditions had to move forward, that market-dominating monopolies should be broken, that competition should be forced – and that revenue should certainly be achieved. I'm sure that's the one side. The other side is the more than 80 citizens' initiatives that have already been formed throughout Austria, which are very skeptical and are partly afraid. I have no personal and political right to judge the health and health of these plants. This is not for me personally and politically. I don't have training for that, I can't say anything first-hand about it. It is, however, politically necessary to provide the appropriate basis for decision-making to provide and take into account the well-founded scientific basis for decision-making when it comes to expanding the number of GSM stations in Austria. There are currently 3 000 masts, with a total of 18,000 masts to be built in the coming years. There is a political decision behind it. I believe that this political decision must be taken responsibly and must be based on scientific principles, on scientific research results and based on them. This is where our request, which is neither pro nor counter, is put into effect, but which simply calls for certain precautions to be taken in the area of the comprehensive installation of mobile communications terminals. The deadline is therefore necessary because new masts are being built daily without the appropriate proper scientific basis on the table and becoming politically relevant. It is always argued that there is a study by the research centre Seibersdorf. Certainly, only in this case have technicians – I emphasize: Technicians – from Seibersdorf, from TU Vienna and from TU Graz took their decision on the health relevance of GSM transmitters. Technicians judged health. And then the Austrian politicians, who refer to this study again and again. You can only read this in the answers to your questions. There is also the other side. There are the side of the scientists who are there called Dr. Mosgöller, University Professor Kundi, there are scientists who work in the Landesanheitsdirektion Salzburg, there are scientists in Australia, in Russia, there are also scientists in the WHO who have concerns that up to now the scientific bases are not comprehensive enough to say that the whole thing is safe. I would just like to point out that just a very mobile-friendly scientist, Mr Michael Repacholi from Australia, was making an attempt to expose mice to a frequency that was in the mobile phone area, namely a pulsed frequency of 217 Hertz. A group of mice was exposed to this frequency, not another one, always in half-hour distance. It turned out – please, this is the result of research by a scientist who worked for the mobile industry! – that those mice exposed to these frequencies developed a double higher tumour susceptibility. This has been the result of an Australian study, whose publication has been suppressed for a long time, but now also owned by WHO. And the WHO again and again emphasizes the need for clarity to be created and researched. In this direction, our proposal is aimed at. That is why I call for a deadline to be set by the beginning of July, until the next plenary session of the National Council. Research must also be started in Austria. We must not rely solely on international studies. Above all, we must also provide budget resources, revenue from the sale of frequencies, of licences, so that we as politicians have the appropriate decision-making basis. I would like to draw attention to a meeting organised by the ÖGNU, in which various scientists also spoke and expressed their concerns, such as Dr Mosgöller, whom I have already quoted. He repeatedly points out that there are a number of studies that establish a link between modulated high-frequency EMF radiations and frequencies and brain activity. There's a connection. It must be further researched. – This is his conclusion. I would also like to pay tribute to Professor of University Dr. Michael Kundi, who found: The WHO also believes that the development of EMF technologies should go hand in hand with appropriate and coordinated research of its potential health effects. That also demands the WHO, and nothing else demands our request. It is necessary to carry out accompanying research, and it is necessary to make available the funds. Not only these two university professors demand this, there are also lawyers who join their demands. I just want Mr Dipl.-Ing. Alfred Brezansky of the Vienna Environmental Procuratorate, who also points to the study of Repacholi and believes that there is no solid evidence to date that the radiation electromagnetic fields actually represent a health risk. But there is no reason to be warned either. The scientific studies are simply not far enough advanced to answer the question of health damage. To eliminate the research deficit, to meet research needs, to call for effective research resources – nothing else requires our request, which has already been submitted in May and is now finally to be dealt with in the Health Committee. Please, take it. You know these suggestions and demands – warning signals in particular – from a scientific point of view! Create the opportunity for clarity so that the initiatives do not have unnecessary fears – or legitimate fears, it must be researched first! Make sure that the citizens concerned have better guidance, especially in the GSM sector! Open the gate, also open the wallet for better research in the sense of the follow-up effects or accompanying circumstances that result from radiation from GSM transmitters!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13523	Mr Parnigoni. Mr President, you and all the following speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13545	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the request of the Greens, the situation is presented as if there were no rules on health protection in these forms of communication. - It's not like that. The GSM technology must, of course, comply with applicable national and international health standards and limit values specified by the World Health Organisation and their compliance is reviewed and controlled by the Telecommunications Organisation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear that this is a very growing, dynamic area. There are currently 227 mobile networks worldwide in 110 countries. We know exactly that the last satellite for the new satellite communications system has been shot into space and we can expect that there will be about 3 million cell phone owners in Austria in 2000. Then probably every green person has a cell phone. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: But no mice!]] We must therefore deal with this issue. It is remarkable to me that the effects appear to be different, because in a statement from the State Offices Conference of 24 April, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Ministers of the Member States of the European Union, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Council of Ministers of the European Union of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Union, of the United Nations, of the United Nations and of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations, of the United Nations and of the United Nations, of America, of the United Nations, of America, of the United Nations, of America and of America, of America, of America, of America, and of America, of the United Nations, of America, of America, and of America, of the United Nations. In April, it is reported that Salzburg – because you, Mrs Moser, have been addressing It would therefore be interesting to learn what really corresponds to the facts. However, I would like to say to the Social Democrats that this issue of course concerns us that we also recognise the problem of a better perception of neighbourhood protection in the investment process and, in general, the GSM transmitters. We also want to achieve a rapid solution to the problem, but it should be very pragmatic. I don't mean that we're up to 6. July – and that would, I believe, be necessary, according to your request, to create a change to the Telecommunication Act. We will therefore reject this request for a deadline. Mrs Moser! But I say to you that we believe that a telecommunications law novelle must in all cases include better protection of neighborhoods in the investment process for citizens. We must pay attention to the protection of the landscape and the area, and above all we want a coordination of the transmission system construction. It is a question of making rules that force companies to create a site sharing, i.e. to use existing installations, if there is a corresponding free capacity, as is already the case in the fixed network sector today. We want, above all, to ensure ongoing control of radiation pollution, and that is why the Ministry of Science and Transport is currently preparing an appropriate novel, and Mrs Prammer is also working on developing appropriate considerations for this law in her field of competence. I should like to inform you, as chairman of the Committee on Transport, that the Forum on Mobile Communications has approached me with the request for a debate with Members within the framework of the Committee on Transport. I also believe that the representatives of the network operators are willing to work together on a solution here, because of course they also have a great interest in accepting this technology in the population. I shall make a personal effort to bring about a corresponding change in the telecommunications law, and I hope that after the summer a suitable basis will be available and we will work together in autumn, that is, this year, to solve this problem in a meaningful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13582	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13604	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say, from a medical point of view, that: You have already submitted this request in December last year, only in a different form, and you have already warned about it and said that there are publications that clearly prove that electromagnetic waves have biological effects et cetera. Then you said the same thing as today: The long-term studies are completely lacking, and therefore, as long as safety cannot be demonstrated in a serious way, it is not responsible to put such facilities into operation before schools, kindergartens, old-age homes and hospitals. In today's request, you're a little more careful. They no longer say "intellectual" but speak of few scientific data which justify the assumption that there can be undesirable effects that are more likely; and as long as this has not been finally clarified, political action was required. I have made the effort and have selected the biggest studies worldwide. There are two studies, one from Finland and one from the USA. As part of the Finnish study, 383,000 people have been observed for 20 years – because you say there were no long-term studies; this is a literal quote from you. So much for the "preciousness" of your inquiry. Thus, in this study: It could not be confirmed the previously claimed relationship of extremely low magnetic fields with tumours of the nervous system, lymphoma and leukemia. – A 20-year study with 383,000 people is no proof for you. On the contrary: Today, they have risen to the point that suddenly the poor mice should get tumors in cell phone calls. How does that work? – I have once read that even the fear of the citizens is generated that when they make phone calls with the mobile phone, the tumors grow out of the ears. Then I must personally be very ill and many others in this house too. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who knows!]] First of all, you are understated to say that you are not actually allowed to judge it, but the fears and concerns are serious, and you have to act responsibly here, but right now you say: Yes, but science has no final results yet. I would like to tell you about another study, published by Harvard University, in the "New England Journal of Medicine", the most famous medical journal in the world. This study was about the link between leukemia in children and magnetic fields, i.e. a completely different field. The result was: No connection could be established. The expert writes in the editorial: For 18 years we are teasing, constantly a connection is claimed, nothing could be proved. There were dozens of studies on lymphomas, brain cancer, miscarriage, breast cancer, psychological, immunological abnormalities – nothing could be found. Dozens of commissions have been dealing with this over and over again. I believe – he concludes – that 18 years of science have provided enough evidence that there is no impact, and it is time to end this waste of scientific money. 18 years aren't enough for you? I think we should take fear of the citizens in Austria, rather than fear, and it would be good if you took such scientific literature at hand, because then probably not such requests would be made, which unfortunately are really superficial, but probably even the surface was intended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13641	Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13663	High house! Mr President. Right ahead: We liberals agree with this required deadline, not only because we have made a request ourselves, but because we believe that this is a subject that concerns the people for a variety of reasons, and it is certainly necessary to discuss it because of the forest of the send mast, which is now in the process of landscape negotiation. The health question cannot be answered by me seriously. Of course, the researchers are supposed to have the floor. But this problem, Mr Rasinger, with studies from the speaker's desk, is, I believe, not the way the population wants, but it wants a serious discussion, and this serious discussion should serve this deadline. I believe that we should do this together: not to view the refusal of discussion as the top objective, but to act offensively on behalf of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have similar motives in our request. We are of course committed to modern telecommunications, which is necessary for the economic location, et cetera. These things are on the table. But now to Mr Parnigoni's remarks. Mr Parnigoni said that in Salzburg this was not a problem that would not be discussed in the population. I have to ask who he is talking to. Mr Parnigoni, there has been a discussion about this in the Salzburg Landtag, paper dated 23. In April 1998, in which all parties have become aware of a common path in a request, following a request from the citizens' list. All have approached the covenant and have invited him to address the issue, as it is federal matter, of a solution. The Chairman of the Mayor's Conference, Mr Mödlhammer, of the ÖVP, says: With regard to wild growth, he felt that three operators were establishing different transmission systems. The existing mast systems should be used to accommodate the required transmission masts. Then the whole thing will be focused in an ÖVP amendment, similar to what has been said on our part and by the Greens today. On the third point of this request, it states: It is intended to achieve the use of existing mast systems and thus to avoid the re-establishment of transmission masts. Member of the Neureiter van der ÖVP demands similar things. Now I come to the SPÖ: Clubo's wife, Mag. Burgstaller, Member of Parliament for the Salzburg Landtag, says: The SPÖ therefore proposes to introduce an advertising obligation, and, by means of a SPÖ amendment application submitted to the Federal legislator, that is, to you, to us, with the request, in the Telecommunications Act for operators of GSM transmitters, undertakes to anchor the obligation to also make the transmission systems available to other GSM network operators on a fee basis as part of the technical possibilities. Now Mr Parnigoni says that there is no discussion in Salzburg. Did you tell yourself about your club wife Burgstaller in the Salzburger Landtag? – But it goes on, ladies and gentlemen. Second President Mag. Thaler, Social Democratic, says: A corresponding arrangement had to be made by the federal government. – Who is this, Mr Parnigoni? You're not one of those responsibilities? The appeal of your own party friends today, by voting against this order, against this federalist mission, is against this request, ladies and gentlemen! Then there is an extended ÖVP amendment. You will not agree to this today in the usual form; in the fall of a lie, is called the foreign exchange. You think you can distract other things from the failure of your policy. Ladies and gentlemen! These applications are very positive, and these individual party applications can then be found in a joint request from the Salzburg Landtag – all four groups represented in the Landtag – with which they approach the Federal legislator. – Mr Parnigoni is not interested. There's no such thing as that, the whole thing is turned under the carpet. There is no excitement among the citizens in the city and in the country of Salzburg. That's going to be discussed. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I didn't say that!]] – You just said that: In Salzburg there is no such problem, there is everything paletteti! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because you don't listen! This is a distortion of the facts!]] There is a clear demonstration of the will of the Salzburg Landtag, of all parties, with the request to us, to the Parliament, to name and to focus on things by name, and what is the answer? – A Njet, refusal of discussion! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Sometime in the autumn, the scientists will come, and then the matter will be done sometime, because there is no compelling need to act here. Ladies and gentlemen! You should tackle these things, and I therefore tell you that with your approach in the area of GSM transmitters, your credibility is once again being tested.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13726	Mrs Gredler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13747	Mr President. I would also like to be intelligible. First, electromagnetic fields were first described in 1831. Since 1946, there has been the first private mobile service in the USA. That is, since 1946 there have been the first transmission masts in the U.S. – and since then there have been research on it. I myself have had the pleasure of reading the results of research in the field of radiation in all scientific journals and magazines available to me as a doctor. And I have to tell you: If really die of mobile mice, I'll buy my mother a cell phone right away so she doesn't have any more mice in the house. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So that would be just too ideal! I suppose if there is a mouse level in the green club, then everyone will be equipped with mobile phones so that they can be the master of this plague there. So I mean, this is not the serious basis we should actually discuss here and today, but you should make an effort, through the Internet, through libraries – and scientific libraries that have been made accessible via the Internet, such as a particular one in the USA – to retrieve studies yourself, so that it becomes clear to you that this is actually an exaggerated fear that you are instigating with such motions for resolutions, rather than being inconspicuous. I would like you to know that, in order to receive an impeccable TV picture, at least ten thousand times the reception service is necessary – the ten thousand times! There each one of us should die in the news in front of the television, not because of the content, but only because of the radiation he has been exposed! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] I really believe that in Parliament we are not joining these fears, but rather – quite the contrary! – should be soothing. They are quite right that this channel mast forest, which is now emerging, is absolutely frightening, not because of the radiation, but because it really represents an optical loss for the eye when such "posts" are everywhere. I mean, you should make these transmitters visually more appealing and perhaps motivate some designers to do something. That would be more reasonable. But the masts themselves are far less dangerous than the transmission systems Bisamberg or Gaisberg, where of course people also live. I do not think that they have more tumors because they live near these stations, or that there are no more mice there at all. That would be a reason for my mother to move there. We should really join the view of the World Health Organization. You mentioned the critics, I call the advocates. These have been found in a body called International Commission on Non-Ionization Radiation Protection. Sounds crazyly professional, was installed by WHO. In April 1998, an evaluation was made and published by this body, which clearly states that there is no risk of health while complying with the current limit values. – In Austria, the limit values recommended by the WHO apply. If you also study the positions of American organizations such as the Institute of Electric and Electronic Engineering or the American Conference on Governmental and Industrial Hygieneists or the German Radiation Protection Commission – if you do not already trust the Austrian Federal Chancellery – then I would think you would have the right information basis. One more thing: If you want to set research priorities, you will see a treatment in the Scientific Committee and not in the Health Committee, because in this proposal you are mainly calling for an approach to research. Firstly, we have really had sufficient research in this field worldwide, and it will be further researched; and secondly, I do not think that this matter has anything to look for in the Committee on Health, but very probably something in the Committee on Science.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13810	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13831	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to the speeches that have been given – especially those concerning the medical side. It has been said to us here that there is no question at all that we should not be afraid that it is not bad at all, that everything is going on within the framework of the normal, and that there is a health risk, that we should not think of it at all. But then I wonder – and I am specifically asking the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – why the insurance industry cannot imagine offering insurance against physical damage due to electromagnetic fields. The insurance industry says that it cannot insure against this risk, because that could infall the entire insurance industry into indebtedness. - So that's what I'm saying. The insurance industry – I think that is not unknown – rather guarantees against risk cases where the probability is very low, because risks that are very high do not guarantee an insurance company anyway because an insurance company wants to make profits and is not a social office. I think we should take this attitude of the insurance companies seriously. There's a lot of health damage! For example, people who have a heart pacemaker suffer terribly; they have problems with their heart pacemaker. I too have massive problems with hearing aid. You may find it funny, but if somewhere near me a mobile phone is ringing or I am close to a mast, then not only does my hearing aid start to blow out quite immensely, but I have even found that the battery lasts twice as long as normal, because it is recharged by itself in this electromagnetic field – and the whole thing is directly on my body! That this is healthy and does not pose health risks, you have to explain to me first. If you claim that everything has been regulated anyway and the population needs no fear, I wonder why you do not finally carry out appropriate research, publish the research results in Austria, and make available the relevant publications to those who are afraid of electromagnetic fields. I think it should be a major concern, especially for the operators of transmission masts, to reach a corresponding awareness of the population. It should therefore endeavour to make available funds from the licence receipts and through the operating companies in order to inform and install an appropriate precautionary medicine. But all of this is not available. And why is it not present? – Because there is very probably a risk and because the fears associated with it are justified! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! If you feel that there is no damage, then you offer the population an insurance at the federal level, through which every individual who is damaged or suffers health damage can obtain a benefit from the insurance stopper. If you offer such an insurance, you could gain some credibility, since you are so sure that there is no damage anyway. But as long as you are not willing to operate the appropriate preventive medicine on the one hand and on the other hand to create an insurance at the federal level for those affected by these electromagnetic fields, you have absolutely no chance of increasing your credibility in this regard. On the contrary: You are thus instigating the fears because you are refusing exactly these two important measures! Ladies and gentlemen! It is up to you whether you want to reduce the legitimate fears of the population or whether you want to strengthen them. The fears are therefore justified because there is no preventive medicine in Austria to ensure that health damage is avoided and because you are not prepared to carry out such public health work, which actually represents the medical point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13882	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We now have to vote on the deadline request. Please take the seats! I wait with the vote until Mrs Haidlmayr is in her place. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Exceptionally, you may stay there and vote from here. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall vote on the request for the Health Committee to report on the 736/A (E) proposal for precautionary measures in the field of universal installations of mobile communications terminals for a period of up to 6 years. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13934	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 6 to 11 of the agenda. We continue in the speaker list. Mr Dr Höchtl spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e13961	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We'll be back to the financial package. I would just like to deal with two points of this comprehensive financial package. First of all, I refer to a law that we have repeatedly innovationized, but today there is a very special novel on the agenda. Colleagues of SPÖ and ÖVP have submitted an application for revision of the gambling law. This amendment to the gambling law states that a comprehensive sport promotion should be carried out by means of revenue thus secured by law in so far as the Lotto-Toto-Society achieves the corresponding revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This sport promotion has a long historical background. Before the Lotto Society was founded and discussed the re-establishment of various forms – including "6 from 45" and so on – a specific massive promotion of sport has been given since 1949. And through the Federal Sport Organisation, whose President we have in the Members' Series, a distribution has been carried out in accordance with the best possible fairness. I have compiled, on the basis of the documentation – on the part of the Lotto-Toto-Society – what quantitative dimensions this comprehensive sport promotion has achieved over the years. Before the special sports promotion was introduced, between 1949 and 1985 3 219 million schilling were added to the sport. Since we introduced special sports promotion with a corresponding basic amount in 1985, the annual funds have grown systematically from originally 312 300 000 S to 400 million schilling last year. In total, this means that about 4 319 300 000 S of the Lotto-Toto funds have flown to the sport. If I add the two sums, namely, from 1949 to 1985, on the one hand, and from 1986 to 1997, on the other, it is 7.5 billion schilling. This is a proud amount that has been fed to the sport! We are now creating a special exception with this novel for two years by binding the amounts to the sales revenues of the Lotto-Toto-Gesellschaft. You can already say: If we put 1998 on the basis of the proceeds from 1997, we will reach a maximum of 420 million schilling in 1998. If the development of the Lotto-Toto-Society continues as in the first months of the year, then a maximum of 440 million schilling will be reached in 1999. This means that what is provided in the law will be made available to the highest extent for sport. I believe that all those who place a high priority on sports in Austria can agree with this innovation out of conviction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the following points: Two major companies located in my district are affected by the transfer of the shares of AUA and Gesmbh Airport to ÖIAG. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has not yet been mentioned: In total, the federal government is currently involved in AUA with 51.94 percent and at the airport with 17.38 percent. We have already stressed in the debate that the ÖIAG has demonstrated great know-how in recent years as to privatisation issues. In this case, the shares rights shall be transferred in order to allow the ÖIAG to exercise the corresponding capital and economic exercise of the equity rights for the Confederation. We will agree to the transfer of the shares rights of these significant undertakings, because we believe that this is a real step, and we hope that these shares will also be managed with great success in the best practice of the ÖIAG.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14024	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14046	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would have liked to refer to the problem of the introduction of retroactive laws – a very important point for the economy – or the plan of the Minister of Finance, which, according to press release, wants to make the laws more waterproof to the Constitutional Court – I think this would represent a strong under-migration of the rule of law – or also the problem of the planned increase in the basic tax, as it is colported. But there will certainly be enough opportunity to do so in the next few months. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to deal with the amendment of the guarantee law and then with the sale of shares rights of the export funds company to the OeKB. The amendment of the guarantee law has imposed 2 billion schilling on small and medium-sized enterprises in the country and is now intended to extend the liability framework of the financing guarantee company accordingly. This is, in principle, a very positive assessment for the domestic economy; however, it is worrying that the liability obligations of 10 billion schilling can be assumed by the decision of the Federal Minister alone. I believe that this is a problem that may still concern us. Where should the money come from in the event of the use of liability? Who should pay for the cost of the facility and cover it? – These questions have remained unanswered in this report. Mr State Secretary! Maybe you're ready to answer that. The statement that the system is self-sustaining is probably not to be taken seriously, because the liability fees to be paid cannot be so high. Otherwise, the provision of risk capital would be contrary to favourable loans. Since the FGG also provides risk capital for direct investment abroad, the self-sustaining concept of the system is rather unbelievable, as well as shows past examples. For, ladies and gentlemen, if, as the report points out, the damages are completely covered from the reserve made by the FGG, then such deposits will be exhausted in a very short time, and then it will not be self-sustaining. If you have to use reserves for these liabilities, then it is not a self-sustaining system. However, since the amendment of the guarantee law is, as a whole, for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and is very sure to support their export activity, we will support and agree to this request, as well as in the Committee. With regard to the sale of shares of the Austrian export funds company to the OeKB, I would like to point out that this is a task, namely export financing and export guarantee allocation, to the financing guarantee company and to the OeKB. This seems to me to be inappropriate, as it makes the support system even more incomprehensible, because it divides it. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Finally, you have to decide on the concentration of decision-making tasks on a point when the debureaucratisation you have announced is only meant if you want to make the funding system really easier and more transparent, as you always require from the government bank. Furthermore, an extension of the OeKB's tasks is to be rejected, as no precise control of OeKB's activity is already possible. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! It would have been time for the long-promising structural changes to take place in such a law. But you have not implemented your promise, but have actually brought about a new complication in this area. Another point that causes us not to approve of this report: You are asked by decision to identify, calculate and disclose the costs, including minor costs, ladies and gentlemen. This has not happened in this case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14110	Mr Heindl is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed the location situation of Austria's export industry one and a half hours ago, and one or two points are in it immediately. Yesterday we adopted a novel on the Export Funding Act, which is a complicated title. [[Call to the Freeman:Export Funding Act!]] - Okay, thank you. – This was certainly a very important contribution to securing the export location in Austria. I don't quite understand your criticism – but perhaps I didn't come along – which is the guarantee part. The whole system is becoming more closed and round, and this includes, above all, the transfer of the share rights to the export funds. I simply think it is right that there is a concentration, and the change in the share situation is important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as has been shown in the past, are an essential factor in the development of exports to our neighbouring countries. I've got the statistics about in my head. About 80 percent – this is what the investigation says – of our total exports go to the EU plus East, 17, 18 percent to the CIS countries. This positive development in recent years has contributed particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, with participation in joint ventures, in business start-ups, in branches. From different funds or positions, well over 1 billion schillings have flown. Why do I do that? – Mr Commissioner, I have not criticized you. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: But we agree! I also said very clearly that this is positive!]] I just didn't quite understand you. Because it was criticised – I think colleague Peter – why the chamber was 50 percent? Now, of course, we can say, as Mr Peter said, they can also act as an expert. But I don't know if that would make sense. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: I criticized the division from one to two areas!]] Mr Nußbaumer! What I mean is that it makes sense. We know that the Chamber also supports small and medium-sized enterprises in export. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. These are already in the export promotion!]] If we want to avoid multiple promotions, and if the whole system is a self-contained system to improve the entire export regime, then all this really makes sense. We may come back in two or three years, that it can be improved in this or that direction. On the subject of guarantee, I would like to say the following: I am deeply convinced that export guarantees are essential for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: That's exactly what I said!]] Let us be glad that we agree! – The export guarantees are very important for business start-up. The risk for a small business that cannot have constantly employed three people abroad is huge, getting to know a new market is extremely complex. Once he's there and when things run after three, four, or five years, the business also continues by itself. But as far as the initial phase is concerned, I am convinced that many of the positive exports developed over the last five to ten years, especially in the last five years, would not have been possible without export guarantees. If we want – I think we all want to do so, because it is ultimately in the employment field – that our export share of 28.5 percent continues to rise – the objective is that in the next few years we will be more than 30 percent, perhaps even 32 percent – then what we have decided yesterday and will decide today is an essential prerequisite for creating the basis for the entrepreneurs to continue the successful path they have taken in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14240	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14262	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution to the debate refers primarily to the novel to the gambling law, specifically to the repair of § 20 concerning federal sport promotion. Mr Höchtl has already made a number of comments. In addition to his remarks, the difference between what can be expected optimistically and what one considers rather skeptical as an opposition politician – in this case it is a difference of 120 million schilling, as I am going to say at the same time – is that this different view has to be explained. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: Explain!]] A brief look back – as Mr Höchtl has made him – is necessary. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1920s, Austria was an example in the sports organization, in the promotion of sports, as well as in sports pedagogy. The Glöckelsche Schulerlass has gone around the world. Austria was visible on this point. I am saving myself the development in the "Third Reich" in connection with sports policy. It could cost me head and collar. In fact, this most corrupting of all the socialist regimes operated a rather aggressive sports policy, which later found a follow-up only in the countries of the GDR and Cuba. Ladies and gentlemen! After the war, on the one hand, there were other concerns in this country, on the other hand, one fell deliberately into opposition to this crime regime and put the sport in the final line. In fact, the negative rays of the then countersport movement are still noticeable. As the worries became smaller and the movement and play was increased, it was called after money. According to the model of England, the Toto game was introduced in 1949 – as we have learned – and because the football was the bread for the immediately monopolisted Toto, the sport was given a crum. In 1949 it was 10 000 S, President Lösnak, as you probably know from history. Toto playing was an honor for every sports-interested person at the time, but sporttoto was at the same time sports promotion. In order to put this direct subsidy from Toto to Sport on a political but also party-political mascherl, a gambling law was created, the lotto-toto was taken up by the Minister of Finance and passed on a valorized funding every year. This distribution was kept and kept primarily in red and black hands. Then came the savings packages. The years 1996 and 1997 were excluded from this valorization – in my opinion against the law – but Vranitzky promised to reintroduce this valorization in 1998. His successor, the "Gala Sports Minister", as I once called him, is unable to reintroduce this valorization, and that is why we have now made a law novel to damage. – the amendment to the explanation of this issue. Sport will try to sell this novel as progress and problem-solving. Mr Höchtl has just referred to the new regulation in enthusiastically. But I say: To leave a federal sport promotion after 45 years on the foundation of gambling solutions is a poverty certificate. This shows which "valuability" is actually assigned to the public health factor number one in Austria. In my opinion, Wittmann & Co from the Minister of Finance have been able to pull over the table at this novel. A share of 3 percent of sales revenues has just been highly praised here. Mr Höchtl has calculated that 7 billion Schillings have been in the sport since 1949. It would be interesting where the remaining 97 percent, about 200 billion schilling, remained. Only the Minister of Finance knows that. Today, an innovation will be decided that 3 percent of revenue will be foreseen for the next two years. This is 380 to 420 million schilling in 1998 and 360 to 440 million in 1999. Mr Höchtl – I suggested it – goes from the two higher, optimistic figures. I allow myself to ask: Why has the negotiator inserted the figures 380 million and 360 million as lower limits here? – Even that was what sport, as I have learned, had to "eat out" through negotiations. I do not think this optimism is justified by anything – in any case, by the fact that you, ladies and gentlemen, will eagerly motivate you to play "6 out of 45", Toto and the like in order to keep the proceeds as high as possible. Play You're as bad as you are! We need a lot of jackpots to reach these sizes. The promotion of sport is largely left to the random principle, the principle of happiness and gambling. Mr Grabner! Mr Lösnak! Allow you to see this topic from this point of view, because it... [[Abg. Grabner: I will inform you!]] You'll tell me then. – In any case, the present draft law contains the two amounts mentioned by me as limits. You will then tell me why these limits are needed. In any case, we are of a different opinion and therefore allow ourselves to present, from our point of view, an amendment to Mr Grabner's motion for a resolution 710/A, Mr Grabner's head, Mr Löschnak, Mr Höchtl, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that is justifiable, because that is the starting position of 1995. That is to say, any other solution is a break, and the 3 percent are simply not clear, as the law rightly provides. I consider this 400 million schilling to be quite a realistic limit and to be the minimum of what Austrian sport – also in the sense of the gambling law and sports promotion – deserved. I would ask you, if you have failed to do so in the course of the negotiations, Mr Grabner and other Members who are open to sports, to agree to this amendment in order to receive at least 400 million schilling as a lower limit. Furthermore, the statement that sports promotion cannot continue to be solid on the basis of the gambling law in the future. Sports promotions must be put on other legs, but new distribution keys must also be created. You know what I think about this: ASKÖ and the Union – they are sitting at the levers of this distribution – do not, in our view, have the mandate to distribute public funds. If it is necessary for a umbrella association to be set up between the trade unions, then it should be one in the future. If UNION and ASKÖ have the courage and their respective 1 million members can indeed motivate them to carry out their work within the framework of self-employed associations without having access to public funding, they will have my fullest recognition, support and respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14342	The amendment tabled by Mr Grollitsch is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14367	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been pointed out, we are now dealing with six agenda items under one. I would just like to focus briefly on two of these six points, first of all on the transfer of federal holdings to the property of the ÖIAG. My previous speakers asked the question: What will be the task of the ÖIAG in the future? – Mr Stumpfully explained to the House that the ÖIAG was a privatisation pro. I take a press release from today that ÖIAG has bought back shares of VOEST-ALPINE railway systems. I can remind you that VOEST-ALPINE has been privatized. But now the ÖIAG buys back shares and in turn is owned by more than 50 percent. – Mr State Secretary! Maybe you could give us a little hint of how this action can be understood. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] I would also like to take a brief look at the request of Mr Van der Bellen regarding the reform of the Austrian Control Bank. We have discussed this in a very detailed way in my group. In principle, while we also believe that certain reforms should take place in the control bank, there have already been intentions and efforts to privatise further shares. However, no buyer has been found for these shares. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to return to a kind of favorite subject of mine, not least because Mr Petrovic reminded me of this at the Federal-Senioren Act item on the agenda. It has criticized the legibility of this law, and rightly so, as I believe. As a result, I have reviewed the government proposals that are now under consideration with regard to statements on the costs contained in them. It is in the two government templates: not a substantial cost. Mr State Secretary! Since the Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of § 24 of the Federal Budget Act, I assume that this information is correct. However, I would like to point out another phenomenon in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! We decided a law yesterday for say and write 39 people in this country – you hear: a law for 39 people affected! – The cardiotechnical law. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Why didn't you report before?]] I think that only the calculation of the cost of this law has used more money or, in order to choose the right term, more resources than the cardiologists earn in one year. Mr State Secretary! I believe that you should work to ensure that the requirements laid down in § 23 BHG are fulfilled – but only if it is useful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14410	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Madam President, you have a speaking time of 9 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14432	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree with the request concerning a federal law that amends the gambling law, but regrettably there is still no regulation in the context of the sport of disabled persons which would in fact ensure the exercise of the sport of disabled persons financially. This does not ensure the possibility of making the sport of disabled people more attractive and providing more lobbyism for disabled people. Mr Grabner, however, has earlier indicated to me that we are going to talk about improving the sport of disabled people in line with the concerns of those concerned. I hope that this promise will be fulfilled. I would like you, ladies and gentlemen, to do all you can to finally give the disabled sport the importance that he deserves and which he should have had long ago. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that in Austria the national championships of athletics in disability sports are currently taking place. I would like to ask you to attend these national championships in your own federal states and look at the achievements of disabled people in sport. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also ask you not only to support the sport of disabled persons with your presence, but also to contribute to the fact that there is at last a legal regime that truly meets the requirements for the exercise of the sport of disabled persons. You can also prove this, because our athletes will be driving to Birmingham soon. The funding is far from guaranteed. You could make your contribution to ensuring your stay in Birmingham, and I hope you will do the same. I'm just relying on you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14478	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14499	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I will, of course, also deal with the novel on gambling law. A newspaper wrote yesterday: The special sport promotion of the federal government has been increased. The reason for this is a change to the gambling law. As a result, the funds increased from 400 to 420 million schilling. Given the current development in the lotteries, the sales of which are linked to this sport promotion, it is even calculated with 440 million schilling in 1999. So it seems to have been a good luck to make this link, rather than the previous increase that was bound to the index. Ladies and gentlemen! I can say thank you very much on behalf of the sport. For that 420 million schillings are safe for this year – we will not agree to the motion for a resolution because it is not necessary – I would like to thank the President of the BSO, our friend Löschnak, in particular! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was he who fought tirelessly for it. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State Dr Wittmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Ruttenstorfer is now the State Secretary!]] Mr Grollisch! I was at the first game of the World Cup and I had contact with representatives of many countries: All over Europe, sports get the money from the lotteries. One of the best laws in this context is the Austrian law. That is why I must assume that you have not looked at this very carefully. I'll tell you the reason for that. This new law says that for this year at least 380 million, but actually 420 million schilling, are available – due to the turnover of the lotteries in 1997. It's already fixed, it was 16.4 billion schilling. That is to say, the 420 million schilling we decide today is safe for Austrian sport. That's an important part. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The development of January by May of this year has shown that sport will also receive the said 440 million schilling for the next year. This means that this is much better than the valorization that has existed so far. It's true: This law was, when it was passed in 1986, one of the best – despite valorization! However, it was suspended for two years due to the savings package. Today, therefore, if the BSO and its President had not been so active, we would not have received this amount, but it would have remained at 400 million schilling. That is why I would like to thank all those who have contributed. We have heard a lot about the development of sports today. I can say that since 1949 7.6 billion schillings have been made available for sport, of which 2.6 billion shillings for Austrian football alone – at first the money from the Toto wins actually belonged to football. For sport, there is always too little money – I say so at the same time – so in my opinion the drops of advertising remain that this regulation only applies for two years. Another wormhead drop is that a cover has been drawn up at 440 million schilling. Again: I also thank you very much on behalf of the ASKÖ! Sport in Austria is more than satisfied with this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14553	The next speaker is thank you, Mr Löschnak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14574	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to take a short look. For Austrian sport – and for this I speak as chairman of the Bundessportsorganisation – this novelle is a good thing for gambling law because it secures the basic funds for all Austrian sport for two years, better than if the valorization we had in the law had continued to take place until 1995. This can be calculated relatively easily, Mr Grollitsch: With an amount of 400 million schillings, which was enshrined in the law, you will not, even if you calculate the valorization from 1996 to 1997 or 1998, come up to the 10 percent increase we will surely reach next year. Mr Grabner has already explained the development of the pure proceeds of the Austrian lotteries. We could and will continue to be able to calm the doubt that exists in our own ranks, in the trade unions and attic associations, because for this year the amount of 420 million schilling is certain. As it looks, 440 million schilling are likely to be expected next year with certainty. - That's one. Secondly, With this novel, we were able to partly calm the fears of the financial sector by taking a cover so that the increase in the 400 million schillings could not go to a multiple of what sports would naturally have liked, but which was, however, necessary due to the general budget situation, but was not enforceable. There too we were able to calm the doubters. I am not concerned about what it was that led to this novel, but about how we can deal with it in order to achieve a basic guarantee for Austrian sport from the year 2000. This is at least as important as this novelle itself. I assume that the willingness shown by both the Federal Chancellor in his capacity as Minister of Sports and the Minister of Finance – who must ultimately provide the funds – to the Secretary of State for Finance and the Secretary of State for Sports will continue and that we will therefore be able to put this two-year provisional solution, as we feel it, into a definitive and therefore longer-term solution from the year 2000. The talks so far make this optimistic attitude seem justified. It is not only in the explanatory remarks that the negotiations are to be started this autumn, but we also have the undertaking of the Federal Chancellor that, immediately after the end of the EU Presidency of Austria, the Sports Ministers – in the person of the Federal Chancellor – will enter into negotiations with the Federal Sports Organisation, the trade unions and umbrella associations. Ladies and gentlemen! I am hopeful that what we have begun well will at least be able to continue well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14621	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's speech was not sought. I would ask you to take the seats because we now have several votes to vote on. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1185 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1165 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This approval is unanimous. The draft was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the third reading to give a signal. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1244 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This draft was also unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1247 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign of approval. – That's the majority. This report is largely taken note of. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1249 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees with this draft in third reading? – The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Finally, we shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1245 of the supplements. Mr Grollitsch and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. We shall proceed in such a way that we shall first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been agreed. The amendment tabled by Dr Grollitsch and Comrades concerns Z 1 § 20 para. 4. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a large majority in the Committee's report. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. The draft was adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (665 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of inheritance and gift taxes (1246 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14774	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I have a speech on behalf of Mr Karl Gerfried Müller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14807	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is an agreement between Austria and the Czech Republic to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth tax, which was concluded in 1978 with the Czechoslovak Republic at that time and which, of course, continues to apply. On the other hand, there are no tax-contract rules on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of inheritance and gift tax. The present agreement between the two countries is in line with the modern international tax contract rules. In order to avoid double taxation, both Contracting States apply the exemption method, which means that the resident State of the deceased or of the gift-giver withdraws the assets from the tax which may be taxed in the other State under the agreement. The double taxation agreement therefore applies to those persons who have a residence in one of the two Contracting States. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As this agreement has happened unanimously to the Committee, I am convinced that there will also be great approval in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14840	Thank you, honourable Member. Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. I ask you to take the seats. We come to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 665 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – Authorisation shall be granted unanimously. The request was adopted unanimously. 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1086 of the Supplements): Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution concerning the further reduction of sulphur emissions, including installations and declaration by the Republic of Austria (1216 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14891	We are now coming to item 13 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ellmauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e14919	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The threat to our environment by global environmental hazards has become particularly evident in the 1980s. At that time, the load of the atmosphere with air pollutants has already marked dramatic developments. Above all, the serious forest damage that was detected throughout Europe, but also in the USA and Canada – caused by the so-called acid rain – was an ecological crisis symptoms of the eighties. Various air pollutants, especially sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, have been blamed for these forest damage. In the 1980s, damage to the ozone layer was increasingly studied by the use of fluorocarbon hydrocarbons. It has also been discovered the so-called greenhouse effect associated with serious climate change on earth. Against the background of these global threats, the limits of national environmental policy have become visible at the time. The state's idea of sovereignty in the field of environmental protection had to be reduced in favour of global cooperation. The urgent need for better international cooperation in environmental protection has also led to the accession of the countries of Eastern Europe to the international agreements on air conservation. What measures have then been taken internationally? – In summary, international environmental policy has focused on three priorities in the field of air pollution in recent decades: First of all, there were global dangers resulting from the ozone hole, especially in the Poles. Secondly, a climate change on earth was threatened by a further enrichment of the atmosphere with carbon dioxide. And thirdly, various actions have been taken to limit the long-distance transport of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. What exactly can be understood by remote transport? – Under certain climatic conditions, air pollutants resulting from fossil energy combustion plants can be transported over thousands of kilometres. At the same time, these substances are filtered out by various cleaning mechanisms in the atomic sphere and are largely stored in the ground, in waters, on plants and trees. The result of this long-distance transport and the filtering of SO2 and NOx from the atmosphere is the acidification of soils and waters. Therefore, such international agreements as the 1979 Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution are very important steps towards reducing the acid deposition caused by sulphur. Austria has already acceded to this Convention in the early 1980s. However, since it has now expired, the conclusion of a new protocol has now become necessary. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Considering the development of Austria in recent years in the field of air pollution control, good conscience can be said: We are a model and a pioneer in environmental matters in the European Union. We are leading Europe-wide in reducing SO, i.e. sulphur oxide. In this respect, we were able to see a reduction of over 80 percent between 1980 and 1994 and are therefore OECD leaders. According to the Environmental Control Report, the emissions of most other air pollutants in Austria have also been significantly reduced. The highest is the decrease in nitrogen oxides, followed by carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds and carbon dioxide. Austria has therefore already fulfilled all the substantial commitments under this Protocol, in particular the reduction of sulphur emissions, but also the legal definition of the SO2 limit-value mission. The protocol calls for the reduction of sulphur content by 0.05% for diesel. This was implemented in Austria in October 1995. As a result of the many emission-reducing measures we have already taken domestically, we have already failed to meet the reduction target for Austria of 78 000 tonnes of SO2 required in the Protocol for the year 2000. Therefore, we no longer need to take additional measures to achieve this objective at national level. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we can rightly be proud of this. The real problem we are suffering from is the very high level of pollution freighting from abroad. The Federal Environment Agency shows that sulphur dioxide is imported to Austria at 95 percent. Only more than 5 percent of the total sulphur dioxide and sulphur monoxide exposure in Austria is due to emissions within our federal territory. This also shows the great environmental importance of the present Protocol for Austria. It is particularly important for us that our neighbouring countries, especially our northern, southern and eastern neighbours, have committed themselves to further SO2 emission reductions by 2010. It would therefore be essential that we continue to help our neighbouring countries, more strongly. Investments to reduce air pollutants in such countries also bring us enormous benefits, because in some cases emissions are still completely unfiltered and unreduced. However, investment in these countries could also create new areas of activity for the Austrian environmental industry. This could be enhanced by, for example, installing Austrian filter systems in countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Slovakia. In recent years, local environmental promotions abroad have concentrated mainly on environmental projects in the Czech Republic. About half of the total amount of funding granted went to the Czech energy sector to plan and design investments to reduce air pollutants or to optimise energy generation. For the projects funded, almost exclusively Austrian environmental consulting and environmental engineering companies were used. The fact is: If the pollutant values are respected by our neighbouring countries, we can expect that the proportion of acid deposits in our soils and waters will continue to decline in the future. Austria is one of the European countries most affected by this problem because of its geographical situation and meteorological conditions. This agreement is therefore an important international step towards improving the air situation in Austria in terms of sulphur pollution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15025	The request put forward by Mr Ellmauer is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15049	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After the comprehensive presentation of my previous speaker, I can significantly shorten my prepared speech. I would just like to focus on a few examples. How has this undoubtedly achieved good success for Austria? – You should say that again and again: It was not a gift from heaven, but it is a merit of the Austrian politics of the seventies and the early eighties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was the policy of the Social Democrats that was largely responsible for reducing sulphur dioxide emissions. But of course it was not just politics alone: Economic and industrial initiatives were also needed. In my opinion, there were three ways that had gone and led to the goal: One way was the now often maimed "end-of-pipe" technology of smoke gas desulphurization. A second way was the desulphurisation of crude oil products, diesel and heating oils. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, thank a man who at the time made a significant contribution as a leader and is sitting on the government bank today: I would like to thank Mr Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer for his efforts to reduce sulphur dioxide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The third way we continue today was the substitution of sulphur-rich fuels by low sulphur. We have switched to natural gas, which, of course, has led to the problems of our domestic coal with regard to a non-essential extension. You might think: The protocol is fulfilled, it is actually done, we extend it – much more does this item not come from. It has, however, been pointed out briefly by my previous speaker that it is important to sign this protocol again, so that it is also mandatory under international law in the future, because the situation in our neighbours does not look so good, not only in the countries of the former Eastern Bloc. There were still 5.8 million tonnes of sulphur dioxide emissions in Germany in 1990. In 2000, a reduction of 1.3 million tonnes will take place and only one to 990 000 tonnes in 2005. A significant amount of our sulphur depositions comes from the high-tech location of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! These international targets have shown, for example, sulphur dioxide that such contracts make sense. We will continue to conclude such agreements, and precisely today we have to mention the negotiations on the allocation of emissions according to Kyoto, on the re-separation of emissions within the "EU bell". Minister Bartenstein has come home with a negotiating result of 13 percent – a negotiating result that is a good result for Austria. I thank him for that, because the "backbag" he had was not that easy. The economy has explained to him: 8 per cent and no further step, we don't wear any more. The Greens have accused him of being among the invaders if he does not come home with a result of 20 to 25 percent – the same greens who have spoken in Kyoto of a "epochal success" at a reduction of 15 percent to 8 percent. As far as the issue of air pollution emissions and air pollution of our colleagues from the Greens is concerned today, one can see their "presence", but as before, we will continue our way even without the use of green words. Ladies and gentlemen! The Protocol to discussion strengthens us to reach the Kyoto requirements in Austria with international agreements. Together, we will be able to see if the Kyoto Protocol is extended: Austria has made its contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15119	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15140	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To respond immediately to the words of my previous speaker: I could have lived with it in the face of the "recksack" that Mr Umweltminister had, if only he had come home with 8 per cent, and I would also like to tell you why. Not because I believe that the Kyoto objective was not to reduce to the greatest possible extent: 8 per cent for the European Union. Then it was about the division: The higher the share of the reduction, which Austria officially takes over, the lower the proportion of those who actually cause CO2 emissions. A smaller proportion would not have prevented us from pursuing a higher CO2 reduction target in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's what we do! This is not excluded!]] Of course! But this necessarily reduces the proportion of neighbouring countries – and we know that Germany, for example, has almost double CO2 emissions – which does not really seem useful. But that is probably the observer's point of view. Now to this agreement. It makes sense to sign this agreement. The essential points have already been mentioned, and we agree on this. However, my previous speaker pointed out that 95 percent of the emissions of sulphur in oxidized form in Austria ultimately come from neighbouring countries. However, we must not hide the fact that despite the reduction which has been significantly advanced since the end of the 1970s, it is also being issued in Austria. So that means: Not all that is issued in Austria falls back on Austria as an Immission. That's what we need to see. In any case, we will agree to the signing of this protocol. We consider it appropriate to have the possibility of reviewing the progress of the other co-signed countries in this respect, although ultimately, in the case of disputes – if the objectives are not achieved in this way – the statement will have a recommendation character. Nevertheless, it is useful to develop a coordinated approach at international level. It has already been addressed the export chance that Austria has with regard to the export of environmental installations. Austria has a technology that we can rely on and that also opens up an export chance. I think that too is positive. We will agree to the accession to this protocol. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15178	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15232	I do not want to respond to this call, because there is a lot to be said about that. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The decision on the Protocol to the debate is in itself a formality, but I am already a little sad, because the environmental discussions in this House have had more "feffer" some time ago. When I imagine that... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because the Langthalers are missing!]] Not because Mrs Langthaler is gone, it may be, but there are other environmental speakers. It is not a speaker of the Greens, nor is it the chief speaker of the Greens in the environmental field, Karli Schweitzer. It is therefore not possible to verbally beat the Minister here today – Minister Bartenstein, not just the State Secretary – as one has done in the newspapers. That's what it says: Violent criticism comes from the Greens – and, I say, in parentheses, their precursor organisation Greenpeace, which, of course, beats the Minister. I've expected this to be an ordinary "slaughter" today. But it didn't come to that. I am a little sad about it because it shows the importance that environmental policy in Austria has in part. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: With the Greens!]] Mr Lukesch, with the Greens, yes, but also in the population. Let's not do anything! The environment is not the subject. There are, colleague Fekter, the mountain law and similar topics that go under the skin to people on the spot. That's much more important. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is also an environmental theme!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Really? I am pleased when the Chamber of Commerce has so much to do with environmentally-motivated interveners. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Back to the actual discussion. We are very proud that we have achieved a great deal in terms of SO2 emissions. If you look at the values, you notice that, I believe, we are almost world champions. However, I would like to remind you that we still have homework to do in the air. We have major problems in other areas: waste, groundwater, waste disposal; we know that. But there is also reason to worry about the air area – and that is why we should not rejoice too much: I am referring, above all, to increasing traffic and thus to increasing nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons – benzene; You know that comes from the cars; we have some large Austrian producers, but unfortunately I have no one from my company on the government bank I can praise. However, we also have problems in agriculture – Mr Schwarzenberger knows that. We are fighting the emissions of agriculture: methane, greenhouse gases, and with regard to CO2 values, we are not exactly world champions either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I know, with the cows you suggest a stick, don't you? [[Abg. May. Stadler: No!]] That would be a typical proposal of the liberals. Maybe he's still coming. He'd be fine. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A stopper, Mr Stadler, would be bad. But let me give you another hint so that you can see the problem. Mr Hofmann has been mistaken. He is right when he says that he is actually glad that the reduction target is only 8 per cent, because otherwise we would have had not only more, but the "sins" actually less. However, it overlooks the fact that only the EU countries are meant. He has rightly attracted Germany, but the true issuers who tang us in Austria are the Eastern countries at our borders. A comparison in this context: Austria: 8 kilograms of SO2 emissions per capita, Czech Republic: 106 kilograms per head per year. But it is fair to say that all these Eastern countries have been working hard since about 1989 – only before have they been on an enormously high level. The expenditure they have to spend in order to solve their environmental problems, I believe, amounts to some 1,700 billion schilling. They've got to put that on. If we want something to happen there earlier, we will have to think beyond our current environmental eastern fund, how we help these countries more effectively. This will be very important if we also want to create even better conditions for our people if we are to succeed in reducing not only the emissions from us, but also the immissions we obtain accordingly. In conclusion, I would like to say that, we certainly also need good ideas, perhaps also those of the stöpsel. But we also need a strong, fully preserved Federal Environment Agency. I think we all agree in that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15336	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining time of your club is 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15357	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I am, as it were, a recent member of the Green Club, I still have the most endurance or not as many frustration experiences in environmental matters as my colleagues. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Please!]] For eight years, Mr Langthaler has more or less borne the burden of this office, which means that her demands, proposals and initiatives are no more than, so to speak, calls of a human being in the desert. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (pointing to the green series) Why did all of them go home?]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why did they all go home?]] They have taken far too little into account what is legitimately required again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Why do the newspapers write that the Langthalers were so successful?]] The deficit we have accumulated in environmental policy measures, for example in the field of air pollution, will now come to an end. We now have the debate on this international agreement, and in the background is also the international agreement that has been reached in Kyoto. My previous speakers, particularly Mr Ellmauer, thankfully presented just in epic width and in detail what everything has to be done because of climate protection, which is mandatory because of the Kyoto decisions. But what actually happens, and what leads to the frustration that is more or less like a "streik" of the greens here? In Kyoto, the Minister for the Environment, who is not here now – clearly, clearly, understandably – has promised that Austria, which says time and again, is the pioneer, it is the pacemaker, that it is the parade example of an environmental policy, that it wants to reduce 25 percent of its CO2 emissions. He promised that in Kyoto: generous, big-mouthed – apologise for this expression. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. That's not true! He said in Kyoto that this must be renegotiated.]] He didn't agree to this at home, he didn't agree. That is why he can say that Austria is so nice and will achieve the goal that is being raised internationally, namely a reduction to a quarter, starting in 1988. He promised. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: A milestone was Kyoto!]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Colleague Langthaler called Kyoto "Meilenstein"!]] Minister Bartenstein has returned home, the promise is true, because Kyoto has legal character, and what has he avoided? What did he miss? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mrs Langthaler did not inform Mrs Moser!]] What did he press himself for again? – Before that, what he has promised in Kyoto, now in individual discussions, in individual negotiations with his colleagues – whether at ministerial level, whether at the level of the social partners, or at the level of the economic operators – it is concrete to negotiate, to bring concrete and modelly to reality. But he didn't do that! And now the thick end of the whole process is coming. So it is so true – how to say? – reduce the EU’s legislation, the EU’s binding action. And now he's in the clamp: In Kyoto, there is a great promise that nothing will be negotiated at home. Now he has to make nails with heads. The Minister said: 20 percent – this is the Austrian contribution. - All right. In the budget debate, I think, he went down to 19 percent. We've already complained. Mr Langthaler meant that this was the first withdrawal. And then you read in the paper: The Minister of Finance boycotts Bartenstein. The Minister of Economic Affairs also considers this to be unrealistic. The Chamber of Commerce is against it. The Industrial Union sees no way of ever reaching this Kyoto target. And what happens then at the EU negotiations? – Because Austria cannot meet its promises due to lack of internal coordination, even the EU agreements threaten to weaken. And what's going on under the line? – Micky 13 percent! Then you read great in the newspaper: If we were to make more of a reduction, then others could be able to reduce it. Therefore, we do not want 25 percent and not 20 or 19 percent, but we are satisfied with modest 13 percent. This is indeed to be agreed with other EU countries, and this results in the "wonderful" EU average of 8 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: The English have raised something!]] Please, that's bad environmental policy! In doing so, we have finally played out our role, which we repeatedly put on the flags, namely to be a pioneer, to play a stepmaker, to be regarded as a model country. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] We're blaming! Bartenstein has blamed himself – and he will get to hear this several times more – with this great announcement and this milky 13 percent under control. Finally, I would like to point out the real risk of CO2 and its source. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: The traffic!]] My previous speakers mentioned it in part: It's traffic. 33 percent of CO2 emissions come from traffic. Transport is basically the environmental problem number one, and the development is very clear here [[Abg. Marizzi: Do you have a car?]] [[the speaker holds a document with a graphic in height]] This is 1980, and we have 1997 and within these 17 years CO2 emissions have increased from 100 percent to 190 percent. That means, within 17 years there was almost a doubling. [[Abg. Marizzi: Do you have a car?]] You know, the development is continuing, continuing in this threatening direction. There will be further increases in CO2 emissions in the transport sector if not massively controlled, so to speak, the Volant will be torn around in the transport sector. Finally, this requires cost-effectiveness in the transport sector. To this end, it is also necessary to introduce the road performance-dependent mileage. In order to reach the ridiculous 13 percent, we must finally have consequences in the transport sector. I spoke briefly to the Secretary of State. We could once lock the lignite power plants which are almost no longer in operation. It'll hardly bring anything. We might still be able to implement thermal insulation measures. This will only have an effect in about ten years. What is needed immediately is a massive reduction in CO2 emissions from transport. And there must be public initiative, for example in the form of an increase in public transport, for example in the form of cost-effectiveness in transport. That is why I am going to plead for this, and I am about to make a request, that we will finally come to the cost of transport, in the sense of the EU,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15551	Ladies and gentlemen, please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15566	... so that this curve does not go up threateningly, but at least flattens and that 13 percent may become reality.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15597	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. As there is no final word from the rapporteur, we are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the place for that purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on the Environment, bearing in mind the request made by Mrs Ellmauer and Dr Doppelmüller, the conclusion of the present State Treaty and the annexes and declaration of the Republic of Austria, whose Article 11 is constitutional, to be approved in 1086 of the Supplements. With due regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first put in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the necessary constitutional quorum. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of approval to give an appropriate sign. – This authorisation shall be unilateral; it shall be granted. I shall now vote on the request made by Mrs Ellmauer and Dr Doppelmüller, according to which the present State Treaty applies in accordance with Article 50. 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. If you would like to accept this request, I would also ask for an appropriate sign. – This, too, is done with a light of votes. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request made by Mrs Ellmauer and Dr Doppelmüller for the purposes of Rule 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of the versions of the Protocol must be carried out in French and Russian by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done with a clear voice. This request has been accepted. 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 476/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Electricity Tax Act, Art. 60 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, the Natural Gas Tax Act, Art. 61 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act and the Energy Charge Act, Art. 62 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act (1215 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15676	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no reporting. There are no statements of speech, and the rapporteur does not ask for a final word either. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1215 of the supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This happens unilaterally. The request was accepted. I agree with Amendment No 476/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15731	I note that Mr Rosenstingl did not appear at this meeting either. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-18-020-XX-NRSITZ-00130_d7e15758	I would also like to say that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 813/A to 823/A. Questions 4556/J to 4585/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.17 p.m., immediately following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
