ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3212	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 112. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9 a.m. The Official Protocol of 111. Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Haselsteiner, Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Scheibner and Mag. Chief. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3249	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3531	Furthermore, the Government template concerning an agreement with Bolivia in 667 of the Supplements has been reached. After consultation with the members of the President's Conference, I suggest that we refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and putting it on the agenda for one of the next meetings. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. I very much welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who appeared here on the occasion of the budget speech. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also warmly welcome an official delegation from Norway, headed by President Kirsti Gröndahl. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3582	In accordance with § 69 of the Rules of Procedure, I have the request to take the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1999 and its investments at first reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3610	I would like to sum up the debate on points 3 to 7 and 9 to 11 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then let's go like that. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3639	We achieved consensus in the presidential session on the following procedure: A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Is there any objections to this proposal on the day-block speaking time? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 1999, including investments
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3672	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Mr Federal Minister for Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e3697	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can present to you today the draft budget for 1999. I would ask you to give this draft serious advice in the next few weeks and also to decide on it. The next year, Austria will be the first in a new Europe – a Europe with a single currency, with the euro, a Europe in which it will change the economic environment and, above all, bring more stability. The Austrian Federal Government is determined to contribute with its budgetary and fiscal policy in the coming year to the growth of this new common European economic and monetary area in strength and stability, as this will also increase our country's strength and stability. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Austria was the first country in the European Union to announce in February the fulfilment of the convergence criteria, which are the prerequisites for participating in the European currency. Now Austria will be the first country in the European Union to decide on the 1999 budget in the first half of 1998. This was important for a number of reasons, and that is why, in the second half of this year, we will be able to use all our power to ensure that Austria's presidency in the European Union will be a success for our country and for the Community. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The European Commission and the European Monetary Institute will present their convergence reports to the public today in Brussels or Frankfurt. They will thus give an important orientation to which EU countries can participate in the single currency. At the beginning of May, the European Council in Brussels will definitely decide on the participants in the first round of the European Economic and Monetary Union. Everything points out that there will be 11 EU Member States. Austria meets the criteria for participation in economic and monetary union: We have very low inflation in Austria, we have low interest rates, and we are participating in the European exchange rate mechanism. The "Maastricht deficit" of Austria was significantly below the reference value of 3 percent in the previous year with 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. And the total government debt was reduced from 69.5% in 1996 – as measured by gross domestic product – to 66.1 percent in 1997. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have a currency with the euro in Europe that can compete with the most important currencies in the world, the dollar or the yen. In future, the European internal market will be spared from depreciations, which have caused the Austrian economy and the Austrian labour market to suffer again and again during this decade. This single European currency is a strong response from Europe to the enormous economic and political transformations of the past two decades that have also affected our country. The world economy experienced a strong liberalisation at this time. This has revived world trade, opened up new labour markets, but also made it visible in the social, wage and environmental sectors of the trading partners. Competition distortions as well as technical progress and state-of-the-art communications have led to higher unemployment, especially in traditional industries. The liberalisation of capital markets also increased the pressure on enterprises. Large European companies not only need to compete with their goods and services of international competition, but also compete for the favor of investors and shareholders. Comprehensive restructuring programmes are being implemented which, while improving the income situation, often lead to a reduction in the number of employees. In many companies new forms of organization have taken place. Decentralisation and networking, transfer of skills and decisions to smaller operational units and other business locations often create fundamentally new work processes and thus also changed working conditions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, before the turn of the millennium, the single market will remain largely in Europe. The free flow of goods, services, capital and labour is actually possible. Austria could, and does not want to decouple itself from these developments. Those who believe they can meet these challenges with a border-dight policy have not recognized the signs and possibilities of time! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Then: These changes took place and took place. The question of how actively we are going to address these and participate in our interest must be answered. For me, the answer to these new challenges is clear, it is: actively shape the framework conditions for life and economy in and for Austria. At the same time, however, we are aware of our responsibility in Europe, that we are shaping a Europe with social responsibility for people and with regard to the environment. We want a European Union, which, through the weight of its Member States, including in international organisations, and not least with the euro as a future world currency, ensures that our concepts of a fair, a social market economy do not conflict despite globalisation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In a global competition of different interests, the Austrian Federal Government continues to insist on strengthening the economic location and habitat of Austria in a new Europe for these new challenges. This is about securing a fair share of the growing prosperity of our country's citizens. It is important to ensure adequate social security and to ensure that work is created and not neglected in the fight against unemployment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the Austrian Federal Government has made significant reforms in modernising the economic, social and administrative conditions: The trade regulation has been liberalised. An administrative reform has been launched. The Telekom area was deregulated. The opening of the electricity market will be a reality in 1999. The pension systems have been changed. A technology and export offensive was launched. Businesses in the state sector have become and are privatized. But we have also liberalised the capital market and reformed the stock market, which I think is particularly important, because we want domestic companies to have the same opportunities to reach equity as their international competition. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This makes it easier for companies to grow and is also better protected from crises. The capital and stock market reform is therefore also an important factor in securing home jobs. The euro will lead to changes in the European capital markets and to a changed investment behaviour of institutional investors. The liberalisation of capital markets and the increase in competition are therefore also linked to institutional reforms. We need a most modern trading place in the form of the Vienna Stock Exchange, where investors' interests are preserved. With the redesign of the Vienna Stock Exchange on a private basis, the merger of Wiener Börse AG with ÖTOB and the establishment of the Federal Securities Supervisory Board, we have taken decisive steps to increase the attractiveness of the Austrian capital market. With an amendment to the Investment Fund Act, we have contributed to the recovery of the Austrian capital market and have also created the possibility of establishing pension investment funds. This will provide a further instrument for private pension provision. Finally, a Takeover Act for the Protection of Small Investors is being worked on in corporate takeovers. Our capital market reform therefore serves to improve the important foundations for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, for banks and investors, which enable new investment and higher employment in Austria in an enhanced international competition. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has gained in quality thanks to many reforms and decisions in recent years. We have a high level of employment. We have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union and one of the lowest in the world. Austria has become one of the most price stable countries in the world. Our country has a remarkably high social and environmental standard. Austria will be able to participate in economic and monetary union. And we have also successfully started the consolidation of public budgets in a large joint effort. Some have doubted the success of budget consolidation. And it was indeed a difficult and in many areas little grateful task, but we have begun it in the knowledge of the responsibility for this country. We have consolidated state finances through expenditure discipline, respect for social balance and economic impact, and through gaps on the revenue side. We were able to halve the annual budget deficit almost half of 1995 and thus reduce it by around 50 billion schilling. And we have made structural, long-term reorientations in expenditure as well as in revenue. Today I can say: Austria has successfully followed the path of budget consolidation! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The state finances are relatively good today. The country is in economic upturn. We were able to prevent social tensions. And we have maintained one of the most important competitive advantages of Austria, namely the social partnership consensus and social peace in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, here too Europe can learn from us. The successful model of the Austrian social partnership should also resolve economic and social conflicts of interest in Europe for the benefit of all parties involved peacefully. A Europe of peace must also be a Europe of social peace. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We don't want a record of the conflicts on the street. We do not want to build new social fronts in Europe. We want the social partners to work together to find solutions. And we also want governments to seek consensus with the social partners in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that is, as the Austrian model impressively proves, for the greatest benefit of all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the present phase, it is now about ensuring sound state finances for the future. We want to create by a continuous, socially sound further reduction in the deficit the margin required in the case of negative economic developments to counter tax, but which will also enable the planned and desired tax reform in 2000. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The 1999 budget serves these objectives. It will be a safe foundation for our country to move into a new Europe and into a new century. Stability and security for our country, for the population and for the economy alike, will have priority next year. After years of profound change, the Austrian Federal Government's financial and tax policy will be the stable framework in the coming year for the upward development of the economy, which will create new jobs and create opportunities for the tax reform mentioned above. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1999 Federal Estimate provides revenue of 697.5 billion and expenditure of 767.6 billion Schilling. The finish will be 70.1 billion schilling. This is less than 2.6% of the gross domestic product of probably 2 735 billion schilling. For the first time, the budget deficit will for the first time be significantly below the forecast real economic growth of about 3 percent, according to our objective. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Is there the pussy? Including pan or exclusive buffer?]] The 1999 Federal Estimate builds essentially on the draft negotiated in the previous year, taking into account some current developments, such as the new family promotion or the "national action programme" for employment. Despite some additional expenditure, there will be no tax increases in 1999. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our aim is not to raise taxes. We are trying primarily to ensure that the taxes due to the State actually originate. Because sales tax revenues in the previous year – this is a pan-European phenomenon – were significantly lower compared to the estimate and not in line with economic upturn, we will take measures to increase sales tax revenues. With the help of data processing, we will monitor current VAT payments more closely and make risk analyses. We will focus our auditing capacities on VAT verifications. We will also strengthen cooperation between social security and wage tax audit in the framework of measures to combat undeclared work. On the other hand, I say quite openly, we will shorten the examination period in the case of self-admissions. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to protect honest taxpayers from those who harm the State and therefore the Community through unfair tax reductions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austria – I mentioned it – is in the middle of an economic upturn. The growth impulses are mainly borne by exports, which will reduce the current account deficit. The Federal Government expects real economic growth to be 2.8 percent, even though economic researchers now expect a growth of 3 percent. The economic researchers' forecasts also assume that in 1999 income, private consumption and goods exports will increase significantly. Both inflation and interest rates will remain low thanks to the euro perspective. That is to say, the Austrian population can see with optimism the year 1999. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would like to point out that – as has proved to be the best thing so far – that we want to create the budget on a safe basis. A three-quarters year before the beginning of the fiscal year and more than 21 months before its end, no one can predict with absolute certainty whether, for example, the crisis in Southeast Asia has a direct or indirect impact on the European economy and in what dimensions, in what way or at what height Austria might be affected. This is also a reason why we want to commit 5 percent of the planned discretion expenditure for the time being. In any event, the Austrian Federal Government will, at a very moving time with its budgetary and economic policy, contribute to the greatest possible degree to stability and security and to a healthy and strong upward development of our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In recent decades, we have managed to increase our economy above average, to increase productivity, employment is higher than elsewhere, and income is growing more than in many other countries. We have become one of the richest countries. And we all want this to remain the same. A successful economy, the opportunity for every person to work and get to education, a social and just society, an intact environment, high-performance public services, comprehensive security and a living democracy: These are widely consistent values. The economic success factors, ladies and gentlemen, which need to be pursued, are the commitment to fair competitive conditions, low inflation rates, investment in research and development, well-trained employees, a good infrastructure and the global development of markets. We want to promote these success factors through budgetary policy and economic policies. The budget is therefore more than a numbering work. It is and must be the expression of the political will of those responsible in this state. The focus of the 1999 budget is therefore: 1. increased investment to create and safeguard employment and the increased fight against unemployment, 2. more money for education and research, 3. more money for families and, last but not least, 4. more money for security. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Economic researchers say that employment will increase next year and unemployment will fall to 4.2%. So we note that our country is in a difficult time on the right track. In terms of high employment and the low unemployment rate, Austria will continue to take good top positions in the European and worldwide comparisons. Nevertheless, and that is why we want to continue to intensify our efforts to secure and create jobs and to combat unemployment. To create work for the people in Austria – this is a focus of the 1999 budget! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will contribute very actively and sustainably to the country's economic development, to the increase of employment and to the fight against unemployment in 1999. As a low-cost country, ladies and gentlemen, Austria certainly has no future. We will therefore invest in education and active labour market policies. In 1999, we will provide more budget resources for active labour market policy by 1.5 billion schilling. Of these, 1 billion is spent by re-transmissions, and 500 million are available in addition. For the unemployed not only to create a financial basis for life, but to open up new career opportunities for them and thus to give them new life prospects – that is the real goal of our work! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Work is an elementary part of life. The loss of the workplace not only threatens human existence, but high unemployment is also a dangerous social and political explosive. In the interests of peace, democracy and humanity in our country, therefore, the fight against unemployment is so important to us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The "national action programme" of the Federal Government will provide decisive impetus for employment and the labour market. It is based essentially on those objectives which the European Union formulated in Luxembourg last year, with the significant participation of Austria. That means: We invest in active labour market policy programmes. We want to involve more unemployed people than before in this process in order to promote their qualification and employment. This should take particular account of young people and the long-term unemployed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our aim is to further debureaucratisation in the area of investment rights, procurement rights, or also through central access points for government applications, as well as by promoting equity-building more business creations than before. We want new jobs – for example in the field of social services – to be created through new environmental technologies, investment in transport infrastructure and liberalisation of the professional professions market. Finally, we want to increase the career opportunities of women, for example through additional kindergartens and childcare facilities. The budget also provides 600 million schilling. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] The aim must therefore be a common national effort which will create more jobs in our country and further reduce unemployment. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, the efforts of the Federal Government for economic impulses and more employment are by far no longer alone in the budget. The increased commitment to more employment is also reflected in the investments of the distributed companies: in the ASFINAG, in SCHIG and in the BIG. In 1999, nearly 23.4 billion schilling will be invested in these three distributed companies. These are about 4.5 billion schillings more than this year, and this is an investment boost that can be seen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is why I am saying this so clearly because budgetary figures are always compared, and it is forgotten that there have been huge outlays for good reasons. Together with budget expenditure on economic promotion, industrial and commercial support, labour market policies and agricultural support, some 52.3 billion schilling will benefit directly from the security and creation of jobs in our country in 1999. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! An essential factor for the development of the Austrian economy and thus for employment in our country is the success of the Austrian export economy. More than a quarter of our value added is achieved through export. With a number of measures that we have adopted in the framework of the German Federal Government's export campaign and for which we also propose 300 million Schilling as a special budget in 1999 we want to continue to support export activity. Austrian companies should be encouraged to export more, to form cooperation with other exporters and to venture to new export markets. We therefore equipped the FGG with higher equity in 1997. It is now active as an investment company for Austrian companies, particularly in the neighbouring countries of Eastern Europe. This is done with the aim of opening up additional opportunities for participation and export opportunities for Austrian companies. The FGG's guarantee framework for the development of financing measures is expected to be increased by 10 billion Schilling in 1998 to a total of 30 billion. We also expect impulses from the further development of the Austrian export financing and guarantee system. The remuneration for exchange guarantees has been reduced according to credit security, which means a significant cost relief for the export industry. A study fund for consulting services will be set up at the Austrian Control Bank this year. The advisory services of the Control Bank will be strengthened together with the banks and the Economic Chamber. In addition to the results of the trade balance, the Austrian current account will be decisively influenced by the results of the tourism industry. The Austrian tourism industry is facing a high competitive pressure. In order to improve the financing structures of Austrian tourism companies, but also to facilitate the financing of innovative tourism projects, Minister of Economy Dr. Farnleitner and I are planning an extension of the public liability framework. Promoting the development of new, exportable products, promoting the export activity of Austrian companies and new impulses for the tourism industry are important performance-balance-sheet measures of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In addition to direct investment, innovation in the long-term job security is particularly important. We are therefore providing an additional billion schilling for technology and export in 1999 too. Know-how and more export – this represents the biggest growth opportunities for the Austrian economy and the future employment opportunities! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Education has always had a very high priority in Austria – also in international comparison. Education is also a crucial basis for a modern, progressive and democratic society. To ensure education and special vocational training to the greatest extent possible for the people of our country are important objectives of our education policy. Therefore, in addition to the new impulses for continuing vocational training and qualification through labour market policy, we will also equip schools and universities in 1999 with significantly more resources to carry out their important tasks. Know-how, innovation and a powerful public sector are factors for the prosperity of our country. The maintenance of the social state and the development of the infrastructure state are therefore important objectives. We therefore see important approaches to our actions in the design of cooperation between public and private sectors. Against the background of dynamic international development, society needs a powerful state that is non-mighty and impenetrable. But we also need a state that focuses on our lives. The change in the environment and the demand behaviour of citizens for public services requires constant development, as the capacity of the private sector is also determined by the quality of the public sector. The Federal Government therefore adopted a comprehensive programme for administrative innovation in December 1997. This is about the redesign of public services, the development of employees, improvements in work processes and the use of state-of-the-art means of communication. Reliability, fairness and partnership are important values of our society. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need employees in the public service who are aware of their responsibilities in a special way, and I believe that we are on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! For an important infrastructure area in our country, 1999 will be of particular importance, namely for the E-Economics. In February 1999, the free electricity market in Austria will become reality. The transition from monopoly to free competition means great efforts for the Austrian electricity industry and the people employed in this sector. However, the transition from monopoly to free competition also means cheap electricity prices. We want to offer international competitive conditions to Austrian industry and to Austrian consumers in order to secure investment and employment in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will therefore gradually open the electricity market in 1999. In the coming weeks and months, the legislator is required to lay down fair rules of play for market participants by deciding on the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act. The protection of domestic hydropower, the promotion of renewable energy sources, the respect for small customers and smaller energy suppliers as well as a provision of protection for lignite until 2008 are our special concerns. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to the reorganisation of the electricity market, it is also necessary to work on the new structures for Austrian electricity companies. We need a strong Austrian e-business that has grown the requirements of a liberalised market. Any remaining conflicts of interest must therefore be resolved and all forces committed to the common objective. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a safe country and should remain it in the future – certainly in social and economic interests, certainly also when it comes to the personal and physical security of the individual or the external security of the country. A total of 1 billion schillings will therefore be budgeted higher in 1999 for the internal, judicial and defence sectors. In important areas, human resources will be strengthened to ensure the protection of our borders, which are also the borders of the European Union, in accordance with the Schengen Agreement and to continue to carry out our international peacekeeping tasks. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: NATO!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary policy is also a key factor in social and social policy, as it is always about the issue of distribution justice and protection against poverty. A particular focus of the 1999 budget is therefore the reform of family support. Following in-depth negotiations, the Federal Government has agreed on a new family promotion aimed at helping families more financially than before. From 1999 onwards, there will be an increase in child support by 250 S per child per month, with a second stage of 2000 once more 250 S per child and month. From 1999 onwards, there will be an additional monthly bonus of 200 S from the third child and 400 S from 2000 onwards – also from the third child. Finally, the increase in the so-called negative tax from 2 000 S to 5 000 S per year is important for single and low-income single-income educators. This new family support, ladies and gentlemen, is one half of the budget and the family compensation fund. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this area, we have tried to find a solution which is not only financeable, but above all socially balanced, so that those who need the aid of the State are more helped than others. We have taken important steps along this path. Lower income families, in particular those with low to average incomes, will be relatively increased from 1999 onwards. Austria is one of the most social and family-friendly countries in the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the new regulation on family taxation of course also has an impact on the financial possibilities for tax reform. After all, this advance to the 2000 tax reform will give a substantial tax relief to around two thirds of all Austrian households, where 5 million people live together. A tax reform in 2000 is intended to pave the way for taxpayers, the economic location of Austria and the environment in the tax system. The cost-effective relief of the labour factor, the ecologisation of the system and, I would point out, the convergence compatibility are important projects. The Tax Reform Commission will present, as planned, first proposals for discussion in the autumn of this year. But it is important – I would also like to stress here – that a tax reform is not exclusively – not exclusively! – to assess the extent to which it brings down tariff cuts, but also the extent to which it reorganises, simplifies, eliminates injustices and contributes to social balance. Tax policy is an important social policy issue. And I am already trying to hold the debate on tax reform with the greatest possible degree of physicality and sense of responsibility for our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, tax policy is also a matter of European importance. Economic and monetary union and the internal market will strengthen the economic relations of the EU Member States. The legal framework in this common market must ensure a maximum level of fairness and equal opportunities. One of the crucial conditions after the creation of the single currency is a harmonised tax system, which can only be achieved in a process that is not feasible from today to tomorrow. The remaining differences in tax systems, unfair tax competition and tax havens lead to distortions of the market that need to be reduced. The most pressing tax policy objectives are – like with us – the relief of the labour factor and the question of ecologisation. According to a European Commission study, the tax burden on the labour production factor increased by more than 7 percent between 1980 and 1994, while the burden on other factors of production, such as capital and energy, fell by more than 10 percent. Austria must and will become particularly active in this area as part of its EU Presidency. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Financial relations with the EU budget are of great importance for medium-term budgetary policies in Austria. The future financing of the European Union is therefore an important issue. The current discussion on Agenda 2000 must therefore be determined in particular from the point of view of economy and reforms. We are one of the richest countries in the Union, and we are also part of the principle of solidarity and burden-sharing within the Community. However, in the interests of the citizens of our country, we want and must insist on a fair balance within the Union, which does not overpower individual Member States, does not deteriorate their net pay position, but nevertheless enables new tasks. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have therefore recently pointed out to the Commission, in line with my German, Swedish and Dutch counterparts, the situation of net payers and the need for corrections. And we will also represent this position in the forthcoming negotiations on the financial aspects of Agenda 2000. This agenda, ladies and gentlemen, is a medium-term policy target of the Union, which brings with it economic, structural and financial reorientations and challenges. It also makes it clear that Europe is more than the Union. Europe is a great area of prosperity and peace. In this sense, enlargement of the Union is therefore a great task and opportunity for all. Because it is a great peace initiative for our continent, it is an opportunity to reduce the gap of prosperity between Western and Eastern Europe, thus ensuring the further development of democracy throughout Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The trade flows between Western and Eastern Europe have multiplied since the opening of the East. Austria has a geographically exposed position and is at the forefront of investment in Eastern Europe. The opening of the east also created new jobs and additional economic growth. A further improvement of these relations is therefore also in the interest of our country. Of course, enlargement of the Union must be well prepared. The prosperity gap between East and West, which has so far promoted the migration of people, must be reduced. It is therefore appropriate for the Union to support the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in their recovery process, as was the case with the enlargements of Spain, Portugal and Greece. On the other hand, there must be transitional periods in the interests of neighbouring countries such as Austria, as in the case of previous enlargements, for example in the area of the free movement of workers. The specific situation of the respective EU border regions must be taken into account, as in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria will have a chance in the second half of the year to take a significant step towards the European Union's path to the next millennium. We will also benefit from this particular challenge in joint effort for our country and for the Community. Europe's eyes will be aimed at Austria, at a country where unemployment is low and social security is high, where cities are clean and safe and where environmental protection is taken into account. No one is doing a good job in our country if he makes these achievements bad. Instead, we should do everything we can to make this Europe, in the sense of the quoted content, a little more Austrian at the end of this year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We face many major and important tasks and challenges. The Federal Government has developed a stable and secure basis with the 1999 budget estimate. I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in the creation of the budget. I would like to thank my colleagues, who, based on a common objective, have worked very hard on their implementation. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Farnleitner, who has been very constructive, friendly and targeted in all the negotiations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the excellent staff in the Federal Ministry of Finance and in the other ministries and bodies which have contributed a lot to success with their detailed knowledge and ideas. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am also particularly grateful to the countries and communities that have contributed to the path of fiscal consolidation and stability in recent years. The cooperation of the local authorities on this issue is of great importance. The countries and communities have shown a high level of responsibility, thus providing our country with a great service. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The process of cooperation has recently been given new quality through the agreement on the consultation mechanism or the state reform. We will therefore work even more closely in the future than we have so far when it comes to developing the legal and financial foundations of our country, our common home country Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to take a closer look at the budget forecast in the coming weeks and then decide on it. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4038	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Debates of the European Parliament [[Abg. Haigermoser: (Applause) We thank the taxpayer!]] Request for brief debates on requests 3566/AB and 3529/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4075	Before we go to the 2nd place. I should like to point out that, prior to the entry into the agenda, four requests have been made for short debates. Deputies Dr. In accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, Partik-Pablé and Comrades requested that a brief debate be held on the reply to Question 3566/AB by Dr. Partik-Pablé and others on the establishment of premises by the Federal Minister for the Interior. The request of Mrs Magistrate lies also. Mr Kammerlander proposed to hold a brief debate on the 3529/AB reply to Question 3520/J by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on the multilateral agreement on investment by Mr Bundeskanzler. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4105	Thirdly, I say that a request for a brief debate on the request made by Dr Povysil and Comrades to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 693/A (E) by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on medicinal products and medicinal products, to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs for a period of 16 months. ==References== Finally, I declare that there is a request for a brief debate on the request made by Dr Kier and Comrades, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 429/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the People's Rights Act 1973, a period of time until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States. Since the request for short debates was made at the same time, it is for the order § 57b para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which first the debate on the replies to the questions and then the debates on the requests for deadlines must take place. Within these two groups is § 60 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. This is the order in which I have read the request, and we will start the first debate on this at 3 p.m. Debates of the European Parliament 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1080 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz on the amendment of the National Bank Act 1984, the Scheidemünzengesetz, the Schilling Act, the Foreign Exchange Act and the Capital Market Act, the repeal of the transitional right on the occasion of an amendment to the National Bank Act 1955, the Bundesgesetz of 12. January 1923 on the transfer of the Austrian-Hungarian Bank's transactions, Austrian management, to the Austrian National Bank, the Federal Act of 18 January 1973. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 74/1959, and the Federal Law on Contributions by the Republic of Austria to International Financial Institutions, BGBl. No. 171/1991 (1090 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4145	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. I do not have a desire for reporting, so we are going into the debate at once. Mr Dr. Haider came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4172	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the National Bank Act has become necessary because soon the European Central Bank will be created and therefore essential powers of monetary and financial policy will be delegated. If you look at the structure of this law, you will, of course, get the impression that the great coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP has not learned anything from the Proporzgesetz of 1955. It is also set in this new law concerning the Oesterreichische National Bank in a way that is just as insolent as the Party's propaganda of Red and Black, so that the Honolulu agreement of earlier times has to be described as a depoliticization pact against what is now again packed in this law on a rigid red-black propor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is - if you look at this - a General Council, in which a power ratio of seven to seven is agreed between red and black. The interesting thing about it is that one has even gone to disarm the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in the course of the appointment of the institutions of the National Bank, because he is apparently an unreliable cantonist. A Federal President, who calls himself independent, obviously does not enjoy the confidence of the great coalition. Therefore, the General Council's officials and organs will no longer be appointed by the Federal President, but by the Federal Government. You stay there. It is also noted that the shares in the Oesterreichische National Bank, if they do not concern the 50 percent of the Republic, in turn only hold companies in the dark of SPÖ and ÖVP. The General Council shall be appointed without a public invitation to tender. That is, Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has already cleared himself after a few months of his own announcement. In connection with the scandal about the Austro-Austrian control bank and the suicide of Mr Praschak, he has announced that there will be a public tender under guarantee in all public functions. – The General Council of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, which is a very important body, does not even have the approach of a public tendering procedure. If one reads the law, one even notices that the Executive Board is ordered only on the basis of nonbinding three-way proposals. In the end, the Federal Government reserves the right to decide so that no wrong person is ordered so that exclusively red and black party members are nominated. This is also interesting in this respect, when, in particular, the fight is being fought to keep the central bank completely independent – perhaps the Minister of the Interior would have given up independence in Austria, and the National Bank would be taken more than ever to the kandare of the red-black coalition – at a time when it is fighting for the independence of the national banks. I therefore believe that this proportion, as it has been cemented here, is a document of moral decay of the great coalition, which clearly shows that the great coalition is not prepared to learn from the mistakes of the past. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This law is also a document for the provision of non-usable political officials. It is generally prohibited by law that public servants take up a role in the Oesterreichische National Bank's organization, such as directors of the National Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Rüsch in Vorarlberg!]] Mr. Feurstein, you have been involved in this document of terror – a Lex Novotny by creating an exception for Professor Novotny and saying: Professor Novotny is an official as a university professor, but he is allowed to become a national bank director; he has such a frustration that he has become nothing in Parliament for decades, now he gets a consolation pavement and is "disposed" into the Austrian National Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's got so much practice!]] Mr Novotny! We know you're going to antichambrite so you can get the director's position in the National Bank. To do this, we also had to define the "major suit Novotny" in the law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] The second care post, Mr. Novotny, concerns the wife of the Chamber of Labour Tumpel. It is planned that Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell will also come to the board so that the "poor workers' chamber family" with about 6 to 7 million schillings will have enough time to live. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Unheard!]] Thirdly, it is known that Mr. Vice-Chanceller Schüssel wants to "get rid of" his press secretary – Mr. Pribil, for example – to the National Bank. So this law had to be created so that there were no longer any obstacles to non-useable political actors. They are to be "get rid of" into the deposit of the Oesterreichische National Bank. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4261	Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that the list of speakers is now complete, so I would ask that the Assembly be dissolved next to the Bureau. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Please take a seat! I should also like to ask colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to take up the seats. - Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4282	Fourthly, it can be noted that the ÖVP has also negotiated skill to ensure the inheritance of the national bank president or future governor. After all, there has been an interesting variant of how the new governor is ordered: The governor is advocating himself! Mr Liebscher has already been in the house today, but he has carefully withdrawn to save himself the embarrassment when it becomes known that he will nominate himself. As President of the National Bank and President of the General Council, he will apply himself, carry out an examination of his quality as governor and then submit to the Federal Government the proposal that he be ordered, because he is clearly the best! [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] So this is the "double check" of the great coalition to get their partygoers and trusted competitors in the proporz corset! One essential point in this amendment is that, as I believe, it is absolutely incompatible with the rule of law. It is therefore incompatible because the three major banks in the red and black sphere of influence – Raiffeisen-Zentralbank, BAWAG as the union bank, Bank Austria as the red domain and the playing field of Mr Randa and Climate – hold a general council in the decisive General Council of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, although the National Bank has the competence to act as a reporting point for large loans and bank supervision audits are also carried out by the National Bank. – Now someone has to explain to me how an objective examination can take place if the main competitors, Bank Austria, BAWAG and the black Raiffeisen central bank, are able to survey and obtain information about the large credit movements and the details of the customer business and the credit movements of their competitors. This is a blatant break with all market principles! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: An unfrozenness!]] Finally, however, this also means that the controllers themselves control themselves. And especially the ÖVP, who was so sorry about the concentration of power at BAWAG and Bank Austria, plays part here because its own black Raiffeisen party basically gets the same rights of distortion of competition as it was granted to the red side. And this coalition announced to us just a few minutes ago by the Minister of Finance that it was for the fair market economy! This is an unfair market economy that you maintain here is a party book economy, as it was not on the agenda in the worst times of the 1950s! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's for the wheeze!]] The National Bank remains a self-service shop of first quality through this law. With the votes of the two government parties, Parliament has given a binding mandate that all employees entering the National Bank from 1997 onwards should be placed with pension funds under normal ASVG pension law. This order has not been complied with, and yet the government is continuing to maintain the condition that there is a special pension right in the National Bank. This special pension right has resulted in about 25,000 million Schilling pension reserves, which are not only preserved, but - that is the interesting - can be increased by 10 percent each year according to the law from the profits. How seriously do you take yourself? On the one hand, you say: We have to have justice exercised, so in the future there are only more ASVG sanctions in the National Bank!, but on the other hand, you are now creating sources of funding, where the billions are being juggling around. If you, Mr Feurstein, would just put up the bill and pay a proper interest rate, as each pension fund must do, with 6 per cent of the reserves, and not with 3.25 per cent of the pension reserves, as you do now in the balance sheet, then you would not need 25 billion Schilling pension reserves for the old taxes, but only about 15 billion Schilling. This means that you already have at your disposal 10 billion schillings to do what the Minister of Finance is apparently unable to make a tax reform with this amount and carry out corresponding discharges from the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have a pension provision per employee in the National Bank of 10 million Schilling coverage. That is, in case of an annual interest rate you reach 1.5 billion Schilling interest, although you have only 904 million Schilling pension payout. That is, you take more interest for the reserves than you have current pension payments. – I think this is probably the most striking proof that this model you offer us means nothing but in future to provide privileges and special rights to red and black party guests, instead of finally making order. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why we say the liberals: It's going to be bad! – As bad is played, it is seen that the Oesterreichische National Bank in its recent report "Information for Mandaters March 1998" makes the mandates of ÖVP and SPÖ stupid. The Oesterreichische National Bank distributes an information for Members, in which the pension reserves of 25 billion Schilling are not listed under "Reserves", Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] You don't seem like it anymore! We know, however, that, with pension reserves and free reserves, around 114 billion Schilling is immediately available capital, which belongs to Austrians. – What do you say? What is this sloppy novel, which you accept here and which, in turn, enables the National Bank to pass billions of money by the legislator used for privileges and special rights? We'll tell you: Get out with this 114 billion schilling! Of these 114 billion schillings, we want to have at our disposal 20.30 billion schillings for a tax reform. That is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Minister of Finance, say to the public today: We have no money for the tax reform! Mr Liebscher told you that the National Bank's reserves had been sacrosanct until 2002. We are not talking about foreign exchange reserves either, we are talking about free reserves, and Mr Liebscher may be pleased to note that the liberals are not asking for the release of foreign exchange reserves. We call for the free reserves to be dissolved, because in addition to the foreign exchange reserves of 230 billion Schilling, the National Bank has said that it writes 114 billion free reserves, which are not bound, which are available at any time for a meaningful measure of tax reduction policy. Workers have been waiting for a tax reform for ten years. Ten years ago they paid 88 billion Schilling payroll tax – this year they will pay 190 billion. You, Mr Edlinger, have pointed out that there will be no new tax increases. Yes, you might want to increase taxes even further, at a time when your government policy has more burdened the workers with more than 100 billion schillings? That's where the comfy stops! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister, take part of these reserves and now make a tax reduction! You know that the lower and middle incomes in the field of self-employed persons bear the main burden of your stress policy. Make the effort and expect who is mainly affected by your load package. A beneficiary of a income of 20 000 S gross has been involved by your savings package and tax measures. More on wage tax of 29.7 percent; a Member of Parliament in Austria with 100 000 S grosso has to bear only a more than 3.4 percent of wage tax through your tax package. Thus, a socialist government that says social justice is important, the "little man" must be in the foreground: You cement the privileges of red and black in the National Bank, you protect the billion-heavy reserves, you guarantee the proportion, but you refuse the tax reform that would be necessary for the diligent and skilled Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can still be duffled by the National Bank's officials. I read here that for example, Director-General Wala, who belongs to your party, lets you judge: Anyone who attacks the reserves is a drug addict, because once you give them something, they become repeaters. – After this is a fine communication in the leading society of red and black! That's where the intoxicator, who's already considering how to attack the reserves, and Wala's documenting it. You'll have to discuss that! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: He didn't mean me!]] He will have already meant you, because in an interview that I have here, he will reply to your considerations that you are taking part of the national bank reserves to stop the budget holes. That's the difference to us: They want to stop budget holes with reserves – we want to reduce taxes so that the Austrians have some of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! You are making a nationalization with this novel, that is, you say that the National Bank has nothing to talk about in the field of monetary policy, but it is allowed to open up new fields of business. It can do everything and has – the Federal Chamber will be particularly pleased – privileges in tax law, privileges in operating plant permits; for example, a printing plant, which has now been built by 5.2 billion schilling, does not require an operating permit. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. How, then, can you agree with a law in which such a thing is possible? Or do you also agree that the National Bank now has the opportunity to open up new business areas through its participation in the Austrian coin, for example in the casino and lottery area? – Of course, there are already all the companies involved, it is not only the National Bank that is interested in getting involved in the play business and buying it. I read in the diagram of the participations that even the Archdiocese of Vienna is involved in the casino and lottery companies of Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the principal society of the bishops is involved in the archdiocese! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The Krenn too!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I think that's great! That is why I think you should quickly let this novelle disappear again in the sinking. [[Abg. May. Stadler: When they're cashed, they're there!]] You have a problem because you probably can't explain to us why a party that defends the market economy is carrying out a new nationalization, even to the detriment of the Austrians, one must say, if one considers that, for example, the Austrian coin, which belongs to the National Bank, has purchased coin companies in Germany and now advertises coins for the first Austrian euro and sells it across Europe, although this is a pure deception, because the money that must not be placed on the market. I wonder very slowly what habits exist in the Austrian National Bank: One advertises for a money that will not exist, and people pay a lot of schilling for them to be able to buy the first euro coins – in good faith, because this is given as a nominal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Fraud is called something like that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot to do – up to the privileges. There are still 17.5 months of pay compensation for each employee, there are still for those who took up a 2% pension contribution before 1993...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4474	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4489	... 85 per cent of the last terms. There is still a special care allowance, there are still special family allowances, there are still favoured apartments with 17 s per square meter for employees, there are still...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4519	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4549	Ladies and gentlemen! With today's amendment to the National Bank Act, we meet another prerequisite for Austria's membership of the European Economic and Monetary Union. – Up to this point, Mr Haider is to be approved. Unfortunately, in his speech there has not been any material discussion. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We will see that in the election campaign!]] Mr Haider was not in the committee either, so he could, as it were, just give a partisan speech here unimpeded by all the material information. We take note of this, but this is not actually the style that is appropriate here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this novel to the National Bank Act is one of the most important regulatory steps of this legislative period. It is about the integration of the Austrian National Bank into the European system of central banks and hence the transfer of competences of monetary and monetary policy at European level. This is a process, as we often see it in European integration. Formally, we lose skills, but instead we gain additional scope for action and additional economic policy design possibilities. We are already in the system of hard currency policy – a system that has proved to be successful, even if this has sometimes been disputed by the FPÖ – only to say that this system is asymmetric and the schilling must follow the course movements of the German Bundesbank. It is therefore important to establish a symmetrical relationship at the monetary policy level with European monetary union, i.e. on the basis of the equal participation of all Member States. Austria will now be represented by the Governor of the Austrian National Bank in this decision-making body of the European System of Central Banks. This is also the central point – and this could not have been recorded from the previous speech – of the new rules on this issue, namely the creation of new decision-making structures within the framework of the Austrian National Bank and in the participation of the European system of central banks. The principle is the principle of independence of the central banks, and this is completely undisputed in the European context. However, at the same time: Of course, note banks do not operate in empty space. And it is also in the interest of the central banks themselves to keep contact with real economic development. Therefore, for example, we will... [[Abg. May. Stadler: colleague! Now you're going to be a director or not? We just want to know if you're going to be a director!]] I know you have no interest in technical questions. You don't have to listen either. In any case, I am talking about technical questions and I do not let you force me to speak about what I am talking about here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned about the relationship between the central bank on the one hand and the real economic sectors on the other. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When will you become a director?]] One important point – you have never been there before, therefore you cannot estimate it – is the relationship between the central bank and the financial committee. We have this connection... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: When will you become director at the National Bank?]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'm talking about technical matters. If you are not interested in technical matters, you can take care of other things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: When will your order be?]] But you've never been there. As you do not recognize yourself in monetary policy, you have never been involved in one of these discussions between the Financial Committee and the Executive Board of the Austrian National Bank. These were very fruitful debates. We will now institutionalize it in this law. I think it is reasonable if there are joint debates with a view to economic cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're going to be Director! You apply!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The second point I am concerned with concerns the relationship between the Executive Board and the General Council. Look, Mr Haider, this is another point where it might have been quite good if you had informed yourself here before your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We are already very well informed!]] They have complained that the General Council will not be issued. Mr Haider! The Executive Board is, of course, being tendered. The General Council is a Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What will you earn there?]] A Supervisory Board will never be issued. So I think at least this primitive knowledge should be expected from a speaker who speaks here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Director! What will you earn there?]] I think Mr Haider, at least you should inform yourself about this. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points of content. [[Further calls by Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You can shout as long as you want, I will at least speak on matters of subject matter and thus be kind to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stay with the qualification!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about organizational questions. Although it is certainly legitimate in my opinion that this discussion should include organisational and human aspects, I do not believe that there should be any question of content. I'll talk to you later. I fully agree with the honourable Member, Peter, who, I hope, has referred to the Committee: The Austrian National Bank has done excellent economic policy work, but it must be required that this excellent performance be provided at the lowest possible cost. – I think that was about your position, and I would like to fully agree with that position. It is certainly true that, like the Austrian National Bank, large institutions are always faced with the need to critically review their organisation. However, I think it is fair to say that the Oesterreichische National Bank has already begun a critical research into its personnel structure and organisation in recent years, with significant progress being made. Following the adoption of this law, further steps will be taken, and this is not unproblematic in a number of cases – and they have also become public. It must be said quite openly that this is the problem of intervention in existing private contracts. This is always a very delicate question, and I therefore hope that we will find a common solution in this regard in good time. One point that belongs to the Curious – perhaps now my colleague, Haider, could give me his inclined attention – is where you refer to § 22 para. 4 speakers – hearing [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're talking about the references! Now it's gonna be interesting! What will you earn, Professor?]] It's all right! – according to which professors of law and state sciences may be members of the General Council. Mr Haider has now concluded from it that this is a regulation that has been tailored to me. – It is very kind that you always think of me like this, but I must modestly point out the following: [[Abg. May. Stadler: What will you earn, Mr. Director?]] This is a regulation – you know it yourself; if you know it yourself, why did you claim it? – which has been in the note bank law for decades and is also internationally common for good reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you had made the effort to read through the law if you had made the effort to compare the old text with the new text in the annex to this law, I think you would not have happened to this blamable error. And I have to say, It is blamable, and it would have been avoided if you had been in committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to mention another point, because I do not speak on my own. You spoke here about Mrs. Gugerell. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What will you earn? – You owe me an answer!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] First of all, she's already in the board of directors, which you obviously missed, because you said they were coming. She's in the board of directors and she's doing excellent work. I would like to make it quite clear that people are being discriminated against only because of family or political interdependence. It's about whether people work properly. And Mrs Gugerell is doing excellent work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, who have not known at all and have now proved your ignorance, certainly do not have the right to judge Mr Gugerell! I would like to have said that very clearly once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Director! Do you know where Schwechat is and where the district of Gänserndorf is?]] Ladies and gentlemen! More important than these small squares are the differences contained in this new law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One point on which I would like to conclude, and which has had a significant discussion at both national and international level, concerns the aims of the Austrian National Bank.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4824	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is fair to ask one speaker to give him attention and then to disturb the other very specifically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is a difference between the calls that are, of course, legitimate and the systematic attempt not to let a speaker speak. Mr Stadler! If someone comes to speak from your group, he can handle all of this. But perhaps there are people in the house who also want to listen to this honourable Member. I really appeal to your fairness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e4857	However, I must say that Mr Stadler is no one who could disturb me. That is why I can continue. What I wanted to talk about was the objective of § 2 para. 2. The crucial point we have been discussing for a long time is what the tasks of the National Bank are. It is absolutely undisputed that the primary task of the central bank and the European system of central banks is to ensure price stability. It is equally clear, however, that measures taken by the central bank naturally also have an impact on other economic policy objectives, especially those relating to employment and economic growth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Director, what about the coin business?]] This is also true of all the central banks, and this also applies to the European system of central banks. This connection is referred to in Section 2(2) of the National Bank Act and reads as follows: "In the context of Community law, in particular Articles 2 and 105 of the EC Treaty, the Austrian National Bank must, by all means at its disposal, work to ensure the objective of price stability. In so far as this is possible without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the economic requirements for economic growth and employment development must be taken into account and the general economic policy in the Community should be supported." We have been discussing this passage for a long time, and I think it is an important point because it shows the differences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr. Director, what about the coin business, the giant fraud? What will you do about it?]] Of course, this initially concerns the priority of price stability, but also the efforts of both the Community, the Austrian Federal Government and each of them to maintain employment security and to push forward the fight against unemployment in Europe. We want both of them for Europe, and we support both objectives. On behalf of my group, I should like to support the German Government in its attempt to use both instruments and both resources in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Talk about coin fraud! What will you earn?]] Mr Stadler! If you want to go to a committee, you are invited to comment on a technical question. - If you're just making noise here, I really don't go into it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! I think you should take a little care of your neighbors, he's probably having trouble. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The envy is something bad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we must assume that we are currently finding particularly favourable conditions in the field of the euro to take account of both the objectives, both the objectives of stability and the objectives of growth. We are currently – and only yesterday have the data been published to the public – an inflation rate, which is only one percent in Austria. One percent inflation rate basically means that if I take into account quality changes, there is no inflation at all. In other words, we have fully achieved the goal of price stability. You have to see that too. This would not have been possible four or five years ago, and this is an essential success which has already been achieved as part of the approach to monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The next time you talk about employment policy and price stability! The apprentices are waiting for it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this basis, it is now quite possible to implement appropriate employment policies. We see now that the forecasts are actually positive. We are expected to achieve real economic growth of 3 percent this year in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In Lower Austria the voters are still waiting for your employment policy, in Wiener Neustadt and Schwechat!]] Mr Stadler! As important as Wiener Neustadt is, I must say that this is the question of European employment development, which benefits Austria as a whole, because Austrian development is not separate from developments in Europe. You should take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, we are now experiencing a good day of economic policy in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For God's sake!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He really wants to be a director!]] A stability-compliant budget has been presented, and we decide here on the regulatory basis for long-term monetary stability in the European framework. In this sense, we have created the conditions for further success of the Oesterreichische National Bank, both in the national and international frameworks. That is why we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5011	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5032	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is my concern to note, first of all, that Austria has pursued a successful monetary policy. We have managed, through joint work and not least through the National Bank, to secure Austria a place in a stable currency area – the binding of the Schilling to the D-Mark took more than 17 years – and also to position Austria as one of the safest and first participating countries of the euro. That is positive, of course the National Bank deserves our compliment. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, three criticism points remain open to this novel, and three criticism points remain essentially even if the work of the National Bank is observed. First of all, this concerns the question of the ownership structure and that of the post-carousel that is playing there – a red one, a black one, a red one, a black one; You can't leave the mouse, you always have to lubricate people with colors before you give them a post – and above all, it's about the question of costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's turn to the owner structure. Historically, the division that the social partners are 50 percent owners of the National Bank may have had their meaning – of course, it happened and this happens after the knitting pattern: a red, a black, a red, a black one; we know that must be so – but these 23 additional owners have actually lost their function beyond the federal government. Hard currency policy, stability policy is now being made by the European Central Bank. Then why do I need to be in a monopoly company – and the Austrian National Bank is a monopoly company – other owners than the state? It is totally unacceptable to argue that, in a monopoly situation, whose essential bases of decision were outsourced to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, the National Bank needs owners other than the State. We Liberals therefore believe – and we will also make an appropriate request to do so – that it is the only structurally truly clearly understandable way to fully take over this monopoly of the Austrian National Bank and, of course, to extract and privatize the other economic activities of the National Bank at the same time, since they are in fact not connected with the central task of the central bank. Of course, the deposition of the 23 owners who do not represent the Federation – whether the Raiffeisenbanken or the Trade Union Confederation – can take place via the nominal plus the cash value of the fixed dividends of 10 percent. This is a problem of this institution that the federal government as a state-owned owner has special interests and that the other 50 percent of the owners are legally limited, regardless of whether the national bank is good or bad in the profit situation, with 10 percent dividends. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As meaningful as this vertical diversification may have been in the sense of a policy outside the euro, I have to say clearly today, under changed conditions: If the National Bank has a further function – and it has such a function in the implementation of European monetary policy in Austria – it should focus on that part that is really its task. The other parts are not to be nationalized, but to be exposed to competition. The second criticism of this novel and thus also of the entire system of the Austrian National Bank concerns the question of the occupation of the functions. In the EC Treaty of Amsterdam, you can read literally in Chapter 2: In the event of the exercise of the powers, responsibilities and duties conferred upon them by this Treaty and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, the European Central Bank or a national central bank or a member of its decision-making bodies may not seek or receive instructions from institutions or bodies of the Communities, governments of the Member States or other bodies. – This is the will of the European Union. What you made of it in your novel is not complete, but almost the opposite. They go as far as to standardize in § 20 that the General Council has to consult the Executive Board on matters relating to management and monetary policy. That's almost on the border in the formulation. That means that the Executive Board must collect its instructions from the General Council, and that in the sense of a complete... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] It's not an instruction there, Professor Novotny, that's right. Your post-carousel, however, your occupation practice goes in the direction that the governor, who is to act independently in the European Central Bank body, is ultimately involved in the instructions of this coalition government and the red and black post-carousel. I think that this is a wide-ranging extension of what is right and possible, and regret that you have gone this way. However, in this novel, they do not solve themselves otherwise from your influences in the National Bank. If you already want to have these influences, you have the courage to take the National Bank to 100 percent as a monopolist – I stress that once again – in state ownership and to separate and privatise all daughters. These are then to prove themselves in the area of free competition, and the central bank as a monopoly is in state hands. This brings us to the third criticism, at the expense. I've already been allowed to quote it: I think the National Bank is a truly well-led company. There were good achievements, not a question at all, but no one, ladies and gentlemen, asked what this cost. As an Austrian Parliament, however, we have not only the duty, but also the task of asking what it costs. The surpluses of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, which are undoubtedly directly related to the costs, go mainly to the Minister of Finance or to the other owners of the National Bank, who in my opinion have lost nothing in the future, but who receive 10 percent fixed dividends. This means that there has been a social paradise. I cannot understand that there is no trouble in the face of mandates of the Social Democrats or the Austrian People's Party, when they recall that the highest pension, which is available after the ASVG in Austria, is for a woman or a man who has earned 48 000 S grosso – and that is not even 10 percent of the unemployed in Austria – 405,000 S per year – who has paid his pension for 40 years can only receive a maximum pension of 405,000 S per year! – while a Social Democratic, who was a revision official in the National Bank, receives a million and a black person, who was a board member, receives 1.1 million schilling. Who? Ladies and gentlemen, has this decided? Who is responsible for this? That didn't come by itself. There must have been mandates who have decided to do so. If you already have Have your post-carousel of red and black running, then also bear the responsibility for these shameless pension contracts! In your sphere of influence, in your sphere of power and by your officials, this has been decided! And you will have to bear it for 50 years, because there are individual contracts that will continue to apply for 50 years until the last widow who still benefits from these pension contracts has died. Take a stand for the National Council’s mouth and thus for the Austrian population and confess: We have decided this nonsense and these privileges! But don't clean yourself up by saying: There's nothing you can do, these are individual contracts, these are the sins of the past! – These are the sins of your policy, which we will have to carry on for another 50 years. I just think that's an outrageous thing. This is a classic case, as privileges arise where there is no competition. We have a very similar situation in pension insurance, in social security, in the e-economics, not to forget the cooperative company. Wherever there is no competition, the people who have worked there have created a sort of social-democratic paradise with the decisions of the mandates of the Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party. But then you should also have the courage and take responsibility for it, because the responsibility is ultimately yours. The following is now putting the whole matter on the crown in a way: ==References====External links== On 1 May 1997, the National Bank decided unanimously to adopt a resolution stating that it had the privilege stage at least from 1 January 1997 onwards. ==References====External links== What the National Bank has told us about this is annoyed, yes embarrassing, namely, that they are still fast before the 1. On 1 May 1998, he took up further staff in this Privilegienstadel and also argued and defended this personnel policy. I think it's outrageous. We have therefore prepared the following supplementary request, which I am entitled to submit: Additional application of the Deputies Mag Helmut Peter and partners concerning the Government's draft law on the amendment of the National Bank Act 1984, the Scheidemünzen Act, the Schilling Act, the Foreign Exchange Act and the Capital Market Act, the repeal of the transitional right on the occasion of a novel to the National Bank Act 1955, the Federal Law of the 12th century. January 1923 on the transfer of the Austrian-Hungarian Bank's transactions, Austrian management, to the Austrian National Bank, the Federal Act of 18 January 1973. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 74/1959, and the Federal Law on Contributions by the Republic of Austria to International Financial Institutions, BGBl. No. 171/1991 (1080 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee's report (1090 of the Supplements), introduced in the course of the debate in 112. National Council meeting The National Council wants to decide: "In Article I, the following points 37a and 37b are inserted after point 37: 37a. In § 38 para. 2 first sentence is replaced by the word ‘and the pension’; 37b. Section 38 para. 3 not applicable.' This supplementary request does not want more and no less than the National Bank's General Council's pension payments and the staff of the National Bank, as all other employees of Austria, as the political culture would ultimately require, would be subordinated to the ASVG. I have no confidence in this institution that it will adapt itself accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to vote in favour of this reform, because I believe that the National Bank is an important instrument of Austrian monetary policy. Under the conditions you have created, this is not possible. They have failed to create in this novel a really slim, competitive new instrument note bank. You have failed to add a monopolist to where he belongs, namely to public property, because only there can you really control it. And you have also failed to find the right way with the guaranteed independence of the persons acting. Unfortunately, you have missed the objective of this government template, so we will reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5180	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter has just as well as the amendment tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5204	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by making a few comments on the comments made by my previous speaker. I share his view that it is the high merit of the central bank and the central bank to have successfully guaranteed the course of a hard schilling and a stable currency over the last few years. This is the most important task of a central bank, and in this respect there is also broad confidence in the population. In fact, we should expressly acknowledge this confidence of the population and the fact that the central bank has for decades provided a stable currency in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I also agree with Mr Peter that, like any company today, the central bank can only be successful through tight cost management. No question! The central bank is also obliged to do so. Like every entrepreneur and business, it is highly required to deal with the problems over the cost side. I agree with you, Mr Peter, but this is by no means a specific feature of the central bank, but it is these considerations which each company must make: Where can I save costs? Where can I become more efficient? Where can I streamline the organization? These questions have to ask profit-oriented businesses as well as non-profit organisations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I would like to admit that we too are facing this challenge in the Chamber of Commerce. Like every company, we also need to constantly check whether the organisational structures are timely and whether there is no savings on the cost side. A very natural and also very important task, not a question, but certainly no special feature of the central bank. Today, every company faces this task. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr Peter! I know that as a successful entrepreneur you face the same challenge every day, but you have no monopoly, there are differences, and you have no such contracts as they have been made here. No question at all. But again: Today, it is natural to have a tight cost management, and I am convinced that the current central bank management will also be able to meet this challenge successfully under the future governor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say that with today's decision-making of this amendment to the note-bank law, we are putting the final point in order to ensure that Austria fulfils all the conditions for participation in economic and monetary union. It could almost be said that it is a historic moment when we decide today on this package of laws, because, regardless of the Maastricht criteria, the formal criterion applies, in accordance with Article 108 of the EC Treaty, by the date of the entry into force of the European System of Central Banks, national legislation, including the central bank statutes, must be adapted to the EC Treaty and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. This decision sets the last building to enable Austria to participate in the huge building of economic and monetary union. If today, at 11 a.m., in 10 minutes, the deadline for the European Monetary Institute's convergence report ends, then the EMI, the European Monetary Institute, will also make it clear to the public, i.e. officially, that Austria fulfils all the conditions for economic and monetary union. In fact, a historic moment, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the in-depth discussion that we are discussing and in which we want to deal not only with the surface with certain elements such as privileges, pro-porz and the like, we should note that the European Economic and Monetary Union, the euro, the common European currency, is not primarily – which is often not seen – a monetary or financial policy issue, but is actually the central political issue for the future of Europe. In the 1950s, wise people, such as Jacques Rueff, who was the economic adviser to General de Gaulle, had already made the famous statement that there would once be a united Europe as a monetary union or not at all. What does that mean? – It means that the EU's peace initiative from the beginning can only be permanently secured if it has a secure economic foundation, a foundation in the form of the internal market. It is quite clear that a single market would remain only a fragment if this single market did not also correspond to a common European currency. This means ensuring Europe's long-term peace idea requires both an economic foundation and a system of social security. Finally, this is only ensured by a single currency, only by a pan-European approach to the creation of a single currency. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the political dimension, the political function of the euro, and not a financial or technical question. But let me also say that economic policy with the euro, with the economic and monetary union of Europe, is the largest economic area in the world. If we are talking so much about job security and employment policy in the last few weeks and months, we must be clear that the economic location of Europe between the strong dollar on the one hand and the yen on the other hand needs its own strong currency. And today, with the adoption of this law, we are creating the formal requirement for Austria to be able to participate in this large building of a common European currency, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should also like to add a few words on my own, in relation to my own party, the Austrian People's Party. We took the risk of ending the government coalition after a year of government in 1995 and facing new elections. We have known that this is a high risk that the electorate may not understand it if, one year after a coalition pact, the decision is taken on new elections. We have done this out of state-political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Today we see that there is no budgetary consolidation without the People's Party and without the new elections at that time. Without fiscal consolidation, there would be no euro and no contribution from Austria to this European peace initiative without a euro. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know me long enough: I am not primarily one who is Party-political, because I always try to see politics as a means of shaping the future. But at this moment we should really maintain the historical merit of the People's Party, both with regard to European monetary union and with a view to a single stable currency in Europe and peacekeeping on this continent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Leave Let me say one thing very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: With regard to all the overriding importance, the political dimension and the peace dimension of economic and monetary union, there is no question that even for the economic location of Austria, this single currency is of great importance. Let us not forget that in recent years tens of thousands of jobs have been destroyed because European competitors have devalued their currencies overnight in order to become more competitive. This instrument of competitive currency depreciation is eliminated by a common currency: a huge progress in the interests of job security, in the interests of our export economy, in the interests of the people of our country, ladies and gentlemen! This is the economic and employment dimension of this single currency. I am therefore honestly convinced that today we are adopting a package of laws which, in view of the fact that it is not really appropriate to fall into a small day hack, but rather where it is appropriate to present the far-reaching dimension of today's decision-making. I am also pleased – and this shows conversation with our citizens as well as polls of opinion research – that the common European currency, the euro, is being borne by an ever-increasing confidence of the population. If the euro is introduced as a means of payment in Austria, I am convinced that a large majority of the population, contrary to all the demagogy of certain opposition parties, will have the same confidence in the euro as it has done to schilling for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5330	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5352	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the National Banking Act Novelle is simply the production of EU conformity in the course of the introduction of the European Central Bank. Just, Dr. Muted: I do not like the fact that a project such as the European Monetary Union is linked to war and peace in Europe. I don't think you should be overcrowded with such things. And the connection with the policy of the year 1995 has remained a little dark to me. Today, we are not debating the changeover as such, nor the establishment of a single currency area, but one of the necessary conditions. This is also about technical and political matters that concern only Austria and not war and peace at all. From the point of view of the opposition is one of the failures that exists with this novel, of course, that no bar is still imposed on the proportion in the Austrian National Bank. It knows – I don't want to say every child – everyone who deals with matter a little bit, that the Austrian National Bank is, of course, one of the last strongholds of the political protocol between SPÖ and ÖVP. And on the other hand, there is no provision. There are even one or two minor embarrassments in the law in this context. A symptom – Mr Haider and Mr Peter have already pointed out – for the whole, only the unchanged composition of the General Council in the form of the social partners, which has already been criticised by the European Monetary Institute. I'll be right back. Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Edlinger, so that there is no misunderstanding: I do not hold any pleas against the social partners here. I have always been a friend of this particular Austrian model of conflict resolution, when it is used where it belongs, in the context of collective agreements and, above all, in the negotiation of wages and working conditions, in the negotiation of contracts which are then subject to market control. The past has shown, especially in Austria, that if the social partners are left to themselves, for example in certain sectors of the food industry, only one thing happens: At the economic level, a cartel is closed at the expense of third parties, and at the personal policy level, a kind of cartel is also closed at the expense of third parties, in the form of the proportion. This has been shown everywhere, and this has nothing to do with the conflict resolution model you, Mr Minister, have been addressing in your speech today. The National Bank is something that the English would call a "closed shop". It is a closed shop, a closed institution, to which non-party members of SPÖ and ÖVP simply have no access. It is what Mr Novotny has already described today, I believe, in a little coloration. I personally highly value Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell. - But that's not the subject. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Yeah, okay, but that's not my topic. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That was the theme of the Haider!]] My topic is that no members of SPÖ or ÖVP can make a career in the National Bank. That's the real scandal! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Peter and Dr. Krüger.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] The problem of the proportion was never – not even in the VOEST or in the nationalized industry and so on – that every single manager would have been a fool. That was not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You have to say that clearly! That must therefore be clarified!]] Yeah, okay, but that was my opinion now. I do not debate what Mr Haider has said, but what I have to say about my special accusation, and this is different. I am not yet sure whether the current provisions in Sections 20 and 21 will comply with whether they are truly EMI-compliant or ECB-compliant. After all, the deliberations on monetary matters remain maintained by the members of the General Council, or the General Council has to make the refund of three proposals for the Executive Board. The draft law says "non-binding", but I look at it. If the Federal Government "overpasses" the proportional proposal of the General Council for the first time, I will say: It's not binding! Before, I'd rather go around a bottle Wine with you bets that this proposal will be binding. There is also a curious point to be made in this regard, which I do not wish to hold back from you, and Mr Haider, despite his meticulous research and the reports from the Financial Committee, in which some of these points had already been discussed, has been overlooked. Although this is just a respite, it is still striking the personal arrangements between SPÖ and ÖVP, which go so far that they have even found their way into these new laws, which have nothing to do in themselves other than the National Bank to make ECB-compliant. The current Director-General will in future be called "Governor" - that is the new language regime in the future euro area - and will be a member of the Council of the European Central Bank. And thus the future governor will be a more important person, more important than that of the current president of the OeNB. The current Director-General is called Wala and will be credited to my knowledge of the SPÖ. He would therefore be governor, except as long as the transitional provisions apply. This would be a normal process, as it probably took place in any other EU country. – But it must not be. It must not, therefore, be so that Mr Wala becomes governor because this position has obviously already been promised to Mr Liebscher. Therefore, in this draft law, there is the transitional provision of § 87 Z 3, which states that, apart from that, the role of the governor of Mr Liebscher is to be exercised and the new appointment of the governor by no later than 15. ==References== ==References== The layman asks himself: Why with 1. September? If the Governor does not have 15 at the latest. ==References====External links== ==References== August? – No, the appointment must be with 1. September, and this has a very simple reason: Director-General Wala goes with 1. September in Pension. – Of course, this last sentence is not in the draft law. I find this whole thing quite embarrassing. The second major criticism is the lack of transparency and the fact that I would call'missing intelligent explanatory duties'. Although progress has been made, Mr Novotny has already pointed out that § 32 provides that the Executive Board will have to report to the Financial Committee twice a year. – Your choice of words, Ewald, was a little different. You said: There will be a debate in the Financial Committee. – It would have been better for me to be in § 32 "debate" because this term suggests talking to one another. However, the draft law states "obligatory to report". However, if the ladies and gentlemen of the National Bank are not willing, they will report without wanting to discuss it. We Greens will try not to let that happen. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I will always support you!]] In other respects, however, the central bank is granted rights without having to fulfil its obligations. In § 44 of the new law, the central bank is granted various rights, such as the collection of information, the collection of data, and so on. But this is not simply done on a voluntary basis, but if the person concerned does not comply with these requests, then there will also be a criminal threat according to § 82. There is therefore a need for information from the citizen, but no symmetrical obligation of the National Bank to state reasons. There is no symmetrical obligation to publish its results, a kind of evidence of how it has come to its decisions. This is not provided for in the law. By the way, this is not so much my invention, but it has also been mentioned by the Central Statistical Office in its criticism. I quote: The proposed provisions are lacking – several points are cited, and the final point is this – an objective requirement for publication of the results and a detailed presentation of the concepts and methods used. – So far as the criticism of the Statistical Central Office. – This maladministration has not been changed in the novelle either. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ewald! This asymmetry between rights to identify data, and obligations to report in a way that is justified by what has been done with these data, is not only an academic question or a circumstance that disturbs the statistical central office, but I believe that in the ECB, in the European Central Bank, the small nations will have a problem of hearing. Because it is something else, whether the Austrian representative speaks or the German or the French. That is why it will be very important for these representatives in the ECB to have, in the background, an institution which has a certain reputation, namely, at the scientific and analytical level, or as always to call it, removed from the political issues. And in this relationship, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank – now independent of its merits in the field of hard currency policy et cetera, which has already been mentioned – has not yet acquired a reputation or – let me express it weakerly – has not acquired the laurels I would expect from it. I just remember, for example, about six months ago a study was written by some of the National Bank's staff, I think structural budget deficits in Austria and Europe. But the National Bank has done everything to suppress this study, which is completely absurd, because it was a study of its employees and therefore it does not need the official placette of the National Bank at all. However, it took weeks for the National Bank to find out that it had to carry out this study, because its content may not have been quite politically opportune. I am very excited whether the next experiment in this relationship, namely the study "Structural Budget Deficits and Sustainability of Fiscal Positions in the European Union" from February of this year – also written by three employees of the National Bank – will be published in the OeNB series or not. In this context too, the proportion is of certain importance, because an institution that has the reputation that only "red" or "black" career can make in it will in many cases not attract highly intelligent people at all. We will see how this development will continue over the next two years, but that is the status quo. I am not going to repeat some of the other criticisms raised in the Committee on Budgets. In essence, Mr Peter made appropriate comments. We Greens will therefore agree with the two requests he has made. Finally, one point because it is of more general legal interest, namely the provisions in § 23 and § 33: The members of the General Council or the Executive Board may be called up if they – I quote – have committed "a serious offense" – citations. I think that's really not an Austrian legislature. What kind of cuckoo is a "serious mistake"? Is that a new criminal offence? - I don't know. A serious mistake that later leads to an appointment could be, for example, the observance of the proportion. But that's probably not meant. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5451	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5476	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to point out to Mr Van der Bellen that the excellent qualifications of employees of the National Bank cannot be discussed, even if they are a member of a political party. [[Complementary of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] I am very glad that there are members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP who have this qualification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But others may too!]] Others too. The introduction of the euro, which will take place in eight months, will also result in a redefinition of its tasks for the Austrian National Bank. We need to be prepared, we need decision-making structures in order to be able to actively participate in European central bank policy. The change from the guardian of domestic monetary policy to a real player in the ECB's system therefore calls for the countervailing of the National Bank Act. This has already been repeated. From the vantage point of European monetary policy, the Austrian National Bank now enters the centre of the European Central Bank system. This is about competences that must be delegated to the ECB, but in terms of content it is also about more participation and more participation; from the mere understanding of German monetary market policy, the national central bank becomes the active designer and co-designer of the European Monetary System. In its role, the National Bank is primarily responsible for ensuring a stable euro and price stability. This is important; that is the first – I even want to say: High – task of a bank of notes. I am very glad that the Austrian draft law is based on the practice of raising price stability to an idol, and the inclusion of employment development in the target catalogue in many Member States. I personally would have liked to see a stronger emphasis on job security, because the euro as a united force in an increasingly merging Europe can only meet the expectations it has placed on if it is accepted by the population. And this acceptance will depend primarily on price stability, but also – and not least – on developments in the labour market. The novelle to be decided today is a solid basis for the introduction of the euro in Austria. The National Bank will be secured in a sustainable manner, and at the same time equipped with the impact that our central bank will need for a leading role in the ECB system. I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5546	The last amendment tabled by Mrs Huber is, in accordance with business rules, supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5573	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of the liberals claiming that there were no excellent employees in the National Bank. Of course, there are excellent employees in the sheet. But why do these excellent employees always have to be members of the two government parties, red and black? And no one else should be excellent?- Oh, my God! – This is the criticism in this matter! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Professor Novotny! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Director Nowotny! 3 million!]] It is true that the passus concerning university professor was already included in the previous note bank law. What Is Preventing But you're trying to remove this passus? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's a nonsense!]] What prevents you from doing so? – If you had deleted this pass, there would be no problem at all, there would be no debate at all. However, there is a constant debate, and Mr Novotny is in the National Bank at least once a month to see him become the director there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! 2.8 million years!]] If you had deleted the passus, the case would have been done. But it's about the following: The central bank loses all its monetary policy instruments. There is no discount policy, no Lombard policy and so on. But one point was retained with this amendment to the National Bank Act, namely that the General Council was maintained at the same level and in the form that seven members of the Red and seven of the Black were. In fact, this innovation is purely designed to strengthen the post office in the central bank and not to address the future monetary policy measures of the European Monetary Institute. § 4 states: Extension of legal transactions. – Because the central bank no longer has monetary and monetary competence, we are now going into this area. A certain danger is associated with the extension of legal transactions, Minister of Finance: It does not guarantee you any of the legal transactions in which the central bank will take part in the future, the extent to which there will be loss allocations to the central bank and the reduction in profits, which are of course interesting to you as Minister of Finance. Let's just take the small example of the "Austria coin": The "Austria coin" produces coins, and in the last annual report it has transferred to the Austrian National Bank to the nominal: sold by 335 million Schilling. The cost of embossing was exactly 10 percent, 35 million. 300 million schillings are, as it were, a reduction in profits for the Austrian National Bank, with you, Mr Finanzminister, receiving a lower distribution of profits. Why do you have to do this? – Because the "Austria coin", if this surplus yield or extraordinary yield had not been achieved in the order of 300 million, would have had a zero result with a turnover of 4.9 billion schilling. This amount of 300 million Schilling, which it has achieved as a positive business result, is due only to the fact that the Austrian National Bank has transferred 300 million Schilling more to the Austrian "Münze Österreich" than would have been necessary. – This is just a small example. If you are now participating in other companies that do not have a zero result, but rather a negative result – this can happen depending on which companies you participate in – then you will no longer have an influence, and your profit reduction will naturally occur. Another point that we have also criticized is § 69, which concerns pension reserves. This section 69 states that the allocation of up to 10 percent of the profits of the Austrian National Bank can be given to this pension reserve, unless the coverage is already available. – The cover is available. The passus we miss is the following: What happens in case of cover? – In the case of cover, these reserves shall be dissolved and, of course, allocated to profits, or they shall be used for a reasonable tax reform for all Austrians. That is our criticism: that this passus is not included! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a total of 104 billion schillings, which are not foreign reserves. These 104 billion schillings are put together: general reserve funds 19.5 billion, free reserves 28 billion, reserves from foreign exchange price differences 36.2 billion – we will no longer need them, because it is basically only an assessment of the Austrian National Bank, which is needed here to make it available to reserves – other reserves 7.3 billion, pension reserves 23.5 billion; totals 114.6 billion schilling. Mr Finanzminister! I have a feeling – and the letter from the Federal Council of Konečny will again be up-to-date – that one is not prepared to disband these silent reserves in the Austrian National Bank or to make use of profits or tax reform, but to increase the base capital of 150 million schilling with the help of these reserves, that the shareholders have to pay nothing and, of course, get a dividend that is accordingly higher. Because now these only receive a dividend of 10 percent of the capital stock, which is 150 million. And if you increase the basic capital with these silent reserves, then of course the shareholders – and the shareholder structure is a unique – get a much higher dividend. And I believe that this should also be the reason why one is not prepared in any way to resolve these reserves and lead to profit or use for a tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Rather, these reserves are left in the sheet so that the shareholders get a higher dividend. And if you are the shareholders in the note bank, you have to remember again and again: the RZB, the Chamber of Commerce, the Trade Union Confederation, the PSK Participation Administration, Bank Austria-Industrie-Holding, Bank Austria, Vienna City, Industrial Association and so on. These, of course, have a burning interest in increasing the basic capital and thus increasing dividend distribution. You could have changed this ownership structure as part of this revision of the National Bank Act. They would have had the opportunity to change this ownership structure, as has already been proposed by the liberals, namely that the Austrian National Bank is purely in public hands. Consideration can be given to the structure of participation and to the proportion to which the countries are to be involved. But They have put this solution in favour of this so-called para-political area, which has only one interest in participating in the central bank, at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers. They could have created a clear ownership structure, and that would have been the whole debate from the table. So you have to make it happen again and again that you are told that you have decided on a novel that does not do business policy anything that only secures red and black when it comes to the red and black posts, and the liberals will certainly not go along with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5661	Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5690	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, listened very attentively to the previous speakers. If, on the part of the Liberal Party, the view is that this novelle should be withdrawn as soon as possible and disappear into the sinking process, it should be remembered what such a demand would be. This meant nothing more than that the very important date to be observed by Austria in order to meet all the criteria of monetary union would be missed by Austria. That is to say, we have the last opportunity, with the presentation of these new laws, to comply with this so important formal criterion. I think we have fulfilled all the conditions for Austria's accession to the monetary union through the discussion in the Committee on Finance, through today's discussion and the decision-making process, and I am proud of them both. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, 24 minutes ago, at 11 a.m., that study was released, which will be presented by the European Monetary Institute in a few minutes, I think, at a press conference. And in this study, which is entitled "Convergence Report" – it is a report required by Article 109j of the Treaty establishing the European Community – page 161 reads as follows – I quote: "The draft law sought an opinion from the European Monetary Institute, which was also taken into account in the adaptations. Assuming that the draft law was in accordance with the state of the art. The National Bank Act will comply with the requirements of the Treaty and with the Statute for Stage 3 on March 1998 and that it will enter into force in good time.' What has been discussed in the Committee on Finance is that we are still waiting for the opinion of the European Monetary Institute to be kept in mind that our ideas, our formulations, are actually in line with these requirements, have been confirmed and fulfilled by this Convergence Report and by this opinion of the European Monetary Institute. This means that our law is fully in line with the requirements of the European Monetary Institute. This has to be held once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address all the points of criticism, but I would like to discuss today some aspects of the importance of this so important institution of the National Bank in the future European framework. I believe that for all those who are dealing with monetary and monetary policy, financial policy in Austria, the Austrian National Bank has undoubtedly done an extremely good job in recent decades, the central task it has been attributed to it, namely, monetary policy. I believe that it is necessary to have this central statement on the occasion of this debate in all the criticism that has been made here or there. This is something you can be proud of – whoever has done this task and contributed to this performance. For more than two decades, despite all changing economic conditions, the inner and external value of the schilling has been stable. It is also important for each such institution – and in particular for the National Bank as the institution responsible for monetary policy – that there is a high level of reputation, a high degree of credibility. A recent survey shows that despite all discussions, the Oesterreichische National Bank enjoys high reputation and high credibility. According to this survey, 61 percent of the population believe that the National Bank is the institution most considered to be trustworthy. This means that in Austria, the OeNB is the second institution according to the police, which adds high trustworthiness and credibility. I believe that we should no doubt quote such a result of an investigation today if this Austrian National Bank is at the heart of today's debate. As far as independence is concerned, we can be proud of the previous performance of the Austrian National Bank in the European – even in the international – comparison. An independent index, which includes not only the European banks, but also the US, Canada and Australia, states that the Austrian National Bank has the highest independence compared to all other national banks over the period of the last 40 years, at 65 percent. This is undoubtedly proof that the Oesterreichische National Bank has fulfilled what we always wanted, namely in the view of international assessment. We are proud of this result. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, for example, I am told by my previous speaker Trattner – we can be of the common opinion in some discussions about many things, but in this case I am not – that we are giving up any design possibilities for Austria in the future monetary policy, then I would like to answer him as follows: We will be grateful to God for the future governor of this Austrian National Bank to have its seat and vote in the Council of the European Central Bank and, of course, to all the others represented in this Council, to influence future monetary policy in Europe. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is one of 15!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This step does not lead to a task of design possibilities, but will undoubtedly achieve equal rights for Austria. That is also to be held. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So far, we have almost understood what has been done in Germany. In the future, we can agree on equal rights. That's the essential difference! This is to be held today! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why did we need the proportion? Then why did we need the effort?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That's honesty. This is what the law provides for both in Austria and at European level. I mean, you're not supposed to frustrate certain fairy tales, but you're going to refer to what truth is. And we stand to the truth and the reality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will be represented by the governor in the future. I would also like to address what has been discussed in the Financial Committee – thank God relatively intensively –: It was discussed about the alleged huge bloating of the staff of the Austrian National Bank. We then got the comparison data from other larger countries: There are just over 1,000 employees in the Austrian National Bank. The Federal Republic of Germany employs around 15,000 people in this area. But I am sure that the Federal Republic of Germany does not have 15 times more inhabitants than Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] In France, there are 18,000 employees in this sector. Also France does not have an 18-fold higher population than Austria. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] One can criticise making proposals for improvement, but Austria and the Austrian institutions are not supposed to be discredited and to be worse than they are in international competition. You're supposed to stress that too! I mean, that's important, too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this law to be adopted today, we are fulfilling what is required of us in terms of our membership of the European Monetary Union. I have just quoted what the European Monetary Institute has stated in this Convergence Report, namely that we fully meet the needs of the formulations and provisions contained in this legislative initiative. There is no doubt that we can be proud of the performance of the Austrian National Bank, and we hope that in the future, in the context of the equal participation of the Austrian National Bank in future European monetary policy, the same stability will be given to our currency as in the past and that the great performance will continue in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5806	Now, Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5828	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I would like to wait with my comments on the ongoing discussion until the end of the EMI report's publishing ban. I believe that this report and the policy we have pursued in recent years, as well as that report published in Brussels in a few minutes by the European Commission, can be seen in a connex. Austria is in line with the legal convergence law now in place and to be decided, and I believe that this is without any self-devotion. It is not only the politicians in the public, but also the citizens of our country, who have succeeded in achieving the convergence criteria, which are necessary in order to be able to participate in the single currency in the first group of EMU countries, through a reasonable but, as I believe, correct structural policy. This also enables us to take advantage of all the opportunities that arise through the common market. In my budget speech, I pointed out that consolidation policy was not always easy, that wise political proposals, but also the participation of the Austrian population, were necessary, that we could play an inclusive and offensive role in this new Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have said that EMU is an essential element in this new Europe and that this OeNB law, which you will adopt today, constitutes the legal conditions in addition to the convergence criteria. I would like to address a point which is otherwise not taken into account in the debate: Of course, the government represented a specific Austrian position in the discussions with the EMI, but also with the Commission. Stability is a very important factor. However, I consider it to be proof of our right policy that, in addition to initial skepticism, especially on the part of the EMI, we have succeeded in implementing the wording in § 2, in which the task of the Oesterreichische National Bank is concerned – not only with formulations, but also with the attitude of politics. It was essential to note that it is a priority task of the National Bank to ensure price stability. As far as this objective is not affected, however, it is also the task of the National Bank to consider economic and employment policy in that country. This is where we have been in discussions, because I think it is the right idea that stability and economic and employment policy should shape this future Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The necessary legal adjustments have been made to represent the Governing Council by the independent Governor of the National Bank. A consultative function was given to the General Council on monetary matters – quite certainly also in order to comply with this attitude that I have quoted. It is, of course, up to the sceptical governor and the other directors to seek advice. There is no obligation to do so, but I believe that this discussion, this dialogue, is also necessary in terms of the formulation of policy. The State Commissioner loses his right of opposition, thereby documenting independence, and twice a year, Governor and Vice-Governor reports to Parliament on monetary matters. I do not know, Mr Dr Van der Bellen, whether the reporting obligation is more binding than a non-binding dialogue that you may wish to make in practice. I cannot imagine, at the best, that it would be in line with the democratic sentiment of the Governor and the Vice-Governor, that they would inform the highly esteemed Members and then go home. I believe that Governor and Deputy Governor are interested in a very fruitful dialogue with the Austrian National Council, as I hope. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the subject that the public is always interested in: the bank reserves. First of all, I would like to say that one should not only look at graphics but also read texts. The reserves shown in the graph of the aforementioned document, which the Oesterreichische Nationalbank gratefully has at the disposal of the deputies, are those that are freely available in the OeNB for the defence of speculative attacks or the coverage of any price losses. No one can guarantee whether, in the intermediate phase, there will still be the attempt of speculative attacks on some currency, which will occur from 1st century onwards. In the common currency, the January 1999 common foreign and security policy will be brought together. I therefore think that a discussion on the availability of reserves without the single currency having been observed for a certain period of time is a risk to monetary policy. I think that we should not discuss here populistly or otherwise in some way, but rather in a reasonable economic policy. [[Abg. May. Trattner: It's about the free reserves!]] The pension reserve does not belong to this list, nor to any reserves necessary for the defence of possible attacks and the consideration of price differences. However, I would also like to return to the text of this paper, because the question has been raised in the room, what will happen to these reserves: The gradual phase-out – on the other side of the picture that has apparently been considered – of the previous OeNB-pension system also results in the withdrawal of the donation of the pension reserve. It has been fully covered since 1995 and does not require any subsidies from the OeNB revenues. Since day-to-day shots have already been made out of this reserve in recent years, this has led to disbursements to the federal government of over 6 billion schillings. – To the extent that the answer to the question of what has been done with these means. [[Abg. [O Muhammad] [O Muhammad] [O Muhammad], [O Muhammad], [O Muhammad], [O Muhammad], [O Muhammad], [O Muhammad]! That's after help!]] I would also like to say: I think it is legitimate at the right time to discuss the question of the no longer necessary reserves. However, we must be careful not to develop indirectly a system which would be equivalent to the introduction of the money press in monetary terms. That's why I'm accused of stopping budget holes, as I've been told: First of all, there are no budget holes, so I don't need anything to stop either. Furthermore, I have never thought of using any reserves of the National Bank in the event that a little hole appears, because the monetary policy would simply be wrong. However, it is equally wrong to propose and also to give the public the impression that amounts which would once, perhaps twice, flow could be financed for example by structural changes in tax policy. I can't. This is a wrong economic policy, which is wrong in budgetary policy, and it is also known to those who say this and hope that the Austrians will not think enough. [[Abg. Böhacker: No!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am not going to address the immeasurable and extremely personal qualification of personalities in a particular speech of today's day for good reasons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5916	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e5937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am directly linked to the statements made by Mr Edlinger. Mr Federal Minister, you said there were no budget holes. I have to contradict this in so far as there is a significant deficit. Although it develops relatively relative to the cheaper – and it is of course not a budget hole – it is apparently a construction feature. [[Abg. Böhacker: A giant hole!]] I agree with you that, although you do not have any unsuspected budget gaps in the budget, the planned budget hole, which is also called deficit, is already in place. It's important to me to say that from this point of view. It is not illegal to have the suspicion that you may occasionally access reserves to improve the deficit situation – I say carefully now. [[Abg. Böhacker: Specialdivided!]] That is why that is something I would like to step back to. I now come to the matter that is central to us here, namely the National Bank Act. I'm not really happy about that. Our group has tabled a request, Mr Peter has tabled an additional proposal which deals with the pension problem there. I would have liked it, Minister of State, if you had addressed this aspect. Because all that They are theoretically correct about the acting persons, about the mechanisms in the General Council, about the Board of Directors, about which governors have said. Theoretically, it is right that organs should behave as you describe it, Minister of State. Summoning success in the past is the one thing we recognize – but the forecast for the future is the second. What the National Bank did last on the pension question can already be called a strong piece. President-in-Office of the Council. — The next item is the report (Doc. The resolution of the National Council is just a resolution to which it is not bound. - I guess he's formally right with that. Apparently, therefore, individual pension contracts with additional employees are now being concluded in the National Bank. For the motion for a resolution does not apply, a law has not yet been adopted in the National Council, and it is therefore, as it were, helpless: the helpless Wala. The law now comes, Minister of State, and there is no provision in the government's proposal for pensions at all. So Wala said he can't do anything because there's no law yet – now the law is coming, and there's nothing again! In other words, Mr Wala will tell us the following day: Now a law has been passed, there is nothing to be said about pensions, so I am left with nothing but to continue as before. A person acting in this way is considered to be the undisputed, praised Director-General of a National Bank. I don't like that because it's objectively wrong. Maybe he'll tell us the next morning: I don't need a law. I can do it myself. - That's what we've been saying all the time. But then the question remains open: Why, then, did he conclude contracts quickly in 25 cases? – He shouldn't have done that anymore. He would have been entitled to initiate early reforms on his own initiative and not to refer to a law that had not yet been adopted. But if he wants the law so much, I ask: Why, then, do we not at least decide in the version of our supplementary request? – In doing so, he is finally deprived of the excuse by simple deletions in the relevant paragraphs. In my opinion, Mr Federal Minister, you would be invited to comment on this aspect once again from the Government Bank. And the government parties would also be invited to: Help your whale by agreeing to our additional request! Perhaps you will make him happy because he can then also appeal to the employees for a law. If he is weak as Director-General, he may need this law so that he can enforce himself with his employees. [[Abg. That's not him!]] A high-level Director-General implements himself with arguments, and a leading weaker needs a law. Apparently, Mr. Wala needs a law. On the next aspect, Mr. Federal Minister, on your comments on the National Bank's business subject – § 2 – and in connection with Sections 20 and 21: My group colleague Helmut Peter has already discussed this, and last but not least, Mr Van der Bellen of the Greens has explained to you in a remarkable analysis what §§20 and 21 mean. I say to you that they mean exactly what Mr Van der Bellen said: a very narrow and short rein, which is not a reins of direct direction, but a reins that triggers the pre-emptive obedience of those concerned. And that's basically the same thing. If the freedom of guidance is to be illustrated by the fact that instructions cannot be granted or sought, you speak of consent requirements, and then that is not a precept. But if you need approval there and there, you can only formulate something that is acceptable. But that's exactly the counterpart to directions. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, you interpret too optimistically, which is too optimistic against the background of the concrete composition of the corporate bodies, since they are specifically so composed that they can clearly be divided politically according to the prime number 2, i.e. according to the proportion. That's why what you're saying is just not right. Another aspect arises when you turn to your own government template and take account of § 9. It describes the shareholders. The shareholders are defined in such a way that practically only the public-hand shareholder can be. For shareholders must be Austrian citizens, legal persons or companies of commercial law based in Austria, there must be no foreign influence, and so on. – That's all right, we sign that. But why not just the Republic of Austria? Why do it? She then seems as if the National Bank in its internal structure would indeed be a private economic construction – Mr Helmut Peter has already done so – if you ultimately assign quite precise tasks in relation to a monopoly? We agree with this assignment. We believe that maintaining price stability is an important task for the National Bank. But it is not the task of a bank, but of a national bank and thus a bank that exists only once in that country. Therefore, it is not a bank in competition and is not a bank in the very sense of the word, it is a national bank. You have underlined this once again, Mr. Federal Minister, by your comments on the additional wording in § 2 para. 2, in which you say: In so far as this is possible without prejudice to the objective of price stability, national economic requirements in terms of economic growth, employment development and so on should be taken into account. Yes, these are important economic policy objectives! They need a public order. But why do you make this so complicated in the specific case that you use private shareholders between this public order and the institutions? – If you look at those who are allowed to participate in the increase of the capital, you can see four beneficiaries: Two are "by chance" red, two are "by chance" black. The whole thing is a cover-up of the proportion, not to say a outsourcing of the proportion. It is a breakdown of the proportion, with the advantage of the eligible areas, that they can therefore even perceive the proportion regardless of the results of the elections. We believe that the proportion for itself, as it is handled in Austria, is wrong, but it is still somehow comprehensible. But now you place it in your economic and political front-end organizations: in the Chamber of Commerce, in the ÖGB, in the P.S.K. Beteiligungsverwaltung AG and RZB. You have thus created an independent proportion of election results, and that is quite, very bad! I would prefer to say that there is clear transparency, reporting and real control of the public enterprise National Bank, although this is also a risk in this country under the prevailing conditions, and although we know that this can only be used again, but at least with the chance of political correction, also of election results. If you look at § 45 of this government template, you see that there are confidentiality obligations there. That too is quite all right. But these obligations of secrecy correspond exactly to those in the public sphere. However, as you will require a shareholder to be silent, I look at this, just as you will handle it against a shareholder who has been expelled as a shareholder. That's what it says: The obligation to remain silent also takes place after the shareholder has left. How you will behave such a shareholder to silence if he no longer wants to be silent, you have to show it to me! These are the reasons why we have tabled a motion for a resolution with the aim of ensuring that the National Bank is at its core as a public enterprise, of course after all the private economic elements such as Coin Österreich AG, Druckei, Austrocard AG and so on. I would have expected a statement to be made, Mr Federal Minister, if you had already spoken a second time. You can say: This is very bad, public tasks are badly abolished by a public body. – Tell us that if you think so! Or tell us why You prefer to give the impression that you have private shareholders in the National Bank, although it is in fact economic precursors of the parties and therefore not private shareholders, so that you actually choose a construction that is suitable for continuing what has been unholyly started: a mixture of party and private interests with public interests in the form of a legal statute. I therefore believe that our motion for a resolution on the nationalization of the Oesterreichische National Bank in this House must be taken much more seriously than it has been in the debate so far. I ask you, Minister of State: Consider, once again, whether this would not be an approach to making a complete whole out of the very positive elements of this law! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As a final remark, therefore, the Ceterum censeo to pensions remains to me once again, Minister of State: As long as there is a predominance in the National Bank, as it has recently become apparent in an article in the economic magazine "trend" – namely: Laisser-faire, if it is useful to us, and to the public tasks we only call upon ourselves if we have to demand something unpleasant – as long as the forecast is unfavorable, with all recognition for the historical successes. I do not dispute these; I say that again. But the historical successes were not insignificantly determined by the fact that one had decided in time to bring the schilling into the wind shadows of the German Mark. After that, you just drove excellently in the wind shadow, which is not easy either. Wind shadows do not mean negative in this context. One must be careful not to tear it off, one must certainly press on the pedal. But that was the key decision, and I believe it was right. In addition, however, the historical successes are not sufficient reason not to make things any better in the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6019	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6041	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In March 1998, attention will be paid to future history books. Then: That is the day, ladies and gentlemen, which countries will participate in future European monetary union. Also on that day, the Federal Minister for Finance in Austria presented the 1999 budget. As the only country in Europe, we are able to present the forthcoming budget on today. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we de facto decide to participate in this monetary union. With this novel, it will be the same as with the budgets of the past few years. Government forecasts have proved to be correct. The figures and the facts have kept, and the opposition's unacknowledged calls have proved to be wrong. You will also prove to be wrong in this regard! The fact is that the common monetary policy, monetary union ensures employment and jobs and guarantees export stability, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Go, Auer!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Nonsens!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One could say to this law: A country, a voice. ==References====External links== The European Central Bank, headquartered in Frankfurt, will be set up in January 1999. The European Central Bank will be responsible for monetary policy in the European area, and we will decide today, as already stated, the legal conditions for participation in economic and monetary union in accordance with the nature. 108 of the EC Treaty. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No!]] Only those who are involved – that is what you say, Mr colleague of the Free Trade Unions, but always – can agree. You always complain that you are often not present – for this you have to create the conditions for receiving the mandate from the voters; but this has become increasingly smaller, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] There are a few local colleagues who stand for elections, where the result is not considered sufficient if it is 10 or 12 percent. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're a steam looter!]] Political group activity in some communities will be granted to you, ladies and gentlemen, but not decisive activity! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is a fact that, because of this participation, Austria has de facto been given a disproportionately strong voice, a disproportionate weight in relation to the design of European monetary policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] And it is gratifying that in § 2 para. 2 of the new objective of the Austrian National Bank is clearly defined: "In the context of Community law..., the Oesterreichische National Bank has to work with all its means at its disposal to ensure the objective of price stability." – Stable prices are recognised as an important basis for long-term sustainable growth in the EU countries. Economic growth and employment development are referred to as subsidiary objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! Even some opposition politicians – and this has been acknowledged – have stressed positively that the Austrian National Bank has done good, excellent work. That's undisputed. Nevertheless, I also have some wishes. According to the EU standard, our minimum reserve of the National Bank should be adapted to the EU level. We have one - I say so - too high a minimum reserve. It would also be necessary to think, Mr Federal Minister, about the abolition of the credit fee, because otherwise there is no such thing in the EU, and especially in the case of foreign currency loans, the competitiveness of our domestic banks is worsened. Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be said that a common monetary policy within the EU is also important from an agricultural point of view and beneficial to farmers, as it ensures exchange rate stability, so that these fluctuations have an end once and for all! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] I have here a study of Linz University, in which expressly: From the point of view of exchange rate influences, the changes in the international currency structure – Mr Haigermoser, you listen to me for two minutes, even if you can You have already reached a certain age, many learn! – clearly negative effects on the Austrian agricultural sector. It is therefore important that stability is fixed by this unit. Europe will be one by a currency or not at all! – This quote comes from Jacques Rueff, the economic adviser to Charles de Gaulle, has been old for some time. Europe is determined to bring about an ever closer union of peoples in the spirit of its Treaties. Ladies and gentlemen! They still complain of the flop of the Freedom Party in connection with the "Euro" popular desire, for that was not a special masterpiece of the Freedom Party! The voters have also shown it to you during the various elections that have been followed, and he will also show it to colleagues Haigermoser next year in Salzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6176	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After the brilliant statements of Raiffeisen representative Jakob Auerkann one can only be surprised. One is simply flat when one hears how well my colleague Auer argues here. So, sensational, just touching! [[Complementary with the liberals as well as with the detonative applause of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But don't look flat, Mr. Colleague! Me neither!]] [[Further calls.]] That's what I'm saying, Mr. Colleague. We can both try to show ourselves to the public as well. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Around as flat!]] Let me come to the point, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Government is trying to present the novelle to the National Bank Act as a necessary adaptation to the European System of Central Banks. In reality, however, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this clearly, the cementing of the proportional system, the continuation of the privilege economy and the expansion of the protected system at the expense of the free economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the Federal Government had really only been able to adapt in the eye – Mr. Federal Minister, I tell you that in all its clarity – if only the Federal Government had pursued this objective, then some unnecessary ballast contained in the government template would have been removed – you would only have had the will and the courage to do so! But you are a prisoner of your own system, Mr. Federal Minister, and that is why it did not happen. If one had actually had in mind an independent sheet of notes and sought to achieve this objective, Federal Minister, one should have built a new sheet of notes, based on the model of the United States or the United Kingdom, which really fulfils its tasks. But that didn't happen either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Novotny said that the General Council is the Supervisory Board of this new note bank. Mr Novotny! I do not know a single stock company all over Europe, in which the Supervisory Board is permanently sitting next to it and speaking to the Executive Board. This would not be the case throughout Europe! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] But you say that this is so – probably because you yourself have ambitions to take up this post one day following your political activity; that has already been tailor-made today. There is something more that is particularly disturbing to me in this proposal: the sluggish nationalization, the continued influence of various bodies. It's perfectly clear: Today, the central bank has just over 1,000 employees, and due to the loss of tasks, the number of employees has to be reduced – there are also fewer tasks to be dealt with. Instead of creating a reasonable concept, creating reasonable framework conditions so that these employees can quickly find good and qualified tasks, however, you are expanding the protection, the protected workshop Austria. I guarantee you: There will be competition from the Austrian state printing industry through the central bank printing industry, and there will be many areas in which a state area competes with another state area in the future. And it can't be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would also like to make one comment on Mr Stumpfully's comments. He meant: We must free ourselves from this system of competitive devaluations in Europe. – Perfectly right, my colleague. But: The European Monetary System in its current version is not capable of freeing itself from this round-up and the competitive competitive disadvantages of competition that Austria has. To recognize this, you only need to follow closely what has happened in the last fourteen days. The Greek drachma has depreciated by 14 percent. The Greeks said: Once – once! – let us continue to evaluate and then enter the European Monetary System. – And that actually happened. The Irish pound has been upgraded, a re-evaluation has been carried out within the framework of the European Monetary System, which has also been voted on and adopted unanimously. What happened? – The US dollar rose by 2% in one day. These are the consequences! You must see this once in a while and note that this monetary system has really reached its borders and that in this regard only mussed and lied! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The international capital market does not honour such a thing, ladies and gentlemen! Proporz, packing, post-chacher – that's what remains with this central bank law novelle, and that's what many foreign investors say! Mr Federal Minister, at your address: I spoke recently with representatives of a large mixed American-British financial group, and I was told the following stone and clear: We would like to do more in Austria, we would like to be more involved in the Austrian capital market, our role as a lender, but we cannot do it, because once the government makes retroactive laws, and another time it makes a law by which sluggish state interventionism becomes not less, but stronger. Federal Minister! That's what you'll get the bill for. I believe that if such a policy continues, no investors will be brought to Austria. I see a negative future in this area ahead of us. It is up to you to change politics; we are not available for the current policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6300	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Magistrate. Schreiner reported. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6322	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you can't gain the confidence of the liberals in your national bank policy with today's government paper. I'll tell you the reason for that. I bluffed back to 1992. At that time, there was a urgent request from the liberals to your predecessor, to finance minister Lacina, in which we have demonstrated that the Austrian central bank's ownership structure for Europe is very peculiar. We have shown that there are two ownership structures in Europe: either the state, the Republic is the owner – or banks. But a mixed structure from the state on the one hand and from the proportionally divided interest groups on the other does not otherwise know a European country. Federal Minister! We have also demonstrated at that time that there has been a very strange situation of interest, and it continues until today. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember: At that time, there was a participation of the socialist publisher in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank of 4.72 percent. It was said that in 1955 the socialist publishing house was said to have received 7 million schillings from the Socialist Party and had paid them in 1955. – Federal Minister for Finance! To date, the company book of the Handelsgericht Wien contains no deposit evidence about this 7 million schilling. After this urgent request, an argumentation carousel began to rotate. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the socialist publishing house, which fits precisely into this knit pattern: Raiffeisen Central Bank: black, Chamber of Commerce: black, ÖGB: red, bank for work and business: red, Vienna City insurance: red, federal insurance: black. Exactly, the remaining 75 million schillings are divided into red and black. A letter from the Federal Council of Konečny actually promoted what we always suspected. This letter read as follows: These 150 million Schilling basic capital should be increased to a multiple level by the company's own resources. This means that the 7 million Schilling basic capital of the Socialist publishing house – is equal to SPÖ – had experienced a miraculous increase to probably 35 million or 70 million Schilling. That would have been a special dividend. Federal Minister for Finance! We demand a special dividend to the Republic and to the taxpayers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At that time, a special dividend was flown to the socialist publishing house, which had to clean up a party newspaper, the "Worker Zeitung", via the forward group. That was the true background of the whole. Federal Minister for Finance! As long as you stick to these ownership structures at the National Bank Act Novelle, you can't really expect the consent of us Freemans! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What happened in 1992 after this urgent request? – The then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky said: Of course, we will separate ourselves from it, the socialist publishing house will give up these shares! It was then heard by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky that he would create an initiative for young people who are unemployed, i.e. to carry out a youth employment programme. – To this day I haven't heard of it. Even the stay of these 7 million schillings or more – you don't know how much was actually paid – is not clear to this day. However, the current ownership structure shows that a certain bank holds Austria's industry holding 4.26 percent and the Vienna City Table 0.46 percent – that's exactly the percentage previously held by the Socialist Party and the Socialist publishing house. Federal Minister! As long as such states reign, you will not get the consent of us liberals to a National Bank Law Novelle! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You will not get the consent of us liberals either if you continue things in the National Bank that read themselves like the "Who is who" of the Privilegian Stadium: 620 apartments rented to active and pensioners by 17 S per square meter Cold rent – with highest pensions, with highest assets! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a drink money!]] Or: Lunch table: 20 S – this must be promoted with 20 million schillings so that it can be made available to active and pensioners. Or: Saving and advance insurance fund. This is where money is saved, and the pension reserve that has already been referred to today must bear in mind. Or: Holiday quarters subsidized with 15 million schillings. Mr Haigermoser! You will probably not be able to afford this in your business, and many other medium-sized enterprises will not be able to afford to pay their employees this, although, if they receive 20 000 S or 25 000 S gross, they will have a right to it rather than someone who receives a reference in the National Bank of 50 000, 60 000, 70 000 or 80 000 S. Federal Minister! Don't change that! And as long as you don't change that, there won't be the consent of the liberals to a National Bank Act-Novelle!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6379	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report has not been desired. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1080 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 1090 of the Supplements. Deputies Dr. Novotny, Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I Z 78 § 87 Z 3. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Peter and comrades shall submit an additional request containing the inclusion of new points 37a and b in Article I. We shall vote as follows: firstly, on the supplementary proposal referred to, then on the part concerned by the amendment, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We are now voting on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Peter and comrades. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Now we are voting on the amendment tabled by Dr Novotny, Dr. Stupid and comrades. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Your privileges will cost you the majority in Carinthia!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with its title and receipt in 1080 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 1090 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this part, I ask for a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. This part has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading, may declare this by a sign. – This draft law has also been adopted by the majority at third reading. We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Peter and comrades concerning the nationalisation of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1078 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Health and Social Aid Act (1091 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (918 of the Supplements): Federal Act on the Transfer of the Dorotheum to the Property of ÖIAG (1092 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (990 of the Supplements): Agreement between Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on mutual support for their customs administrations and the Additional Protocol and Protocol on the Accession of Greece to the Agreement between the Member States of the European Economic Community on mutual support for their customs administrations and Declaration by the Republic of Austria (1093 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1050 of the Supplements): The Federal Act on the disposal of unmovable federal assets (1094 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1051 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Participation of Austria in the New Credit Agreements (New Arrangements to Borrow, NAB) with the International Monetary Fund (1095 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6466	We now proceed to points 3 to 7 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. None of these points required oral reporting. We are therefore immediately beginning the debate. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Böhacker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6493	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The government template before the debate: The Federal Act to amend the Health and Social Aid Act comes with 1. January 1998 in force. - Well, you'll say. I say: Not good! - Why? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Not enough!]] This novelle already had 1. However, it is only now that this law can be passed on because of the state's fairness. Result: damage to Austrian taxpayers and social insurance companies amounting to 50 million Schilling. What happened? Better said: What didn't happen? – In the course of accession to the EU, Austrian VAT legislation had to be adapted to Community law. One of the most important adjustments was that the whole health and social sector, which was subject to VAT under Austrian law, was no longer taxable under EU law. However, this also meant that no prior tax deduction was possible, with the result that additional costs were incurred. Although the Health and Social Aid Act has remedied this manko, it has been overlooked to formulate the provisions in such a way that they also apply to foreign social security patients. Austria has negotiated a transitional period of two years. These two years have not been used accordingly by the Federal Government, so that we are only able to adopt this law today. This leads to the already known result, namely a damage of 50 million Schilling to the Austrian taxpayers. The Minister for Finance has said in the Committee that the matter was and is very difficult. That's what I'm giving him: She's really difficult. But if you, Mr Finanzminister, think that these 50 million schillings are only peanuts in relation to the total cost, then I must remind you that in times when aid to the disabled is even reduced and where massive burdens are placed on all taxpayers, 50 million schillings are not peanuts! [[Unrest in the hall.]] I must say, however, that the countries and the national financial institutions have not behaved perfectly when they could not agree on who will now bear these additional costs. It was colleague Dr. Rasinger of the ÖVP who had been doing this some time ago...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6528	Excuse me, honourable Member, for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that the noise level immediately before a vote, if the plenary session is full, increases something. I do not understand at all that this noise level after, if the plenary has only a part of the previous presence! Please, honourable Member, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6552	Thank you, Mr President. It's like: Debates which require a little thought are relatively difficult to follow by some. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We always think about everything!]] You always think? – Hopefully also always in the right direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can't always say that about you. But they already show good approaches. Of course! They show good approaches. You have real thoughtful phases, sometimes something very good comes out, but most of your thoughtful breaks have not used you to teach something positive. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer:... we don't talk about it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Rosemarie, stop now!]] Excuse me, Mrs. Colleague? You've read your last speech, and you're disappointed about that? – I can imagine that! I can really imagine that you are massively disappointed by your own speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Even at the Rostrum a cavalier!]] [[Further calls from Deputies Dr. Fekter and Rosemarie Bauer.]] Dear ladies! I mean, matter's too serious for jokes. I could imagine that you, Mrs Bauer, could really use this 50 million schilling for family support, right? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: We can need everything!]] Look! If you had been pressured in time so that this novelle could have been decided earlier, then we might now have 50 million schilling more available for the families. So seen and summarized, ladies and gentlemen: We will give our approval to this novel, for one thing is certain: This law is necessary, even if it is decided too late.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6676	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the transfer of the Dorotheum to the property of the ÖIAG, let me make some comments from the last meeting of the Financial Committee. First of all, I would like to mention a few figures to illustrate the importance of the dorotheum and the structure of the Dorotheum's business. According to the Annual Report 1996, more than 495 700 items of art, antiques, jewels and collectibles in the Dorotheum were found to be new owners. The total turnover was about 1.5 billion Schilling, the annual profit was almost 36 million Schilling and the cash flow was 81 million Schilling. In the 785 auctions, 764.1 million Schilling were implemented, of which 588 million were Schilling alone in the Vienna Auction Centre or almost 77 percent, with the average cost of the contract being about 5 700 S. Turnover in free sales increased to 725 million schilling, making little of the auction turnover. The loan amounted to over 400 million Schilling, the average loan being 3 598 S. In all, in 1996 no fewer than 141 000 redundancies and 122 000 implementations were registered. It is notable that the Dorotheum's pledge credit is mainly used as a short-term liquidity bridge, especially since the majority of the pledged items are rescinded. The Dorotheum's banking business, in turn, is mainly used for the provision of primary funds for the pledge business. Ladies and gentlemen! These figures thus show that the Dorotheum remains an important social task. Especially in the field of deposit loans, a serious, reliable and discreet point of contact is of great material as well as psychological importance for the customer. In addition, over time the Dorotheum has also developed into a culturally important institution. As one of the oldest auction houses in the world, he is given the appropriate international appreciation, not least because art is increasingly seen as an investment object. This is evident, for example, in the rapidly increasing interest in the works of old masters, the most powerful division of the auction area in the Dorotheum. The positive image is supported by exhibitions, special tours, exhibitions in partner auction houses, for example in London or San Francisco, and other cultural events. The Dorotheum managed to gain a special position on the international art market. Some representations in Tokyo, Munich, Brussels and Prague as well as cooperation with other renowned auction houses have supported the business strategy. This position applies not only to holding but also to expanding, because the market is in strong competition, and not always is fought with Glacé gloves. In particular, given the budgetary situation of the public sector, it cannot be expected that the owner, the federal government, can provide significant financial resources for future investments, it is necessary to facilitate access to the capital market to the Dorotheum. However, this must be done with caution and with an eye due to the social and cultural importance described. A sale to the competition – and there are, of course, corresponding desires, both in the auction area, but above all in terms of free sale – can be avoided as far as possible. The transfer of the state's 100% share rights to the ÖIAG in the first step and now provided for in this law is therefore without doubt a useful measure, because this can also benefit from the rich know-how of the ÖIAG in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! Unaffected by possible day-to-day cross-borders, ÖIAG is to develop a concept which, as a central point, provides for priority privatisation via the stock exchange to a maximum for Austrian investors. The model of the ATW may well serve as a model. With consistent and careful market policies, it is quite possible to achieve the desired objectives through appropriate management of initial placement, for example through smaller allocations. It is important, as mentioned, that the mere sale of the market to competition is avoided, which is clearly only to the detriment of the company. After all, we must not forget that more than 500 workers will also be affected by the forthcoming measures. And I am particularly concerned about protecting their rights in this regard. Not least for this reason, it is also welcome that legislation provides that at least 25 percent of the ÖIAG's ownership should remain. Whether it is actually a transformation of the current Dorotheum auction, offset and bank Ges.m.b.H. It is also necessary for the ÖIAG to examine whether it is intended to come to a stock company. A recommendation of the Federal Government may then be submitted. The final award – if there is not a stock exchange placement – is ultimately the responsibility of the Annual General Meeting. In my view, therefore, it should be noted that the present proposal is the right way, even with regard to the future market claim of the Dorotheum, but that a number of situations speak for a very far-sighted and cautious procedure. I therefore believe that the transfer to the ÖIAG is without a doubt a real step. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6768	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6789	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I join Mr Eder seamlessly and am not of his opinion at all. One can debate about the privatisation of the Dorotheum, but the law, as it is currently present, is legitimately adventurous, I would say. Why? – This law does not regulate important things, for that it is absurd in detail. It doesn't take care of important things. In particular, it does not respect the following rule: If I have such a company, i.e. the owner, the specific rules, is subject to certain regulations, and there is the possibility of changing these regulations in such a way that the company becomes more profitable than it was before, then I must do so before privatisation. I emphasize: before privatisation! Because that increases the value of the company and therefore the attainable sales revenue. I'll tell you what I mean by means of a newspaper article. In such circumstances, to privatize first and then to change the rules, is nothing but the so-called legal flooding of windfall profits to the new shareholders, without the owner's covenant having anything of it. That's exactly what seems to happen. I am not the Director-General of the Dorotheum, but the Director-General of the Dorotheum says he has been fighting for years for the Dorotheum to auction real estate, because at present – I quote from the "Economic Sheet" of 5th century. March 1998 – according to the Outstanding Law of 1854, only district property is expected to be auctioned. - I hope that's not a mistake. And it goes on to say: "General Director Karny says: We have the necessary experience, we have the powerful clientele, for us it would certainly be a good business – a business that would increase profit and thus yield value of the dorotheum with one blow." – End of the quote. Yeah, and why don't you do that? – I mean: Either this report is correct and the Dorotheum would like to, but should not auction any real estate, or the Director-General has slept there. [[Abg. Marizzi: Don't we have enough real estate dealers?]] Excuse me: The Federation is the owner of the Dorotheum, who is not there to represent any merchant interests. If he wants to sell the Dorotheum, he must also achieve a decent proceeds. The interests of the other real estate dealers or district courts are completely indifferent in this case! The League fails to achieve maximum proceeds here. In my opinion, this is a gross failure! These are, indirectly, our means of taxation. As I said, Essential things are not dealt with in this law on the privatisation of the dorotheum, for which other things are addressed. I read to you § 2, first sentence: ÖIAG has the task of developing a privatisation concept, which provides for the privatisation of the dorotheum as much as possible through the stock exchange with the highest possible share for Austrian investors. – I repeat: "as possible", "priority", "as far as possible". – In comparison, the targets in the Act of authorisation at the time for the sale of the CA were directly valid in a pattern, a pattern of clarity, which the owner actually wants. The ÖIAG is now to develop a concept. [[Call:Possible]] Yes, "if possible" develop a concept! - But what? – All of this seems to take place in the informal space: The Minister of Finance probably tells the directors of the ÖIAG only informally what he actually wants, because it is not in the law! It is not even decided whether the federal government wants to maximize its privatisation revenue. – This, for example, was the case at the time in the empowerment law on CA. There's nothing like this right now. The OIAG is supposed to do something. – The ÖIAG will certainly work out a concept. But what kind of thing? It explains exactly why the ÖIAG should maintain a share of at least 25 percent. Mr Eder has explained this, but this is not important to me in particular for Mr Eder. If there is a certain reason for this, he is included in the explanations to this law. But there's nothing about it, nothing at all! – Yes, Mr Marizzi will explain it to me then, but that is now also meat for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] It's not in the law! Irregular is for example something else, and what the owner of the Dorotheum – that is still the covenant – actually intends to do with the real estate of the Dorotheum itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] It's quite normal with such a thing – the Dorotheum owns, I don't know, one, two, three or more palaces in the city center – that you think about: Do we solve this first and privatize the operational part or do we not? That's all left to ÖIAG. They can do whatever they want under this law. [[Abg. Eder: On a proposal!]] I am talking about the logistics of this law, Mr Eder, nothing else. For me, law must be something that regulates a matter with sufficient determination. That's not the case. This is a paper in which the covenant, the owner of the Dorotheum, stands in, according to the motto: Do with what you want! [[Abg. Eder: Who owns the ÖIAG?]] This is at best the preliminary stage of a law, but never a material law. [[Abg. Eder: Who owns the ÖIAG? Don't you know?]] Eder, what are you doing? What are you doing? I am talking about the determination of a law, and you are asking me questions that every popular student in Austria can answer. [[Abg. Eder: Why don't you say it?]] That's ridiculous! [[Abg. Eder: You can't! Who owns the ÖIAG? I still don't hear anything!]] You will not get an answer from me to such a stupid question. There are no objections from us to the Health and Social Aid Act, which we will agree with. Nor is there any objection to the Convention on Customs Administrations from our side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] The Government Template 1050 of the Supplements: The Federal Law on the disposal of inmotible federal assets is also in negotiation; on the other hand, there are no objections. A little tricky is the matter with the New Credit Agreements, New Arrangements to Borrow, with the International Monetary Fund. I personally will agree. I don't know how my friends will decide. This is a little tricky in that there is currently an international discussion on whether or not the policy of the International Monetary Fund in South-East Asia should be transferred to the future, or not, and whether the International Monetary Fund, through its crisis intervention in Korea, Indonesia, and so on, will continue to behave in a moral-hazard way – I do not know how to translate it: [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: A contradiction in itself!]] "moral Hasard" is in German literature, which sounds as stupid as it is – i.e. a behaviour of debtors who cannot be in the interest of the creditor in the long term. But I do not think this is the time to discuss these things. I will personally agree with these new credit agreements, 1051 of the supplements, and I hope that the International Monetary Fund will be considering its policy in the foreseeable future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6946	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Frieser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e6967	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA will give its approval to Agenda items 3 to 7. I would just like to comment briefly on the privatisation of the Dorotheum, and my previous speaker Eder has already explained the details in detail as regards the profitability of the Dorotheum. I would therefore like to make a brief comment on this government's privatisation course. Allow me to read to you the following: The successful privatisation course in recent years has to continue rapidly, taking into account the preservation of Austrian interests and the improvement of the economic substance of companies. The following measures shall be provided for: Issue of the federal shares of Bank Austria, restructuring and privatisation steps at Austria Tobacco AG, Salinen AG and the state printing company, conversion of the postal and telegraph administration into a AG and introduction of the stock market within three years. To the P.S.K. conversion to an AG: Examination of a sale of shares in Post-Participation AG, 25 percent, and stock exchange placement. In all public administration departments, further breakdowns shall be made of those areas which do not fulfil the duties of the public authorities and which can be carried out more efficiently in independent, privately organised units. Ladies and gentlemen! What I have just presented to you stems from the 1996 Coalition Convention. And we can be proud to note that almost all these projects have been implemented; there are only a few outstanding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the proceeds of the privatizations carried out so far, Mr Finanzminister made a very extensive press release yesterday. I recommend you study these. As has been said, you will see in it the successful privatisation course of this coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The ÖVP line!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] On this occasion, I would like to remind the remaining ladies and gentlemen that the demand for privatisation has been raised by the EIA decades ago and that we have waited a long time. If we had privatized the former state-owned industry – for example, a decade ago we should have started it – then, Mr Gusenbauer, we would have saved fifty billion schillings of tax money. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 100 billion!]] 100 billion; but I don't want to determine. You or your group have prevented this permanently, we all know that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: And your black Director-General!]] – Mr Marizzi! Think about your past. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was a very dark chapter!]] This is a dark chapter in your economic policy, but, as has been said, today we can look proudly at the former state-owned enterprises, because they are all throwing considerable profits in the meantime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as asset privatisation is concerned. Another division is the so-called organizational privatisation or the often quoted breakdowns. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to admit in some of the exclusion measures that they have not always been carried out optimally, and in the future we have to consider very much the extent to which a private-law organisation is really more efficient than public administration. The instrument of the institution must also be rethinked. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that in the next one and a half years of this coalition government we have some projects on the agenda, such as state printing; I would also very much welcome the privatisation of the various airports or the sale of federal shares at airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7082	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schreiner. A voluntary time limit of 5 minutes is indicated. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7103	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! High house! Today, we are adopting a new credit line from the Austrian National Bank to the International Monetary Fund of exact 7.1 billion schilling. It serves to reintegrate the unstable capital markets, which are certainly the capital markets in Southeast Asia. Federal Minister for Finance! I'm just saying, The Oesterreichische National Bank thus opens a credit line, which can in itself be completely beaten. It may also be that if the intervention really takes place and the 7.1 billion shillings have to be written off – probably not the same, perhaps in a few years. In other words, although the Oesterreichische Nationalbank has money to help with the International Monetary Fund, it has no money for the special dividends we are meeting for the financing of a tax reform in Austria. I would just like to have said that once. We have money for international engagements, but we have none for a substantial ex-taxation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! On the question of confidence in capital markets. I mean, that's very strange. In Austria and in Europe, industrial jobs are rationalised – due to wage dumping, environmental dumping, social dumping, child labour in these countries – as products are delivered to Europe, it seems that the economy there does not suffer, the capital markets are swindling, and then Europe, and thus Austria, has the almost obligation to open up 7.1 billion schilling on credit lines there in order to restore order. Federal Minister for Finance! That is why economic policy alone cannot be seen because we – I have counted together what we have paid in the last 11 months to these multilateral financial institutions – have paid in 11 months 11.27 billion schilling; that is, in Austria we make savings packages, we do not make tax reform, we admit a tax rate of over 44 percent, but in 11 months we pay to these financial institutions 11.27 billion schilling. This does not correspond to our policy, to the freedom policy we represent and which we do not see reflected in government policy. We believe that this money should be used in Austria rather than in international financial institutions, and the European Court of Auditors, for example, also criticises the fact that the security of these flows is not guaranteed at all. There is a study that states that of these funds of multilateral development assistance – and this also plays a role here – exactly 8 per cent, while 92 per cent are sifting. Federal Minister for Finance! We are therefore not going to give our approval to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7157	Next word: Mr Mag. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7179	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Lady Schreiner! This was a classic speech that mixed "global apples" with "national pears". [[Call to the liberals: You've been better before!]] Things don't depend on how you put it here. To say that the credit line granted by the Austrian National Bank to the International Monetary Fund is obsolete tomorrow and the International Monetary Fund is a bad debtor is quite brave, and the I do not think that it would be useful to link it entirely with the wage dumping of the new industrial countries. However, I share your view that we must naturally think about the international financial system. We have been living in an interest rate trap for about 20 years, where real interest rates are higher than real growth. That is, the capital stock in our society is growing exponentially faster than the economy. If so, the capital stock, which grows exponentially with interest income, takes on an increasingly large part of the national income for itself, leaving less for wage income. This is mainly true in the financial sector and not in the sector. That's the jumping point! If the capital in our society were equally distributed, then this would be completely indifferent: the share of capital incomes, the incomes will fall, and the distribution of incomes is quite certain. Only: the opposite is the case. The capital income is, of course, accumulated by the interest rate and interest rate effect in an exponential equation in ever larger individual accumulations. This means clearly and clearly that today we have to question the system of capitalism, which has lost its counterpart, that we have to ask: What at least European or global rules of play do we need to find in order to make sense of this growth, in particular of financial capital? We decide today that, in the case of cases, our National Bank will provide an additional credit line to the International Monetary Fund if the International Monetary Fund needs it to re-establish a new financial crisis – in Mexico, in Southeast Asia. Here's the dilemma, here's the field of tension. It is not the "national pears" and the "global apples", but it is a very concrete problem that this exploding financial system produces ever greater air bubbles and, when these bubbles burst, the international financial community is hostageed to dispel these bubbles, because otherwise the entire financial system of this earth is in danger. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! We cannot, therefore, continue to do so and decide on a safeguard tranche after another, but we will probably have to enter into a real discussion – at least once in Austria, but then in the European Union and beyond – as we are dealing with international financial markets. Another classic example: Today, it is especially interesting in small and medium-sized enterprises to lend his money to the Minister of Finance, even if he pays only 5.5 percent for his federal bonds, there to lubricate the Kest with 25 percent, than to go to the property itself. In large stock companies, which have very good sales and capital returns, the return on dividends today depends on the capital used at 1 to 2 percent. The whole rest is about the price increases. Yes, one of you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, really believes that the American economy from 1985 – Dow-Jones 2000 – on 1997 – Dow-Jones 8500 and on the rise – has become more than four and a half times more valuable? Do you not see that there is a connection between financial flows and financial speculation? And in this financial speculation, Siemens, as well as the Bank Austria, as well as the Deutsche Bank, as well as other large industrial companies, is participating in the process of producing the essential parts of their earnings, which they distribute as dividends, not in their production, but in investment assets, but in circulation. Ladies and gentlemen! This is where things are happening worldwide, which we in Austria should start to discuss seriously – and yet there has been no discussion about it – if we are still working to strengthen these international organisations to prevent a global financial crash. I therefore believe that it would be wise to start thinking in the form of a survey in Parliament at least once as a first national step on the financial markets. And it is certainly the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to raise this issue in the ECOFIN Council if it is not hoped that it has been discussed more often than not, in order to give a clear opinion from the Austrian side as well. Because what is being done today by further credit lines for the International Monetary Fund for the crisis case is no more and no less than the potential losses of those who have previously made 100, 500 or 1000 percent profit are now offset by international funds. That's the point! We are hostages today to have to do it to secure the financial system. But we should consider whether we are not subject to a different tax on capital movements as a whole. That is what I mean, quite specifically, by financial capital and not by real capital, Mr Finanzminister. Did we discuss the Tobin tax in Austria, which we cannot introduce nationally? We can only discuss it internationally within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, within the OECD, within the framework of UN organizations. But it cannot be said that today the tax burden on labour is increasing, that the tax burden on capital is ultimately falling in the financial sector, and that we are not even able to collect the bubble economy, which, in order to win the second or third place behind the comma, is daily hunting billions of money around the world. I am very concerned, therefore, that we are going into a trap here, which cannot be meaningful and not good. We will nevertheless vote in favour of Agenda items 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, because we believe it is necessary, and we hope that the Minister of Finance will bring about the privatisation of the Dorotheum in such a way that, as far as possible, all employees, including the ÖIAG and, as far as possible, the Minister of Finance, are as happy as possible. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: And as soon as possible!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7228	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7250	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As a first point, I would like to refer briefly to the Dorotheum in Vienna and say from this point of view what I think I should be in the Committee. Federal Minister! We have nothing against privatising this traditional company. On the contrary, we welcome privatisation, because it is a very profitable and very well-led company. However, we believe that it could be done much better in private hands, in a private shareholder structure, and therefore there is a fundamental yes from our side in this sense. However, we have different views on the way to privatisation. There are already serious differences. Federal Minister! When your predecessor prepared the last major privatisation step through the ÖIAG, it was necessary to hurry. A "net" construction has been made: They have mobilised everything from Bank Austria to ÖIAG, so that the Minister of Finance can only get money very quickly. There have also been requirements as to how high the minimum yield should be per share that the Minister of Finance must receive, and with an improvement clause, one has indeed - I must admit - still been able to optimise the proceeds. In fact, I would have imagined a similar way in the privatisation of the Vienna Dorotheum: first of all, one goes here and basically evaluates the company, makes the company stock exchangeable – one of which is that one is already producing the body law structure, the right structure for a future stock exchange, that is, a conversion from a GmbH into a stock company – that then – but already in advance, Mr. Colleague! – the Ministry of Finance is given an idea of how high sales revenue is to be per share, and then the Minister of Finance will ensure that, with an improvement clause, a surplus proceeds to the Ministry of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi]] But that's not what happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] No, my colleague! You need to read the template more precisely! – Now the Dorotheum is transferred to the property of ÖIAG without any payment. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] Yes, it's clear who the ÖIAG belongs to! We liberals, I would like to say with all clarity, do not want to prevent there to be a single company in Austria in the future, which will deal with HTM or with semperit. [[Abg. Marizzi: Semperit was not a federal company!]] But there was an indirect participation, Mr. Cot. – It is therefore important to set a high level and not simply say: Minister, do it! – I don't think that's enough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, in order to make arrangements for the company to remain in national possession where possible, to be privatized via the stock exchange and for the staff to come to the custodian, we shall put in place a motion for a resolution which I shall now read. [[Abg. Eder: "Come to the kiss"?- Oh, my God!]] You can also say: benefit. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eder.]] Don't play word games! The motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this motion for a resolution is much more precise than a vague statement of intent. That's what it's all about! We did not agree to the Privatisation Act at the time, and we will not give our consent either because you want to privatize the Dorotheum exactly according to the valid privatisation concept. We believe that there should be another way to go. The second point I would like to make in brief – I do not have so much time, Mr. Cot, to respond to each of your calls – concerns some thoughts from my point of view about the "New Arrangements to Borrow". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] [[Abg. Eder: Wow!]] That's what the template says. Read, please, my colleague. [[Abg. Eder: I meant your English!]] As my colleague Schreiner has already said, this is about making a provision, namely the granting of a guarantee in the form of 412 million special drawing rights, which will then be used. However, what I note is the fact, Mr Federal Minister, that in the presentation the word "South East Asia" does not appear in any single word. I do not really want to paint the devil on the wall, but I do not think that the programme now under planning will be sufficient to cover the impact of the South-East Asian monetary and financial crisis. I believe that there will have to be greater payments to ensure sustainability. However, in order for these payments to actually be made, there is a real need for extensive reforms in the International Monetary Fund. But these are not yet in sight! The government just says: Yes, you have the 412 million special drawing rights! I have to say: The Americans are doing this! The Americans said: First of all, we must speak seriously about the structure and human composition of the IMF! One thing is unacceptable, Minister of State: in April 1997, the IMF issued an opinion on Indonesia, Malaysia and other South-East Asian states, in which the governments of these states are praised for their efforts on the green clover, but on 15 May 1997 it was adopted. In August 1997, he was forced to do so. The IMF obviously did not use the instruments available to it properly. That's why the Americans say: Actually, we must first talk about the people, about the new structures, about new means, and only then can you expect our consent! – The Americans will be sure to get through with this. We ask the liberals to do so, too, Minister of State! Therefore, we would like to ask you: Please be committed to reforming the IMF. Then you will find more willingness from us liberals to agree to such templates.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7396	Mr Firlinger! You have tabled a motion for a resolution here orally, but it is not available to the Bureau. I'm asking you to explain this with your club. The next item is the speech by Mr Marizzi. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7421	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because colleague Frieser – she is not here at the moment – said that we had a dark past in the nationalized industry: It may have been that we may have privatized too late, but I can remember that at that time – in the "black" past – very black Director-Generals opposed certain things and sat down on their posts. I also admit that in our own party we have had difficulties to enforce this, but if you look at the past, especially the near past, then you can see that the most successful privatization ministers were Lacina, Climate and Edlinger. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You only need to look at the success curves of the companies concerned on the stock exchange, such as those of VA-Tech, VA-steel or AMS and many other companies. They all bear clearly and clearly the manuscript of this federal government with the leading personalities who made these privatizations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Of course, Mr Koppler has cooperated! And, of course, the works councils and the employees – you have to say that – have contributed to this. Without her, it wouldn't have happened. Now I have to scratch the curve to the Dorotheum, because it is difficult to get from the ÖIAG to the Dorotheum. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen seems to have ridden the "pilz" today, but as a German speaker he must obviously be a little more punctual and a little more aggressive. In any case, I did not understand what he meant by his words. Ladies and gentlemen! The task of this law is to order the ÖIAG to prepare a privatisation concept. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Finanzguru Firlinger! Privatization – and that's what the law says, but you have to read it! – takes place mainly through the stock exchange. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I read it twice!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Mr Firlinger! I don't hear you, I know you're getting upset now, but it's so! Look at the last successful privatizations! I can still remember what theater was performed here in this house, and then everyone knocked on their shoulders and sat in the first row and they were admired how well they did it all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Mr Firlinger! First, we give the Dorotheum the opportunity to increase the capital base, second, we open up a new source of funding with privatisation, thus enabling an expansion, thirdly, we offer the opportunity that the Dorotheum – and there are some who want it – does not come into foreign hands, and fourthly we ensure – something that is of particular importance to us – that the 500 employees employed there are secured. - You won't be able to prevent that. That's our goal! It is said by your side – in the form of ear whispers – again and again that you have to increase the equity base of companies to ensure that they are secured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Mr Gaugg! Letter You're in your main political book: The loss is the biggest enemy of the workplace! If we make profits in these companies, we secure the employees. Is that right? - Now look at me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Just like the mail!]] Mr Gaugg! Because you're addressing me: I come from a location where we started privatization ten years ago. Two thousand people have been cut down there. We have had the most serious political losses there, and we have lost most of the votes to your party. But you were there actually those who then stood up and said: The "buds" belong locked! – That is the truth, Mr Gaugg! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Summary: We make a successful privatisation with caution and attention. Mr Gaugg will not be able to prevent this from happening; he can at most re-book it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7537	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7558	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government template 1051 of the Supplements is an increase in the credit framework for the International Monetary Fund in the order of 7.1 billion schilling. In other words, this loan is not immediately due for disbursement, but comes into a so-called reserve fund for any future crises. But that's the problem. We have recently experienced a south-east Asia crisis of enormous magnitude, which resulted in the IMF providing approximately 100 billion dollars of aid. This crisis was obviously not recognized correctly and not in time. Of course, many – and this is the criticism of the International Monetary Fund – say that in the reports the situation of the South-East Asian countries is somewhat too rosy, which is why such things happen. On the other hand, the International Monetary Fund says: If we are going to go into the depths of the reports on the situation in these countries and show the structural problems of these countries and what is actually at stake there, then we may be the trigger of a crisis there. Of course, the IMF does not want to be the bearer of a bad message either. But then a so-called vicious circle begins. I remember the last report on Korea. The December report on Korea was such that every private investor could think: There I have to go, there I have to invest, because there is everything in order! But a few months later, a crisis broke out there. The competent Members of the International Monetary Fund or the agents of the rating agencies must also have the courage to say which things do not agree that these countries have, for example, an economic growth of only 2% or 3% and a government debt of over 60% of the gross domestic product. As a matter of principle, then, before we decide on further empowerment, the International Monetary Fund is radically changing its reporting system over several countries, not only on macroeconomic data such as the movement of payment flows, but also on the real counter-business facing these payments flows. If one sees that only 4 per cent of a payment flow is in the face of goods and services and production, then one knows about how the globalization is being juggled, in a 95 per cent scale, which has no background based only on speculation. This is the criticism of the liberals. We are not against Austria's participation in such actions. However, we are very much against the fact that we have to take part in such actions over and over again, because the country's reports are not such as to draw their attention to the crisis in time, so that we can react in advance and that we do not have to say: There's a hundred billion dollars missing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not understand why we should now make money available to the Fund again. If the Austrian National Bank's Annual Report shows the claims to the International Monetary Fund with 18 billion schilling – effective payments 8.8 billion schilling, and 9.8 billion schilling have not yet been recovered – I wonder what we have to adopt a law for today, which provides that we have to pay money into the reserve funds, although already 9.8 billion reserves are available. It's a mystery to me! That's why I'd mean: Before we get back to such international assistance, which is also at the expense of our liquidity, because the whole is provided by the central bank, it must be ensured that there is real reforms in the International Monetary Fund, namely reforms in the way its reports state how they are actually ordered by the individual countries. These reports have not only macroeconomic data but also microeconomic data to contain, statements on how the structure in the countries concerned is obtained, whether the banks are divided into five families, or whether there are real competitive conditions there, as we in Central Europe are used to, whether the holdings are owned by only a few families and whether speculations are operated there. We do not want the International Monetary Fund to generously overlook these things and to pay for them. That is why we cannot give our approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7621	The next item is the speech by Mr Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7643	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As the coincidence wants – and it must be referred to as a coincidence if, on four different issues being discussed under one, two successive speakers are planning to speak on the same subject – I too will address the question of "New Arrangements to Borrow" as my previous speaker, Mr Trattner. I am glad that the debate between FPÖ-Redner and FPÖ-Redner has become more professional, because the first speaker of FPÖ, Mr Schreiner, has acted as if it were not a credit but a money gift. He obviously did not read the government paper precisely, otherwise he would have recognized that what we now want to decide on a decision of the Executive Council of 27 December 1989. It dates back to January 1997, i.e. from a time when no crisis scenarios in Southeast Asia were available at all. Therefore, this increase in the credit framework is not to be seen as an answer to the crisis in Southeast Asia, but as a result of the discussions on how they are basically conducted in the International Monetary Fund. Mr Trattner and I, together with other colleagues, recently visited the Breton Woods institutions and tried to discuss with the experts the question of the higher financing needs in the form of credit provision. It is primarily due to the fact that, as a result of the liberalisation of international capital movements, small open economies are becoming increasingly crisis-sensitive, which can mean collapses in one direction or another. In addition to other countries, Austria is a small open economy. That is why we must also insist that there are internationally reasonable, stable conditions and, among other things, an institution such as the International Monetary Fund, which can intervene in the event of an emergency. Your proposal, Mr Trattner, that the country reports should be structured differently, I think is somewhat problematic. Because – we have discussed this –: If the Monetary Fund says: Hands away from this country, because there are the conditions in the micro-economic field particularly bad!, then in any case this leads to the withdrawal of foreign capital, then in any case it leads to a crisis. Finally, no one will be able to answer the question of whether this crisis has been due to the assessment policy of the International Monetary Fund or because the micro-economic conditions there were so poor. If you discuss this question, you have to look empirically at what has happened there. Has any country where there have been similarly poor microeconomic conditions, such as Thailand, been hit by the crisis in recent months? – If we look at the entire area of the new industrialized countries, we note that there has been a crisis immediately in every country where the conditions are quite similar to those in Thailand. That is to say, in addition to the internal conditions, there must be additional market-psychological reasons, which is why the crisis has become striking at that time. I just mention one example: The data from South Korea have been addressed, and there is, of course, the well-known analysis with the great role played by the large private conglomerates; there has been criticism of too high inflation and so on and so on. But just – Mr Firlinger, be careful! – in relation to individual incriminated data, there has actually been a positive change in the last quarter before the crisis broke out. In other words, the crisis in South Korea would have had to take place four months earlier after the general adoption, if at all, and not at the time when it actually broke out. I believe that one has not yet reached the point of wisdom in the analysis of why crises occur in this form at a very specific time. There are only one explanation approach. – But I would like to say that it will probably never succeed at all – at least in this form of the market economy in which we are located – to eliminate all crises. The only thing we can do is try to create within a country and in the international financial system conditions that prevent the emergence of crises as far as possible, and to try, if there is a crisis, to alleviate their impact. In this context, there is now an interesting international discussion, in my opinion, on the question: If the Monetary Fund takes over these payments anyway, is that not a so-called bail-out of banks? This means that those who have taken the risk before, in fact, do not have to pay for it because the Monetary Fund is already taking this up. On the one hand, we know that some of those who have invested have lost money, and on the other hand, the question arises of the alternative: Wouldn't it be good if the International Monetary Fund didn't "go in there"? In the meantime, I believe, it is generally accepted that it is good if the fund "enters in". What is discussed is – and I believe this is justified –: To a greater extent, can those who have benefited in the period before it also be led to do their part when burdens are being beaten? – In fact, I think that is an important discussion. Second point of the debate: The issue of how the impact on the affected population will be discussed in all of this Bail-out. In all these countries there are large layers of the population, who have indeed had nothing of the fact that there has been massive investment there, but are now being asked to cash out in the crisis. Because if the growth or gross domestic product in a affected country breaks down by 10 per cent per anno, then it is not necessary to discuss the question of distribution effects for long periods of time. That is why, in my opinion, the American Senate has also rightly asked the question: What are the international financial institutions doing to involve the people concerned, namely the socially weak, at least in the restructuring packages, and not just in the macroeconomic side? In my view, these are extremely serious, very important and highly reasonable issues that are not only debated in any esoteric circles today, but I would like to point out that the World Bank's chief economist – and I am happy to make this speech available – Joseph Stiglitz, just recently in Chicago addressed these key issues of the international monetary and financial system and made some proposals to them. Interestingly, for the first time in the World Bank, he also said that it was not a priority to reject such issues as the Tobin tax, but also to include these issues in the regulation of international financial systems. I consider this crisis, like any other crisis, to be an opportunity to learn from it and to create a more stable international financial system in the future. I think Austria is well advised to take an intensive part in these debates. We are also well advised to make available, in the event of the need for a crisis fire brigade, these special drawing rights, which are not provided perdu by funds, but are loans that are properly interested. We note with our contribution that open, small economies also have the opportunity to be stabilised in an international financial association. Therefore, I believe, one can and should agree to this government template – but this does not end the debate on the conclusions of the Southeast Asia crisis, but is only open.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7712	Before the next issue of words, I shall report to the honourable Member that he has the power to do so before. Firlinger's resolution is now in writing, properly filed and supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gaugg, Member of the Commission. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7736	Mr President. Federal Minister! To Southeast Asia and America return to homeland. Mrs Frieser, on her speech today on the privatisation of the Dorotheum: I am convinced that: You wouldn't have done that to the intelligence test you requested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, on the one hand, you are talking about profitable profits in the privatized companies, if you are talking about whether it would be too much to consider whether private or public law is better, then it must be said that the representative of a party who has directly raised privatisation to the dogma, namely privatization, which has so far been done, and especially at the expense of the employees in Austria. The ÖVP has made a sad figure in the merger of the Bank Austria and the Creditanstalt-Bankverein. In a terrible disaster, this party was! She would have preferred to start new elections again, but because of fear of losing further mandates, they have not been able to do so. Another example is Post AG, where Mr Ditz, your former Secretary of State, is driving his unsociety, where one has to release 9 000 employees in the context of privatisation and to be fit for the stock exchange. – This is your form of privatisation, which is exclusively at the expense of the employees in Austria. And now the next "hopper" privatisation is on the program, that of the Dorotheum. In principle, the consideration of a privatisation of the dorotheum is to be agreed, but the form, as it happens, reminds us of the troublesome times, of things as they have happened a few times, most recently at Steyr. If Dr. Haider had not written a letter on the day of the Supervisory Board meeting Mr. Randa and warned him to give the company to Mr. Stronach, he would have received it by 3.5 billion schilling. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You don't really believe what you're saying!]] Now he has had to put down 4 billion schillings, and we will also talk about how and in what form this ach so powerful and good Mr Stronach will pay if he will offer his "dizzy" shares or whether Bares actually flows in the interest of Austrian taxpayers and Austrian households. But the withdrawal from Parliament's responsibility seems to be the top principle. There is the Dorotheum, whose value we do not see before we hand it over to the ÖIAG. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! If I think of the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister today, I must say that it is pretty slow – one has to let these "well-being" words break down on the tongue! – Absent from Parliament at all, because you are so great and so great, but the reality unfortunately looks different. 300 000 unemployed people, who have partly lost their jobs due to the unsuccessful privatisations in Austria, suffer from the fact that you are unable to carry out privatisations in the interests of Austrian workers. They only operate corporate policy, which is clear to me. The OMV also plays an improper game with its petrol prizes: Once we go down 70 grins, the next day we go up by 50 grins again. These are all your own, but apparently this is a government kneeling before this company, because three members of the government and three members of the SPÖ Group come from this company. Now I'm wondering slowly: What's going on in this Republic? Where is the responsibility of the members of the government vis-à-vis the employees in these companies? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – It would be appropriate to think of disseminating, once a value has been established, to draw up an opinion, as requested in the motion for a resolution tabled by Reinhard Firlinger. That would be correct and fair. However, their formulations – "mighty" and "perhaps", "with as high a share as possible for Austrian investors" – are simply unrealistic. I ask you: How do you want to prevent a domestic company from reselling abroad? How do you want to prevent this if you go to the stock exchange without appropriate preparations? And you want to have a competence that if privatisation cannot be done via the stock exchange, the government will decide what will happen in the end. I am more comfortable when we discuss how a company such as the Dorotheum can be privatized as much as possible. But before it's turned over to the ÖIAG, I want to know what it's worth.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7794	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7815	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg! Perhaps Mr. Haider has also written a letter to Mr. Randa, but it has already been Mr. Ex-Minister Androsch who has brought movement back to the sale of Steyr. That's just for clarification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Kreisky doesn't like that!]] That doesn't matter, God bless him! Mr. Ofner, no problem. But maybe we'll come to the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! The problems encountered in 1997 in accounting for socially insured foreign residents require the new legislation on the Health and Social Assistance Act 1996 to be adopted today. According to the current legal situation, the aid was to be reduced in the treatment of foreign patients. After the amendment to the GSBG to be decided now, the conversion of aid will take place from 1. 1. In 1998, it was amended that the loss due to the reduction of aid could in fact be charged to foreign institutions as treatment costs, with the Federal Government taking over the corresponding pre-financing in favour of the Land Fund. For 1998, therefore, the adoption of the amendment to the GSBG today provides for a solution to this problem. A solution to the outstanding aid equivalent is being drawn up for 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why no cost claims were passed on to foreign cost providers for 1997 was precisely the unclear legal assessment of the verifiability of this aid equivalent. It should also be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that the net amount without aid equivalent for social security purposes is also offset from 1. 1. In 1997 it would have been possible for the sickness funds or for the Landesfonds. Mr Böhacker! If you look at the arrangement as it is until the 1st century. 1. In 1997, that is to say for 1996, it should also be mentioned that it was the local health insurance fund which entered into force. It has further calculated the care costs plus KRAZAF supplement. This was usually far below the actual cost – not always, but mostly. The new regulation, Mr Böhacker, gives rise to a higher recalculation of these contributions to foreign patients. As a result, this is something relative for 1997, Mr Böhacker. And by the way – once again –: The federal or regional funds could have recalculated the net amounts. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ask the national financial experts!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I would like to say that it is not true – and that is also true – that foreign patients have been treated free of charge in Austrian hospitals, as has been so plausibly claimed in a daily newspaper. Rather, today's decision making of this novel to the GSBG is the problem from 1st century onwards. 1. 1998 is satisfactory for all those concerned; a satisfactory solution is also envisaged for 1997. In this sense: Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7872	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7894	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The item on the agenda gives an opportunity – and some of my previous speakers have already noticed this opportunity – to address the International Monetary Fund very briefly after we have to decide on the authorisation for the "New Arrangements to Borrow" here too. I would like to follow up with the speech of my previous speaker, Gusenbauer, because that was too positive, too rosary and simply not right and not in line with reality, and this must and should also be said here, although I personally agree with this request, the voting behaviour in our group is exempt and open to everyone to decide for himself whether he agrees to this request or not. Just a moment ago: It cannot be said, Mr Gusenbauer, that people are involved in the measures and programmes of the IMF. This is still one of the hardest criticisms of all NGOs which are seriously concerned with the IMF's framework conditions, that this is not the case, especially in the recent crisis, for example in Indonesia, the population has not been included, and that there have been very concrete, very realistic savings proposals by large associations, including a large environmental protection association in Indonesia, which have helped in this crisis management, and that these proposals have not been taken into account, although in some areas they would have been far more efficient than what is now required by the IMF. It is still an accusation to the IMF that "good government" is in no way taken into account, even there or there at risk of democracies, when the IMF has granted loans in times when dictatorships have ruled there, but then recovers them from democracies that are only in existence. There would have been a number of points to be made here, and it would be worth it and it would be important for the Austrian Parliament to deal with the Monetary Fund in a very critical way, for example, with the situation that the Monetary Fund has received a monopoly in these 50 years of its existence, a monopoly in the diagnosis of economic problems and economic policy analyses, and also a monopoly as regards the corresponding therapies. And that's not always good. On the contrary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is very one-sided and does not take into account a principle of sustainable development in different countries. That is the disadvantage of this monopoly. The demand for transparency and evaluation, often quoted here and repeatedly, is particularly important if you look at the crisis in Southeast Asia or if we look at it behind the mirror. Why? – If you look at the credit volume alone again: 17 billion dollars for Thailand, 23 billion dollars for Indonesia, 60 billion dollars for Korea – without transparency, with no guarantee of evaluation and no guarantee of public involvement. It has already been quoted: Members of the American House of Representatives and the Senate rightly call for greater control of the national parliaments, which provide precisely these credit frameworks. I believe that this would also be a call for the Austrian Parliament to follow up: a very clear report has to be made. Another word on the country reports: The country reports alone do not. Of course, it is a small achievement that there are country reports, and it is true that there can be no precise extent of the micro-economic situation in country reports. But if, on the other hand, country reports look the way they are currently looking at, then they are not worth the paper on which they stand, then they are more or less for the Hugo, because no one can orient themselves according to these country reports. It is also interesting to see which country is now publishing the agreement with the IMF and which are not. Thailand has published the agreement, Korea has promised, Indonesia is not even talking about the publication of the agreement with the IMF because of its political situation. But it would be necessary to ensure that the measures can only be taken in some way. I would like to sum up and take a short look at the multilateral investment agreement, which seems to me to be important, since we will be discussing the MAI again in the afternoon: It is not enough if some of the IMF's chief economists or executive director has a positive approach in relation to the tax on tobins. We know, at the latest since our visit to Washington, that a change in the Statute of the IMF would no longer be worth mentioning, and that what is currently planned and anchored in the MAI would still put it in the shadow. Because this is not only about the overview and control, but also about the regulation of financial markets – without this control and with the full overview in this one institution that has the monopoly. However, I think - and I conclude - that these questions cannot be raised on this request or on this decision with yes or no, but that it is urgently necessary for the Austrian Parliament to deal with the IMF in a very detailed and comprehensive manner now and in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7961	Mr Edlinger has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e7982	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would just like to comment on those items of business which have been discussed in the discussion, first of all on the commission to initiate a partial privatisation of the Dorotheum on the ÖIAG. Of course, there is a wide range of views about this. First of all, we can regulate structures, we can put in place various measures which we believe have an impact on the value of the dorotheum, but we can also go the other way, as outlined by this government template, namely that the ÖIAG mandates to draw up a privatisation concept, with the content of reviewing all the facets which require a partial privatisation of this, as I believe, very good company, to make proposals, and finally to propose to the government a way that meets those criteria which we believe must be fulfilled. In other words, by today's decision in the National Council, the ÖIAG will by no means be given the opportunity to divest itself, but will be given the task of presenting a privatisation concept to the Austrian Federal Government. I am also grateful for the fact that the previous measures of privatisation, initiated and implemented through the ÖIAG, have led to quite respectable results. I therefore assume that the ÖIAG will continue in this case with equal attention and effectiveness in the interests of the owner, the Republic of Austria. I would like to add that, of course, very detailed discussions have come to be held on this issue, not least with regard to the debate by Mr Firlinger, Mr Firlinger, staff representatives of the Dorotheum. For, of course, employee participation is provided for, of course, the ÖIAG's privatisation concept is drawn up on the basis of an evaluation opinion, so that I believe that, because of the fact that this is already planned, the request you have made – I have already told you in committee – is essential. I believe that the ÖIAG – and this question cannot be discussed on one aspect of privatisation, but it should be said that it is increasingly the function of a core shareholder for the Republic of Austria. This is a wise solution that ensures the location in Austria and ultimately also the jobs that may be affected by such a company and by a change in the location in Austria, in the specific case in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Changes in the Social Aid Act. It was found that this was a failure of the Federal Government. In this context, I would like to point out that this situation, which has occurred with the socially insured foreign residents, has shown a relative detail in relation to the whole change in the financing of hospitals in Austria. I would like to remind you that in 1996, in very difficult, very long, very intensive discussions, we changed the financing of hospitals, with the aim of preventing hospital costs from exploding year after year, because ultimately someone else pays than the one who holds the handling over the hospitals in Austria. I can understand this from the point of view of the financial philosophy because of my former function from both sides. It was therefore not easy to get this hospital financing over the stage. But we can see today that this construction, which I do not want to presume to take place after about a year and a half, is a final decision, but it looks very much like funding through the Land Fund and therefore a very strong involvement of responsibility, including those who ultimately lead the hospitals, plus the possibility that business facets can be more closely taken into account in the management of hospitals, was certainly a right concept. I am already admitting that a detail has been clearly overlooked, namely the fact that, in the context of the international social security agreement, an EU resistance arises because there may be some problems here from two sides – including that of the prohibition on aid. In connection with 50 million – as it was claimed – I have never spoken of "Peanuts". That's a far too high amount to name him like that. I admit, however, that, after long negotiations with the countries, we have to find a political solution for 1997 because, in the end, because of the non-conformity of two federal states with the other seven and the fact that the federal government has not been able to intervene in any way, the year 1997 has passed. But I would like to tell you one thing, Mr Böhacker: I was not a member of this House at the time of the decision to finance hospitals in this House, but I can't remember having heard somewhere about the fact that, for example, you or another member of your group would have drawn attention to this situation during the debate on the financing of hospitals. I assume that the Minister of Finance of the time would have been very grateful to you for this. [[Abg. Böhacker: That was often enough at the time! We have often made enough proposals!]] Yes, if Once you make a smart proposal, of course, it will be taken over. Of course! [[Abg. Böhacker: The communities would have been grateful if you had accepted the proposals!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the third point: I believe that the new credit agreements with the International Monetary Fund are a very important act because in the future they can also serve to resolve any problems that may arise there or there. But I give right to all those who believe that the structure and perhaps also the guidelines that the IMF has covered. In this regard, we have not only discussed a fairly agreed procedure within the European Union's Finance Minister, but I know that the IMF itself is also considering the way in which the IMF is to operate in the future and how to put an early warning system into effect, without the fact that it is only possible to prevent what should be done on and on its own – and that is what Mr Gusenbauer has already pointed out – because it is a very sensitive matter as a whole. I would like to believe that the IMF must develop an early warning system, that the IMF – which has also been required by the European Union's finance ministers – must ensure the independence of the central banks in all these countries, that it is the control and also the banking supervisors, and that private banks, which often occur in very light credit operations, can ultimately be asked to the cash register in case of a crisis. It cannot be that, under some circumstances, speculative profits are always privatized, but then, when something happens, the public hands have to hold back in order to put the system back in place. Although the Southeast Asia crisis is far away, I do believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary for us to equip the only financial crisis fire brigade we have – perhaps this is a lack, and we must think about it – with the means and possibilities it needs to be able to operate in the event of crisis-related phenomena. The world has grown small, globalisation is connecting us all. Crisis-like phenomena on one side of the globe are often faster and with more serious effects on the other side of the globe than you think – with effects that may not be quite right then. I, too, believe - and this has played a role in the discussions - that most of the social weakest among the wheels are most likely to come to grips with the crisis of financial phenomena. It is therefore really necessary to consider within the framework of the international community that, in the case of such apparitions, not those most likely to do so should actually settle the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the request I have made today is significant, and that it is by no means the same as that of a Member of Parliament: that the Americans have agreed to it. We are involved with 412 million special drawing rights, the US with 6 712 million, i.e. 1.2 to 19.7 percent. The United States cannot say goodbye, they will not. I therefore believe that it is in everyone's interest to give the IMF the opportunities it needs to continue to be able to act as a fire brigade if this is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8041	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. I ask you to take the seats. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1078 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to agree to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is also one-bright. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 918 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to the draft law in third reading to give a sign of this. – This is once again the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Firlinger and comrades concerning the privatisation of state-owned companies. In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely the Agreement between Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on mutual support for their customs administrations and the Additional Protocol and Protocol on the accession of Greece to the Agreement between the Member States of the European Economic Community on mutual support for their customs administrations and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria in 990 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is the case with the vote. The approval shall be granted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the versions of the Convention, together with the Additional Protocol and the Protocol on the Accession of Greece in French, Italian and Dutch, should be made known by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the official hours. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1050 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is one-bright the case. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the case of your third-reading approval, I also ask for a corresponding sign. – This is uniquely the case. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1051 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of your third-reading approval, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 8. Point Third reading of the Federal Constitutional Act on the Empowerments of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Urban Federation (in 974 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8200	We come to item 8 of the agenda: Third reading of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Empowerments of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Urban Federation in 974 of the Supplements. I shall now vote in third reading on the draft law and on the title and receipt in 974 of the supplements as amended by the second reading of the decision. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. 9. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (656 of Supplements): Federal Law amending the Food Act 1975 (1101 of Supplements) 10. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law on the implementation of Title II of Regulation (EC) No. Council Regulation (EC) No 820/97 of 21 December 1997 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulations (EEC) No 820/97 and (EEC) No 820/97 of 21 December 1997 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (EEC) No 820/97 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 820/97 (EEC) No 820/97 (EEC) No 820/97 (EEC) No 820/97 (EEC) No 820/97 (EEC) No 820/97 of 21 December 1997 (EEC) No 820/97 of 21 December 1997 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (EEC) No 820/97 of the Council (EEC) No 820/97 of 21 June 1997 (OJ L 82, 21.3.1997, p. 1). April 1997 establishing a system for the labelling and registration of bovine animals and on the labelling of beef and veal products (Rhine-labelling Act) (1102 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (949 of Supplements): EU Veterinary Adjustment Act 1997 (1103 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8273	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speech is made by Mrs Salzl. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8305	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the current debate, the agenda items 9, 10 and 11 will be dealt with under one. This is a change to the Food Act, a law on the labelling and registration of bovine animals and on the labelling of beef and beef and veal products and, thirdly, a veterinary adaptation law in the field of animal disease control. It is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, that it is obviously the tendency of all these legislative projects to pass through Parliament and turn Parliament off in the implementation of EU regulations. This becomes particularly evident in the food legislation, in which the EU adaptation is taken as an opportunity to implement future EU regulations in this area directly and without Parliament's referral. So, of course, you save yourself unpleasant discussions with the opposition. Such adjustments to existing or given EU regulations in the Federal Republic of Germany will be regulated in a completely different and more democratic way. This Parliament could take an example there. There, of course, national implementation is advised by the Bundestag, and this is also extremely important – for the protection of producers and, above all, for the protection of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are liberals for effective and effective food control. However, it is important for us to be concerned with this and to be able to exercise the necessary control, which should often take place here. We therefore believe that the path chosen in this regard is wrong and will not support it either. It is similar in the case of beef labelling and beef labelling. This legislative project is deficient in technical possibilities and, above all, in the need for effective animal disease control. The only sensible and highly falsifying measure would be the identification of the animals by means of microchips which are implanted under the skin and thus accompany and label an animal for life. All life data would be clearly accessible, the identity, the origin and also the origin of the animals would be detectable at any time. On the other hand, earmarks, which could be added in any way, are often lost and are sometimes deliberately removed and manipulated. In my opinion, the fact that this marking is to be transferred to the AMA is only a monetary acquisition action for the AMA and an attempt to prove and support its right to exist. In this context, the attitude of the EIAs is particularly noteworthy. If it is about veterinary investigation fees in the context of an effective disease control, which would also be in the interests of the animal farmers and farmers, then the ÖVP regrets the fees and the amount of these fees, but if it is about its party friends from the AMA, which in addition to the AMA contributions already prescribed, withdraw the money from the bag and deposit it properly, then the ÖVP does not disturb at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: All your colleagues have gone to dinner! You're poor already! To leave a colleague alone! All my colleagues are going to eat!]] Party Friends, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is not possible, even if this is at the expense of farmers and at the expense of safety in the defence of animal diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, perhaps a few words on the Veterinary Adjustment Act. According to explanations, this is intended to harmonise Austrian animal health law. In fact, it is not harmonisation, but a levelling down of our relatively high animal health standards. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's incredible!]] The changed situation is due to increased mobility within the EU in relation to the increased risk of animal disease removal, much less taken into account. In addition to the constitutional concerns expressed in the opinions, I do not want to raise any further concerns. It is therefore incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, in times of swine fever and BSE, to allow the feeding of food residues, as described here, to allow, in one of my opinion, poor heating to only 95 degrees over half an hour. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – especially from the ÖVP, but also from the SPÖ! Obviously, they have not learned anything from the BSE crisis. In order to be really safe, such waste should be heated to at least 133 degrees, under at least 3 atu or 3 bar pressure and at least 20 minutes to achieve a death of BSE pathogens, the prions, but above all the spores. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, the draft law in this House also has serious shortcomings in the field of bee control. Agriculture alone has been affected in recent years by the lack of pollination, because many bee populations have died away, in two-digit billion-height damage. In other words, effective animal disease control is extremely important, because it is really about billions of money to the detriment of our farmers, to the detriment of our agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is grossly negligent if, in future, animal diseases are not dealt with with with with any consequence. Therefore, we will not give our consent to the liberties of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8362	Mrs Huber has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8384	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think we can already maintain that our Austrian food law is one of the most stringent and also one of the safest in the world. Not least because of this and because of the existing ban on imports of British beef it is in Austria – thank God! – no BSE cases, and the debate on meat quality has actually become quite silent in the last few weeks. I say it again: It has rightly become silent because there have been no such cases in us. But I still remember very well when, in this House, we did not even discuss BSE, performance promoters and other horrors a year ago. The debate is now over, but the problems remain. Every month, new cases of BSE and scrapie are reported from different European countries, but for headlines, cattle madness is obviously not good enough, because in the UK, still and quietly the precautions are loosened, and beef from Northern Ireland continues to end up on the counties of European consumers. Now I come back to the situation in Austria. Austria has been spared from BSE cases by its veterinary and food controls and precautions. With today's novel on the Food Act and the introduction of mandatory beef registration and beef labelling, the safety of beef users will be further enhanced. I consider this safety to be extremely important to the consumer and also important to the producers, the farmers who have, after all, suffered enormous setbacks. There has also been a completely different behaviour of consumers in the meat sector, and the beef market has not yet recovered. That is why I think these confidence-building measures are so important. It must be understandable in the future, from which cow, from which stable the schnitzel we have on the Sunday table. In my opinion, therefore, the more stringent reporting requirements are not a shock, although I am aware that they require an increased effort, especially for producers. But I think that this complete control is essential. It represents an economic safeguard for meat producers, and it means to the consumer that level of trust-building safeguards, which is simply necessary to ensure that beef is eaten in the future. In fact, if a case of disease occurs in cattle, it is not the case, as in other European countries, that thousands of cattle should be slaughtered in a preventive manner, but that the stocks concerned can be specifically separated, that the packages concerned can be re-ordered from the cases of the individual shops. If it is not yet excluded to 100 percent that the delicate Tyrolean almkalb is in fact a Dutch industrial calf, then rigorous labelling rules related to sensitive penalties – and I think this is true – will de facto make such a "roostery" impossible. That consumers want to be comprehensible in the food sector has impressively confirmed the positive echo on the labelling already carried out by some food chains – however, voluntarily and without a legal basis. For me, therefore, this law is in any case an essential step towards more product-truth in the food sector, and I am convinced that we must continue this path consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8435	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8456	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to say that we liberals agree with the present food law as well as with the beef labelling law. My behaviour in the Committee is justified by this. It has never referred to the content, but only to the procedure of the short-term introduction of the supplements, which did not allow us to carry out a detailed review, and therefore I did not give my assent to the Committee. We'll catch up with this one today. It is clear to us that Community regulations in the field of food monitoring must apply directly and that the provisions relating to the powers of monitoring and enforcement and administrative penalties should be amended. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Maier.]] The fact that the central federal administration of the law is with the national leaders and only in rare cases with the Minister is applicable EU law and also useful because on-the-spot surveillance is better guaranteed than if it is assumed by the Federal Government. On the increases in penalties which have been raised for the first time since 1975, I would like to say that it would certainly be necessary to carry out regular systematic checks. I think that would be more important than just saying high penalties. Over-punishment can be particularly dangerous to smaller businesses, while large companies and trade chains can more easily count the possible penalty amounts in the pricing of the products in advance than small businesses. In our view, therefore, controls should be based more on the quantity of goods overturned than on fixed dimensions of punishment. In the self-employed proposal of the two government parties, which deals with the introduction of a system for the labelling and registration of bovine animals and the labelling of beef and veal products, I see an essential new step towards product truth in the sense of genuine consumer protection. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Similarly, the fact that the labelling of meat from third countries or from other EU Member States provides a great deal of assistance to conscious consumers in the purchase of their daily goods. I also hope that these measures will help to prevent any abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to entrust the AMA with the future regulation of the performance tasks, I would like to say that there can be serious concerns. Because the exclusion of the AMA, which does not constitute a real privatisation, has taken control of Parliament, the proportion, but the political influence remains. In particular, respect for the professional work of the AMA acting persons remains a state moloch in which Raiffeisen, Farm Chamber and AMA act with interest and power. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that this too should be taken as an occasion, but to think again about whether Parliament's control would also be important in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the Veterinary Adjustment Act. This law also includes harmonising Austrians with EU provisions. A system is necessary in particular for border veterinary inspection fees, as only on this basis can the various EC regulations be applied in accordance with the constitution. We Liberals, too, see this as a necessity and have nothing to do with it. But what we want to deal with today – and I have already done so in committee – and what we cannot befriend in the future is the fact that the criminal conditions in the legislation of adaptation in the past – and it is to be expected that, if something does not happen soon, this will also be so in the future – has led to legal uncertainty. In this law, for example, the Ministry of Justice has expressed serious concerns regarding the terms of § 64, which were only partially resolved in the Government template. Criticism is directed against the fact that criminal provisions are too insecure because crime is not mentioned in detail, but refers only to the other rules and to EU law on a flat-rate basis. Moreover – and this is nothing new – the Constitutional Service has also filed its criticism and concerns here. Ladies and gentlemen! I admit, as I have admitted in the Committee, that this problem is a matter of principle which repeatedly arises in EU legislation on adaptation. It would have been possible, however, as proposed by the Ministry of Justice, § 63 para. 1 to extend and at least to mention the paragraphs that would produce criminal offences. I am convinced that this would lead the citizen out of a legal uncertainty and that simplification of access to justice would make sense for the citizen. It is not to be denied that, in an ever-increasing number of laws, reference is made to EU directives or EU regulations, without them being mentioned in detail. This is also done in criminal matters, and this leads to a special legal uncertainty, and I do not think it is a target. To be expected from the citizen not only to read and understand the Austrian law in question, but also to remove and study all the relevant EU regulations and directives, is certainly not reasonable and therefore remains only a wishful proposal. In the case of the ignorance existing in this context to require criminal sanctions when regulations or directives are disregarded, it is therefore considered to be questionable, is not only foreign to the world, but also does not comply with the constitutional requirement. It is therefore our understanding, according to the lawgiver's task to make clear to the standard addressees the injustice content of his actions or omissions. We therefore propose as a solution to oblige the authorities to define in detail either the penalties in question or the paragraphs whose violation should lead to punishment. If the law refers only to EU law on a flat-rate basis and inadvertently, we believe that a regulatory authority should be established which authorises infringements of expressly stated provisions of an EU law to be declared administrative infringements. We therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask all of you to join this request, because it is a target and, in the future, it is intended to prevent the legal uncertainty that exists among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8571	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schuster is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8595	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the three reports of the Committee on Health give us the opportunity to discuss important issues of content that affect us every day, namely shopping, cooking and the health of citizens. These three laws, the Food Law, the Labelling Act and the EU Veterinary Act, were also the subject of intensive discussions in the last Health Committee. High house! Why did this beef-labelling law come to be? – This question is easy to answer. Of course, the BSE crisis was responsible. One is very different about what one actually understands from the target under this labelling. High house! The traceability of beef information is important at the time of sale. It is important that every housewife and every shopping man know where this piece of meat actually comes from, where the beef was born, measured and slaughtered. That ensures this beef-labelling law. High house! Who are the competent authorities? – These are the Federal Chancellery and the AMA. We know that this law was passed on to the 1st century. April this year comes into force, but we still need to discuss who is actually affected by this labelling. Any operator or organisation concerned shall provide information on the origin, quality characteristics or conditions of production to the consumer on fresh, chilled and frozen beef and on fascized beef. We have a very high standard of food and drink culture in Austria. Food and drink are of above-average importance in the life-style of the Austrians. The quantitative supply of food to the population has been sufficiently assured in Austria for some time, but demand for high-quality food is constantly increasing. Here I can give a very good witness to the suppliers, on the one hand to those who work in agriculture, on the other hand to those who come from the gastronomy. High house! In Austria, we generate 265 billion schilling in value added across the food sector, which is about 12 percent of the annual gross domestic product. Food control in Austria, which is of very high importance due to liberalisation, can be considered to be very precise in international comparison. High house! If consumers are asked about the criteria that make up the quality of food for them, they mention three points: Point one is the freshness, point two is the origin of the food, point three is the naturality or non-contact of these foods. High house! Who is ultimately responsible for this? Who controls whether these laws adopted by us in the House are also complied with? – There are 260 food control bodies in this respect, and these bring it to 40 000 to 50,000 different samples a year. This means that such a food organ, such a person, is responsible for about 1,000 farms. Our chairman in the Committee on Health, which will also take the floor on this item on the agenda, has the following subject: Health, danger to health by imported animals et cetera, the press has been working for years. I quote from the 19th Vienna newspaper. 4. 1996: "Freiheitlichesprecher und Creutzfeldt-Jakob-Syndrome – Pumbergers, Versichtungsfall"". Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pumberger's report shows the problem and, when it comes to showing this problem, the following statement is made: in Austria, at least in the past – I quote again – attempts have been made to cover up the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. High house! What does this mean for consumers and for citizens? . A committee chairman, who is a self-practicing doctor and parish doctor of an Innviertler municipality, puts the suspicion in the room that the institutions and the competent authorities of the Republic of Austria are at least always trying to cover up this problem, namely BSE, the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. [[Abg. Murauer: Incredible!]] What does that mean? – A doctor, a politician, should take fear and fear and not spread and sow like a sower that goes over the fields. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What kind of parliamentarian is this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's bad renunciation! We'll deliver it right away!]] High house! This Chairman of the Health Committee, of course, has as a doctor on this subject... – This Chairman of the Health Committee is the Free Member Dr. Alois Pumberger. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who is the chairman?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Who is the chairman?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should already know this as a clubman of the ÖVP!]] [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This honourable Member has also made very specific statements here in the House on this subject. I can do so from his speech of the 16th century. A meeting of the XX. Citing GP Pumberger says to a survey in the UK: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] That must give you some thought: Three out of four British people already believe that their government is hiding. If one were to make such a survey in Europe, three out of four Europeans would probably think that the European Commission is hiding. However, 40 out of 40 Members of the Liberal Party believe that the Austrian Federal Government too is impoverished and concealed. – End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, the consumers and producers in Austria have confidence in legislation – that is very important – and I am convinced that they also have confidence in a federal government that makes good laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8722	Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8792	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! There is no doubt that today we are talking about food, today we are talking about health care, today we are talking about building trust, today we are talking about understanding the way products are going from producer to consumer. In this context, it is also about adapting to the EU, to the European Community, which is primarily concerned with consumer protection in terms of information, the reduction of consumers. In particular, two elements of the laws to be adopted now go in the direction of more information, more information on what the product is, where it comes from, under what conditions it has been created. That is why we agree with both the food law and the beef labelling system. There is no doubt that this is progress, although there is a large manco in the room: There are often too few organs, too few officials in charge of controlling what is praiseworthy of the product. Who controls whether that is actually being observed, what is promised? – These laws are so good, as good as their enforcement is, and enforcement stands and falls with control. My previous speaker pointed out the problem of the need for an official to monitor more than a thousand establishments in Austria. It's a human undersupply. Mrs. Minister! I have also made a request to you, which you have answered very correctly, but which has also shown that you feel it necessary for this area of control to be increased both financially and in terms of personnel, especially in view of the fact that we have been delivered to an ever larger market in goods, and therefore, in order to protect consumers, the state-guaranteed control must function. It does nothing if we have very good or the best laws across the EU if their enforcement, implementation is not guaranteed. That is why I would ask you to agree to these two regulations. Strengthen control! Get up! See that – this is just one detail on the edge – the problems of lack of cooling chains in various meat products in the grocery stores are also diminishing. Every summer – recurring as the Amen in prayer – there are concerns by the Food Protection Police that cold chains are interrupted and therefore meat quality defects, especially in wholesale markets, occur in supermarkets. Nor does it help to label exactly where this beef comes from, which process it has gone through, when there are defects in these cooling processes and therefore bad goods are in the shelves. Secondly, the Veterinary Adjustment Act. Here I must join the criticism of my previous speakers. We will not agree to this proposal because of the shortcomings that have been listed before. It is a problem with the rule of law, it is an EU adaptation that stands on slightly toned legs – Mrs. Motter has already done so – and it is also a levelling of consumer protection, because animal disease is being harmonised downwards. We had better standards in Austria, which are now being watered down. An example has already been mentioned, and the temperature has been set in heating food residues to unfavorable health precautions. We no longer have the required 133 degrees, but are far below 100 degrees. – This is just a small example. So it will definitely be a step backwards. In spite of BSE crisis et cetera, we are not able to ensure appropriate precautions in accordance with the standards used to date, especially in the case of animal diseases, and it is therefore not responsible for accepting this proposal. It should not only be revised for constitutional reasons, but also for substantial reasons – especially in the sense of improved and enhanced consumer protection. What the two first-mentioned laws, the food law and the beef-labelling law offer positive is that which is negative. In conclusion, I can only say that two steps forward and one back are not enough for a good consumer protection policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8843	Furthermore, Mr Mag. Mag. Mayer to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8864	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing three areas relating to consumer protection, namely the Food Law Novelle, the so-called beef labelling law and the Veterinary Adjustment Act. I am not of the opinion of my predecessor that this will bring about poor consumer protection. As one of those concerned, as one of the employees in a consumer consultation, I can only support and underline these initiatives of the Federal Government. Let me comment briefly on the Food Act. This draft corresponds to the criticism expressed by the federal states. The regulations are now expressly mentioned in order to be carried out by the Federal Chancellery for the approval, authorisation, prohibition or application procedures. The eight EU regulations to be implemented under this federal law are explicitly mentioned by the head of state. It has also been in line with an old concern of the consumer protectionists in Austria that the penalties in this field, which have not been increased since 1975, are now increased to the maximum penalty of 100 000 s. I do not want to hide here that I would like to have a principle discussion on whether judicial penalties are necessary in the event of infringements of the food law or administrative penalties. We will not be able to take this issue off today, but I think that such a discussion is necessary in order to ensure that enforcement is carried out with better weapons, as the proceedings are usually terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For much more important than the Food Law Novelle, I consider the beef labelling law, that is, the Federal Law on the Implementation of Title 2 of the Council Regulation of 21. On 14 April 1997 a system for the labelling and registration of bovine animals and for the labelling of beef and veal products was introduced. I would like to take a very brief look at Mr Salzl's comments. He meant that this proposal did not correspond to his ideas. He thinks only microchips would be able to come here to a clear system. . I am right, but there are currently only experimental programmes at European level. I would remind you of the attempt made in Spain at 3,000 sheep and in Holland in about 1,000 calves. The aim of these large-scale experiments is to identify the form in which this label is possible by microchips. . It may be easy for the European Union to make a decision in this area in a few years' time. Very briefly to Mrs. Mother. It has complained that AMA has been entrusted with the implementation of this law. I think this makes sense for economic reasons. Mrs. Mother! After all, they have confused two things: The AMA is not responsible for control. Let me say this quite clearly: For the control of this law, the food organs remain in accordance with § 35 para. 1 Food law responsible. This means that AMA is not responsible for the safety of these foods, but continues to be responsible for the market offices and the food police in the federal states. It is a need for me to emphasize this explicitly. However, it is crucial - I am right for my previous speaker - that the labelling rules should also be implemented and controlled accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Austria we have a depressing labelling morale in trade and with farmers. Let me say that with all clarity! We tried last week to review the labelling system in some areas. We have adopted a small regulation, the quality-class regulation for potatoes. In Salzburg, 97 percent of the samples purchased were not marked in conformity with the law, and in almost all markets significant deficiencies were identified, and this concerned trade as well as farmers, including organic farmers. I can remind you of the debate about a year ago when it was about the question of the labelling of eggs, when it was also very clear that it was manipulated. What I miss today is the consumer protection aspect of the Freedom Party. It is always stressed by the liberals how necessary information is, but today I am missing this contribution, Mr Pumberger. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely important for consumers to obtain appropriate information on price, quality and origin. According to a study by the Chamber of Workers Salzburg, 70 percent of Austrians require the corresponding designations of origin. They orient their purchase decision on the indication of origin, and only then follow the price and quality. It is precisely for this reason that it is necessary to give confidence in the use of trust-building measures so that consumers can rely on the label and, as informed consumers, make their purchase decision. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It should be in all our interest to strengthen the Austrian labelling morale. At the same time, however, it must also be our concern to evaluate control in such a way that consumers can rely on the provisions of material law, on compliance with these regulations. The informed consumer, ladies and gentlemen, is entitled to appropriate information. With the beef-labelling law we create the prerequisites. My appeal applies to dealers and agriculture: Create You will have this requirement, and the Austrian consumers will thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8932	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e8953	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our Austrian cuisine is world famous. It is characterized by a variety and special regional flavors – also in the ingredients. Unfortunately – ladies and gentlemen, you have all eaten or not eaten at noon – unfortunately, we are now on our way to EU unity. Because with this new EU adaptation law, we are given both the ingredients and the compositions of the individual foods, for example, the freshness of the butter, for example the cocoa content of the chocolate. One could easily say that this is just a gourmet theme, that is only the gourmets. What seems to me, however, is that the EU's values of contamination are also binding. You know, contamination values are such an unintended contamination of food. If you read the EU-wide food scandals in recent months, you can say that one of the appetites, hunger and also health pass away: medicines in meat and fish; potential health risks; Report: Legal and illegal use is increasing. Or: Miracle foods are not controlled enough for side effects. – Now there is a miracle margarine in Finland, which has become a salesman, you just don’t know exactly what is in it. Infectious diseases caused by contaminated foods are on the rise worldwide. Or: Food scandal revealed: 1 000 dubious containers seized. And so on. The EU also disagrees on the maximum levels for pesticide residues in food. These are loud headlines that let us go of hunger and appetite. We in Austria have a good, accurate and well-appointed food law, as Mr Schuster has said in his speech. Let us at least draw up our national scope, ladies and gentlemen, and let us not take over again as a favourite student the EU Directive 1 : 1! Still, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian flag is blowing over our Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9001	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9023	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The decision-making of the Food Act, the beef labelling law and also the Veterinary Adjustment Act implements EU legislation for Austria. According to this law, the beef labeling is entrusted to the AMA as the most cost-effective solution. The AMA is already responsible for the labelling and registration of bovine animals. It is known that the Austrian farmers have had to live since 1. In January of this year, each newborn calf, within seven days, has a brand on both ears, and it is also reported within seven days of the AMA, a central body, to have very precise control from here. The EU directives require 1. In January 2000, beef is marked until the supermarket – that is, until the shelves. In this area, of course, if it is carried out from the same central office, there is much more effective control. The BSE disaster in England has greatly reduced beef consumption in Europe and, of course, beef prices have fallen by up to 25 percent. It was a disaster for European cattle farmers! Mr Salzl, in his speech, asked that the identification of the two-branded animals in each ear would not be sufficient, but that microchips should, as it were, be implanted under the skin. Mr Salzl! Has You figure this out? As a veterinarian, you know that a veterinarian does not approach a farm below 300 s. With 900 000 calves, this alone would be 270 million schilling for the veterinarians. Such burdens are not acceptable to farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: The loads from the AMA already?]] Another requirement was that all food waste below 130, 140 degrees of temperature and, so to speak, still be used under pressure. This is the food waste that was first suitable for human enjoyment. These must be boiled once they are fed to pigs. But these are not meat wastes, such as slaughter wastes, which have not been heated or which have been worrying before, but these are non-monetary meats, and this still has to be heated to 100 degrees in order to be able to feed them at all. I do not think that we should propose additional gains in this area. The debate among the liberal farmers goes exactly in the other direction. On the other hand, they protest that the calves are marked with marks. On the other hand, the Members of this House are calling for microchips to be operated on. Mr Schuster has already mentioned: Mr Pumberger said at the height of the BSE disaster in England that there had already been cases in Austria that would have been concealed. It has, of course, contributed to additional uncertainty and also to additional damage in this area. We hope that this decision-making process will restore consumer confidence due to a complete control. In the future, a sham will be delivered to the shelf with the meat, so that it can be actually understood where this animal is born, where it is ground, where it has been slaughtered and where it has been processed. We hope to restore consumer confidence in beef.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9066	Next word: Mrs Dr Gredler, who is not in the hall, has lost her speech. – Then the next word: Mrs Reitsamer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9088	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we have heard several times that Austria has one of the best food laws, Mrs Povysil speaks of an EU unit size. It says that we are implementing 1 : 1 EU directives. – We are very useful for our national playgrounds. That is proof of this good food law, which we are improving again today. It is also to be welcomed that beef labelling is finally being labeled. The Austrian population is particularly sensitive – legitimate – when it comes to the application of genetic engineering. At BSE it was also relatively sensitive, but thanks to the good response in Austria, there has not been any BSE cases. Otherwise, as I have to say, we are not so critical of food. We weigh ourselves safely and do not pay particular attention to what we eat. We enjoy foreign food abroad and do not think at all about what we are finally talking about when it comes to foreign food. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite strict laws, it always occurs that samples are drawn that are bad that are worrying. Mrs. Dr. Moser has said that most of the time this is about interrupting the cooling chain. That's right. More control was required. Nevertheless, if you say that every summer some samples appear to be conspicuous, not so badly ordered to control us. The increase in penalties has also been mentioned. It is true that large corporations are unfortunately still paying these higher penalties from the post office. It becomes more important for the small near-suppliers. These are also much more cautious, which is naturally reflected in the competitive behaviour. Today's regulations are, in any case, more product safety. Ladies and gentlemen! We must rely on this product safety. I can tell you one thing: I've been on my way in the car recently and I've been following a very interesting radio show. It was said: "The soup lies." – A book was presented. I'll tell you: If I ever intend to make a diet again, I will buy this book, because then I certainly don't eat anything more. – It was discussed about industrial food production. It has been proved that, for example, when it comes to asparagus cream soup, the asparagus has the lowest share and that, for example, tastes can be used – I don't know why – for example. Helps Australian saw blades generate and so on and so on. Now we have an open market. We can only rely on labelling and think about it: Do we want this product, or do we not want it? In any case, it is crucial for us to take steps again today towards greater product and legal certainty. That is, I believe, the most crucial.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9139	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall give Mr Gaugg a call for an order, who has said that a former State Secretary at Post-AG is driving his business. Mr Pumberger has now been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9178	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Schuster rightly said, many years ago I pointed out the problem of BSE and the related Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease – long before the Europe-wide issue of the day, was a topic for months and brought billions of losses to European agriculture! I have practically gotten right on all points. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When no one has recognized the problem, I have pointed out the connection with human infection. I have also pointed out that we need a ban on imports. At that time we were not even with the EEA and could have imported an import ban into Austria to protect the peasant producers. But the ÖVP has taken action against it and has played the chance for the Austrian farmers. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As I have just received, Mr Schuster said today, because the labelling legislation has only come about because of the BSE crisis. That was with a merit of my years of struggle, because I am a longtime champion! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] Whoever does not understand this today, Mr Schuster, is in danger of being suspected of having BSE-prions in the brain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These three reports from the Committee on Health all have the objective of enabling the 'European stew'. This legislation has given us the opportunity to ensure in national alone the labelling, ensuring the quality of our food. We have to accept the "European stew" and have no possibility at all, because the implementation obligation under EU law exists that we in Austria, in order to protect Austrian consumers, conduct an independent health policy in food supply. I am sorry that we all have to eat from the "European stew". Mr Maier has already mentioned the checks carried out and has carried out that, according to a statistics, almost 37 per cent of food controls were not in conformity with legislation and that a high percentage, namely 40, 50, 60 per cent, of fish samples is corrupt. We no longer have the slightest opportunities to influence this Europe-wide market with all its escapades. Of course, there are also advantages, especially in economic terms, but in the qualitative field we will be sure if we cannot take national steps to ensure quality, we will have to lose out. I'm sorry. This also saddens Austrian consumers. But you will adopt these laws today, giving up a piece of independence in the national design of the quality of our food, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9244	As announced at 3 p.m., I interrupt the deliberations on negotiating points 9 to 11. Short debate on the reply to the question 3566/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9265	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the reply to the question 3566/AB by the Minister of the Interior. The written answer to the question has been distributed in the hall, so a reading by a writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. The first speaker may speak for a reason of 10 minutes. If a member of the government speaks, the speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. All other speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9300	Ladies and gentlemen! I sent a request to the Minister of the Interior on the subject of detention. And I must say that we already knew that there are the most serious problems in the execution of the impotent. But to what extent it is in carrying out the thrust and above it, we have only taken this answer from this question. Minister! We are very dismayed at the fact that, while some 1,000 strangers are arrested as temporary residents per month – from October 1997 to January 1998, it was a total of 5,100 strangers who have been pushed into custody – but have not been assured that the delay also works in practice. And that, I think, is really a scandal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have obviously enforced with your MEPs that there should also be reliefs in order to avoid the ques tions. However, they do not have statistics on how many migrant workers succeed in subjugating after these reliefs have been applied. You obviously don't care at all. We know very well that many of the strangers who are not being taken into custody, where the relief is applied, will not be postponed, but will somehow be submerged in Austria. – You just don't care! [[Abg. Grabner: Go! How can you say that?]] Minister! You promised that you would create places to push. In fact, you have not kept this promise, but because of lack of premises 170 strangers have been released from custody or not taken into custody at all. – Mr Grabner, you say that cannot be true; They're wondering. Look Why don't you take that? 170 persons, where there would have been a reason for the impotence, have been released again! Mr. Minister! You also list in your reply how many people had to be released because they had been freed: That was 929 strangers in four months. In Vienna alone, 444 people have freed themselves, 20 percent of all migrant workers. And something else I need to keep up with you, Minister: In Lower Austria, in Carinthia and in Tyrol, there is not even a statistics on how many migrant workers have been freed. This obviously doesn't interest anyone at all. And you still have the courage to answer one of our questions in November 1997: This is an unsatisfying situation – They are very happy to admit everything – the improvement of which is being worked on in my department. So I can confirm that you have not worked on it since September 1997! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the contrary. Their administration works so little that since that time there have been even more free-traded temporary workers. They're really the biggest ministers of announcement. I'll tell you again and again. You do make a sweet child everywhere by admitting the abuses, you promise changes, but in reality you will not do anything at all, Mr Minister. It is similar with regard to the detention grounds. In the answer to the question you say that you will spend 160 million schillings for drawers. You don't even start with a push-in prison, but if you continue so that you allow pressure, then you don't need any more push-rooms and we can save the 160 million schilling. But what maladministration we have in Austria and how these will strengthen, I would rather not know, Mr. Minister. You know, the Caritas are happy about these press-frees, they probably also look forward to the greens. But, Minister, you are not a representative of the Caritas or of "SOS fellow human beings", but you are the Minister of the Interior of this Republic. And as Minister of the Interior, you must also ensure that the legal order in Austria becomes a breakthrough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There has already been an organized press in Vorarlberg. There, in a number of ways, the objectors went into hunger strike and were subsequently released. They said very proudly to the media: We've never been forced to force-fed objectors. They also said very proudly: Much more than 1,000 displaced persons have already been released after hunger strikes. Minister! I do not understand at all why you are still very proud of these 1,000. On the other hand, you say: The persons concerned are in a lawless state after dismissal. They must not move freely or earn a living, but they must not remain in custody for health reasons. [[Abg. Aumayr: What about them?]] What do you imagine about what's going to happen to these people? If you continue to resist the forced feeding of those who want to go free by means of hunger strike, you will create a state of the righteous in Austria. If this is your future perspective regarding these strangers, I must say, I can only very sorry you. And whether that corresponds to a human point of view, Mr Minister, I dare to doubt that too. I think you should break your head over these so-called rightless ones. How are they supposed to earn their living? It is quite clear that they can easily go to crime – and that is what you want to promote! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would very much like to say that if I did not do so with a call for order, you, Mr Minister, fear the food that is being discussed, how the devil fears the water of consecration. And I'd like to know why. Why are you so afraid of forced nutrition? The Minister of Justice is also bound to forced nutrition if a prisoner wants to press himself freely. The Penal Enforcement Act clearly states: If a prisoner persistently refuses to eat food, he is forced to feed under the supervision of the doctors. And nothing else we want: the compulsive diet under the supervision of the doctors. If, recently, I heard this on television, a representative of the Caritas thinks that only because of a breach of administration should not be forced to feed, then I must say: Today it says that this is "only" an administrative violation, but tomorrow someone says, well, actually he's sitting "only" because of shoplifting, and the next morning someone says he's actually "only" for body injury, and there we can't force food. [[Abg. Leikam: A bully is not a penitentiary! That's the difference!]] So I think, with us and with you as the Minister of the Interior, it can only be considered as the only criterion that someone has violated our legal order, and it does not matter whether an administrative law or any other law has been infringed. A person who disregards our laws in such a way should not be able to put himself in a position by means of free press without the use of sanctions. That is why I have no understanding at all, Mr Minister, that you are refusing to order a forced diet for foreigners who are to be detained and are to be found there until extradition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The population has no understanding of this either. And finally, Mr Minister, it is also a great injustice to those who are being pushed away, who do not go into hunger strike, who do not shudder around, who do not cause an excuse which is in keeping with our laws. It is an injustice to these people if one gives in to hunger strikers if one capitulates before them. Mr. Minister! You simply cannot close your eyes before this development, which is taking place here in Austria, namely that the free press has become a method of hunger strike. You have to make decisions, you can't make continuous announcements. Finally, give the green light to the fact that, in accordance with our proposal for an initiative, forced nutrition is also introduced in the Foreign Law! The EIA has already given its approval to this, and I am convinced that we will then achieve better conditions in the workplace.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9396	The next speaker is Mr Achs. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To the request of the Liberal Party for a question to be answered, it should be noted that Mrs Partik-Pablé once again had a sham debate today. Federal Minister Mag. Karl Schlögl has answered the written request addressed to him concerning the establishment of drawers in a comprehensive and correct manner. What we have heard from you today, Mrs Partik-Pablé, is a shadow discussion, especially as it is not about security policy aspects, but only about fear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The problem, however, is no big deal!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Do the Austrian pushers press freely or not?]] The fact is that in recent years everything has been done to provide a high level of security on the issue of illegal immigration. They wanted to know from the Minister of the Interior what initiatives are being taken to ensure that they are really taken into custody until the exit. It has been said to you quite clearly that foreigners who are legally resident in Austria can only be pushed away from the procedure if it is assumed that they want to withdraw from the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget that a offender is not a criminal prisoner! They do not recognise the efforts of the Federal Government, together with the federal states, to create additional detentions to the existing detentions. For example, in Vorarlberg 15, in Salzburg 68, in Eisenstadt 30 and in Vienna 103 additional detentions are set up, for which significant funds are naturally spent. As regards the creation of detention rooms in the area of the airport, a joint solution is sought for the federal states of Burgenland and Lower Austria. It is our primary goal to conclude with as many countries as possible, so that we have a rule that allows the deportation of those persons who cannot be granted legal residence in Austria due to our legal situation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They will be released before they are postponed! The Minister lets them all out!]] If you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, today are instigating the redundancies made because of the inability to hold, and if you are talking about freeing yourself by means of hunger strike, you must not forget the human dimension. I also believe that there is a need for action here, but in a different way than you understand and propose it. [[Abg. Aumayr: Which one, Mr. Colleague?]] If such actions occur, Mrs Colleague, then do not have to wait until the inability of detention has been brought about, but people should already be rescinded at an earlier date of medical control. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm right too!]] I mean that the place of a person who damages his body through a hunger strike is no longer in prison, but in the hospital. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For this you save the Austrians!]] So we should work together to create rules that allow the Minister of the Interior to do this. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We save on the really sick!]] Even if the liberals do not fail to insure the Austrian population and question the work of the security authorities, this does not correspond to the facts. The facts are: Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe, indeed the whole world, and this cannot change your polemics, ladies and gentlemen, either.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9543	The next speaker is Mr Platter. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9565	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The suspense problem and, of course, the possible accommodation of illegals and temporary workers is an area in which there are no doubt failures, maladministrations and urgent need for action. These failures, Mr Minister, are, in my opinion, a legacy of your predecessor One who has not been particularly concerned about this matter. It is now up to us to make up for missing people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to take part in the verbal attacks of the liberals, since I undoubtedly recognize an honest effort by Minister Schlögl to achieve improvements which have already been made in some federal states. However, it is still necessary to take a number of measures to tackle the unsatisfactory situation. To illustrate this unsatisfactory situation, I would like to present two examples which have taken place in recent times. A few months ago, security spokesperson Paul Kissand I made a visit to the Brenner. Dear Paul, you can remember that on that day, 25 illegals were accidentally arrested on the Brenner. These 25 illegals could initially only be housed in a garage without sanitary facilities because of the lack of premises. Thank God the mayor of a neighboring community has provided corresponding premises – decent spaces. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday I was with my colleague Rosemarie Bauer at an executive event in Hollabrunn. There we were told that only recently 33 illegals – Romanian gypsies – were arrested in Pulsdorf and housed in GreKo Drasenhofen for lack of premises. The service was damaged by these 33 Romanian gypsies, even Rigips walls were cut through. . I do not want to say that all the illegals are doing so, but it was a disastrous state, and the executives did not have it easily in this matter. Such an incident could have been prevented if storage rooms were available. – Minister! I believe that there is also a need for action here and that Greko's storage rooms should be built. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to repeat that there are errors in the area of reticulence, malaises and urgent need for action, and that we, the EIA, see no problem with forced nutrition. But, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, the establishment of detention prisons and the like is not enough. This problem must be addressed at the root. I consider cooperation to be particularly important in the context of organised crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think the proposal of our Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel is very useful that a European Convention against Towing Unusuals should be adopted. This proposal was presented by Foreign Minister Schüssel to the UN General Assembly in September 1997, and I assume that he will also be able to do so. Minister Schlögl! Her predecessor has not particularly stressed the whole problem of thrust. It is now important to deal with these failures urgently. We, the ÖVP, will, of course, support you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9640	The next speaker is Mr Franz Lafer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9664	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Achs, I would like to address your comments at the beginning of my speech. You have said that my colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has here staged a sham debate or a sham discussion, connected with fear-making or insecurity. – That is absolutely incorrect! [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Read the answer to the question! If you don't recognize their sense, I'm really sorry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The issue is that the legal order has been broken, and that is now a fact. In our opinion, there is no difference between criminal or administrative law, but a clear breach of the legal order. If you say, Mr. Achs, These strangers are not in prison, but in the hospital!, then that is in order according to the view of the liberals. Only: Who is the cost? – The costs are always borne by the taxpayer, the diligent and working Austrian. And that's not all right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do they want to do in the hospital?]] I would like to return to the content of this answer. It states that 8 230 foreigners were not legally held in the federal territory. – This is certainly only a fraction of those people who really stay in Austria. I repeat: just a fraction! It would be interesting to know how many illegal strangers live in Austria at all. [[Abg. Swimmling: But if we know, they're not illegal anymore!]] And here, Mr Schwamlein, about 5 159 of these strangers were put on a standstill. Of these, 4,858 were relocated. Then come as strange numbers as: 575 were released for incapacity. Of these 575, 354 were released for hunger strikes, but for example Lower Austria, Carinthia and Tyrol did not provide any information about it, so that this figure is certainly much higher. Minister! I believe that for the first time there have been blatant differences in the success of these hunger strikes. It would be to control why a hunger strike in Vienna or in the Burgenland so much, but in the western federal states so little success is timely. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because there the Caritas is so strong!]] In Tyrol there is no case of hunger strike, in Styria only one. There are also examples for this, and these can be explained as follows: In the Styria, cases are known that when Chinese are pushed into custody, they do not generally eat food. This process lasts about 20 to 22 days, then they come to medical care, and they are treated with infusions and so on – as is just planned – and then two more days into the hospital – and then they will be released. Federal Minister! Then they disappear, then they're not quantifiable anymore, then they're not here anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And this is a "fine debate", Mr. Achs?]] When they are picked up again, they try to carry out the same procedure again. There are blatant maladministrations and therefore also the discussion of the answer we have requested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has already pointed out the law of enforcement, in which § 69 contains the provision that offenders can be force-fed, but not strangers. [[Abg. Aumayr: (in the direction of the government parties) Because you don't see the problems, you have such results in the elections!]] Federal Minister! It was not until Saturday that the media could be found out again that you have announced that you have to reconsider this. I would like to draw your attention – and this is very interesting – to the fact that, according to Stenographic Protocol of the National Council meeting of 11 December 1988, In June 1997, an amendment made by the liberals concerning § 61, with the following paragraphs 5 to 7 and so on, was tabled so as to be supervised by migrant workers in order to be able to carry out a healthy and life- sustaining treatment. – This request of the Freemans to the Xenophobia Act was rejected. The following can be read: "I ask for a corresponding sign in the case of consent. – That's the minority. Rejected." That is to say, the liberals have been dealing with this issue for a long time. Federal Minister! I would ask you to take this issue seriously and deal with it. At the end of my speech, I should like to point out the following, Minister of State: ==References== The following information was available on March 1997: Interior Minister plans to build a push-in facility. ==References== October 1997: Federal Minister Schlögl: There is a need for action in the field of pushyness. 11th@item: inlistbox October 1997 in the newspaper "The press": Schlögl wants to reform provocatively. 30. October 1997: Budget, Committee on the Interior. Loop: As a result of illegal immigration, additional push points in eastern Austria are necessary. Or: Answer to question 2970/AB, reply 3566/AB. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Again and again it is spoken of making new things here and trying to fix laws. But there have been only announcements so far, Mr. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9792	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9814	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is obvious in itself. However, I believe that the debate has not yet dealt with the real legal basis. Mr Partik-Pablé! Mr Lammer! Of course, administrative violation is also a violation of the rule of law. But there are quite a number of different regimes. There is administrative criminal law and criminal law, the criminal law in the real sense. By the way, both of them belong to different ministers, not without reason. Criminal law is a matter of justice, and administrative criminal law is – in particular – matter of the Federal Minister for the Interior. And the separation of these two jurisdictions has more than one reason. She was not invented for the sake of the problem we are discussing today. There are just legal violations of different meanings. Therefore, the legal protection of the procedures is also different. It is all another difference whether one conflicts with the criminal law, is brought to justice and punished in the course of a proper court proceedings or whether an administrative criminal procedure is handled. There are great differences between them. The administrative criminal procedure, in particular Austrian law, certainly does not correspond to the judicial form. In Austria, therefore, we have administrative jurisdiction as an additional control. That is why I sincerely ask you: Do not throw criminal law and administrative criminal law into a pot in these areas – because you can do this well now – and do not wipe these limits! They're all important. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We will remember this for another discussion! - I'll do it as you please!]] They are also very essential in this case, and therefore the question of the relief of resources must be measured precisely on these control groups. Mrs Partik-Pablé! I say it again: Do not confuse these two terms, but investigate them Once in the present problem field, you have the so-called prison grounds! There are shoe workers of very different qualifications, which is what the Genesis of their thrust comes to. According to these criteria, there is a need to distinguish between these criteria. Wherever federal care is in question, it would be the first choice. Although it is a risk, the federal administrator – the quotation mark – may be "delinquent" to escape the access of the authorities at all. There's nothing left to stop him, you can't ask him anything more. He's submerged. This risk exists, of course, that's clear. But it is always the question of how to deal with people and how to access dignity and human rights. I mean, wherever vehemently results from a breach of administration or from asylum seekers, it is generally inappropriate. Exceptions will be possible, but generally, federal care is the first choice. If you choose this access to this problem, you will still have the subject on the table that the Federal Minister had to deal with here, but it will be quite different figures. That's important. - Point one. Point two: Federal Minister! In your reply to the question, I am now asking you, that you should have tried to develop a common arrangement with the Federal Minister for Justice, that these talks have failed, and that you will therefore present a legislative initiative in the coming months. . I mean, if you answer such a request, it would be useful if you were to outline the contents of such a legal initiative. I can't see this. I could not understand what you said in a 'ZiB 2' interview some time ago, namely that you are refusing forced nutrition, but, of course, a hunger striker must come to a hospital and nursing care. What's going to happen there? I therefore believe that you need to make more precise statements. I would like to make the Liberals' point of view quite clear: Federal care is first choice, forced nutrition is not a means of dealing with people who have sought refuge in Austria. And you have to distinguish according to the reason of the thrust: If they are offenders who are in suspense here before they are extradited, they will certainly be something different than asylum seekers who are in appeal proceedings. Mrs Partik-Pablé! They have literally quoted from the criminal code: "a prisoner refuses...". – In this way, you put the penitentiary with a prisoner, and I think that was more than revealing. However, we have already known that before this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9851	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9873	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to make it quite clear to you in advance that the Greens' position is clear: For us, forced nutrition and the discussion on possible forced nutrition would not be an issue if one were to deal with the real concern that the Greens have been representing for years and a demand that we have been making for years, namely the demand for a push-over-voluntary law. Mrs Partik-Pablé is right: In Austria, there is a legal basis for compulsorily feeding people in prison. But whether this, Mrs Partik-Pablé, is a means which corresponds to human dignity, I would very much question it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's not necessarily in the state!]] The greatest defect, however, refers to the fact that in the first group, the only thing that connects law enforcement officers and objectors is the word "häftling", which is right in the case of the first group, while the latter is also right in the case of the latter, but for quite other reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And breaking the rule of law!]] You – Mr Kier mentioned it earlier – have, of course, acted contrary to the rules of the Austrian legal system if they are illegally crossing the border. In doing so, someone sets an action that does not bring him into the right light, namely an injustice according to the circumstances of the Austrian legal order. Ladies and gentlemen! However, whether that is enough to be treated in Austria much worse than a criminal offence, namely, both the hygienic and sanitary conditions of this imprisonment and the psychological moment, is a question of human rights and human dignity. This is a question of how to see the right to humane treatment in principle, and there is basically no need for discussion with the Freedom Party. The position of the liberals when it comes to dealing with the rights and dignity of prisoners as such is well known. There, the terms "strengthers" and "shifters" are mixed freshly and piously, which is all the same with you. It is played on this piano of prejudices, on the piano of the demagogic repertoire, and thus suggests that the objectors are all total and per se criminals or rightbreakers – so that I myself remain exact in terminology – ladies and gentlemen. I know about Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl from many speech reports in the past, when he was not yet Minister of the Interior, but was sitting as a colleague in the benches of Members, that he is not like prisoners, that he is very interested in human dignity and respect for human rights also for prisoners – there are both categories in Austria – a good that we need to protect, and that we do not stand by the dignity of man. But what I miss from you – this has nothing to do with the liberals – it has nothing to do with the Polish, with the demagogic, with the partly justified, partly unwarranted accusations you are faced with here – is what you, as the Federal Minister in the sense of this attitude, this highly social democratic attitude, set out in executions which you leave as head of the department in practical politics. I don't see these positive traces. I do not see the use of the instrument of federal care where it would be necessary. On the contrary: I hear protests from all sides when it comes to dealing with asylum seekers or people who are in Austria but who do not have a formal right of residence here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9914	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9936	This goes down to the serious accusations raised by UNHCR, the Caritas and human rights organizations in Austria due to tragic events that...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9966	The speaking time is over. The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e9990	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I spoke very consciously at the end of this debate, because I wanted to wait for the speakers of the individual parliamentary groups, because, as expected, their contributions to the debate have made a very impressive statement on how different the evaluation of this question is in the individual parliamentary groups. While the one side in the house very vehemently expects me to act as Minister of the Interior with all the hardness and consequence of the free press through hunger strikes, the other side of the National Council sees the matter as such that the authority is already inhumane and acting. I believe that the truth is in the middle, and I would also like to explain briefly why I believe that we should try to find a means between these opinions and extreme points. In any case, I'm trying to go this middle way. Undisputed, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, there is a much stronger migration pressure on Austria and other European countries than it has been in recent years. It is also undisputed that most of the people who want to come to Austria are not people who are persecuted for political, religious or ethnic reasons, but economic refugees, or, perhaps more correctly and concretely, poverty refugees, i.e. people who have no perspective in their home countries, do not believe in the social, social or economic development there, but have the hope of finding a new, better home in Austria or in other European countries. It is also undisputed that in recent years many people in Austria have been taken up again, that many people in Austria have found a new home. Austria is within the European Union the country which has the second highest share of foreigners. According to Luxembourg, with 33 percent, Austria is the country with the second highest share of foreigners with 9 percent. Indisputable is the fact that there are more and more people coming to Austria from Eastern European countries, but above all from other parts of the world, who are being dragged to Austria. There are a variety of criminal organizations in the area of organised crime that make huge profits with the distress and misery of many people. That is why I believe that it must be our first and primary task to do everything we can to combat this illegal trafficking in human beings, to take action against illegal trafficking in human beings, to arrest the perpetrators and to punish them accordingly. In this respect, a legislative amendment was made last year, with towing being subject to significantly stricter penalties. I hope that these new, better criminal conditions will also be used by the courts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also clear – and I say this above all in the direction of the Green Group and in the direction of the Liberal Group – that it simply cannot be so that a person who is entering Austria illegally and who says only the word "Asyl" – now well formulated – automatically and without further examination receives the right of residence. And when I think that last year almost... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Who says that, Minister? Who's asking? Call me a name!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Stoisits!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: These are precepts!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: No human demands what you say!]] Of course, this is not directly required, but only indirectly. And if someone calls for one to abolish the impotent, then he is an illusionist, because without impotence it is not possible. Last year we have had 17 000 people who have tried to get into our country illegally and have been arrested. There are more than two thirds of these people from countries where human rights are in no way at all at risk, where there is no threat of persecution – but where there are, of course, major social abuses, I give you the right. Everyone must be aware that most of the people who come to Austria are economic refugees, and everyone must be aware that, if we come to Austria, we would have the opportunity to stay in Austria, we would have great social tensions. That is why we need to build a consistent system. That is why we have established the system at the border with our Eastern European neighbours, to those countries which are not members of the European Union, in order to prevent illegal entry as far as possible. That is why we have also introduced the stricter penalties against illegal migration. However, the fact is that we are doing everything we can to improve the conditions in which things are moving. And the accusation of the Freedom Party that I had slept in this regard and had not taken any action is not applicable. The opposite is the case. In the last few weeks and months there has been a large number of measures, and I would like to mention only three that seem important to me: Firstly, together with non-governmental organisations, we have introduced a social support programme for migrant workers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is not in the interest of the Austrians!]] I would like to say to Mrs Stoisits that only this fact shows that we have acted very well here and that we are trying to provide the best possible care for the people who are in suspense and, as a rule, are not prisoners, but have committed an administrative offence, and to provide the basis for them, if they are sent back again, that they can spend their time under good, decent conditions. This support by non-governmental organizations financed by the Ministry of the Interior has been available since 1. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year, and I assume that this has markedly improved the conditions in force in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Secondly, We have had a major deficit in the field of thrust. Our drawers have been transported across Austria. Many prisoners had to be released or could not be taken into custody because we did not have enough places. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Fine debate", Mr. Achs!]] We have therefore set up a central thrust management, which has led to some sort of removal of the "moving tourism" in Austria. At the same time, it has also succeeded in achieving the release of hardly any leftovers due to lack of places. And thirdly, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we have probably started to create additional places to move. In Vorarlberg, in Bludenz, 16 thrust sites were opened in March. In Eisenstadt, we are just trying to create 30 additional thrust sites. The start of construction has already taken place, I assume that the completion will take place in May. – I only point out that it is in Eisenstadt would have been much easier if the Freedom Party had not formed a local citizens' initiative against the establishment of resuscitation sites. I have ordered that the extension of the police prison in Salzburg be carried out. Construction starts in May of this year, the construction time will be about half a year, a three-quarters. This will give us about 66 additional push places. We're gonna build a push-in prison in Schwechat. But again, the Freedom Party was the one who acted vehemently against it, especially the parliamentarian Kabas from Vienna. He said we didn't need this pushing prison in Schwechat, it's enough if we were to build up the police prison in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because there are barracks!]] We are also doing this, the work has already begun and will be completed in 2001. In other words, we have tried to find new solutions both in terms of social, humanitarian and legal support for prisoners, and this has been with the involvement of non-governmental organisations since 1. It was started in January of this year. We have introduced a central thrust management and started the construction of additional thrust sites. The fact that there had only been announcements in this area is therefore not true. We have a major problem, which has become more and more acute over the last few weeks and months, and this is the fact that more and more migrant workers are pressing free because they are on hunger strike. This cannot be accepted in a rule of law, I give you the right to do so and we must act against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You said that already in September!]] – Yes, but we are doing something! On the other hand, there are two reasons why we must: First of all, because it is inhuman to simply put someone who has been hungry for a week, 14 days, on the street, to notify him and to tell him that you have to leave the country within 24 hours. That's inhuman, that's not possible. Secondly, it cannot be accepted by the rule of law if we try to establish at the border a system that does not allow illegal migration, and then people who try to immigrate illegally, and are arrested, do not put back, but simply release it. That is why we want to put in place appropriate measures. I made contact with the Minister of Justice at the end of last year and tried to obtain legal assistance from the Ministry of Justice to ensure that, if they go into the hunger strike, they will be cared for by the judicial department. Unfortunately, this has been rejected, the Ministry of Justice cannot help. Therefore, we will now do the following: In the next few days, corresponding contracts will be concluded by our side with hospitals with the aim of ensuring that, if they enter the hunger strike and are no longer liable, they will not be released from detention, but will be delivered to appropriate hospitals and cared for there under medical supervision, but also guarded by executives. We believe that if we take this measure, this step, the number of displaced persons who want to press themselves freely through hunger strike will be significantly reduced, because then the goal of getting free will not be achieved. I consider this measure – and we are still considering whether this is possible without new legislation – to be far more successful and more sensible than to introduce a forced diet that, and that is what all doctors say, is not easily possible against the will of a prisoner. I believe that this path, which I have outlined to you here, is a real and good one, and I am convinced that, if we implement it in this way, he will make himself paid and will count in the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10131	No further words are available. The debate is closed. No applications have been submitted. Short debate on the reply to the question 3529/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10152	We shall therefore proceed next to a brief debate on the reply to the question 3529/AB. A distribution of the written answer to the question has been made so that a reading is not necessary. The same speaking times apply as before: for reasons 10 minutes, then 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Kammerlander. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. We have addressed a number of questions to various ministers of the Federal Government, to all those who, in our opinion, have been involved in the negotiations of this multilateral investment agreement to the extent that we have been able to pursue it or are concerned with it. We could discuss all the answers here, because all the answers are either nothing, or hardly anything, or rather misleading. For the beginning, we have first selected the German Chancellor's answer, who is the head of this Federal Government and the head of responsibility for these answers and also for a possible outcome of the negotiations. Mr State Secretary! I do not know to what extent you are involved or involved in these discussions and negotiations and to what extent you can actually express the position of the government here. In any event, the multilateral investment agreement serves to minimise the risks of cross-border investment, the unimpeded transfer of capital and means of production and the opening of markets. This last point alone – in order to address it only with one sentence – is particularly relevant in terms of development policy. And the Austrian chief negotiator has said quite clearly that the resistance of developing countries is very large and that most think emotionally and nationally and do not realize that it is necessary to introduce foreign investors as well. But it is not in the foreground whether foreign investors are left in the country or not, but other things are in the foreground. Before: The definition of investment is so broad that de facto everything is covered. It is not only about securities, property, banks, insurance, but also about intellectual property at the present negotiating stage. Although the French have entered a veto here, it is still about intellectual property. What is also very special about this agreement: There is the top-down agrement. That is, everything that is not listed as an exception falls in there. And this is the characteristic of this, which is different from what has been said in GATT and WTO: Here it is assumed that in principle everything falls in, and the few that do not fall in are just listed. Now to the answers that I would like to deal with in the first place. On the question of what is the official Austrian position on this contract, the Chancellor answers very, very marginally, that the Austrian Federal Government supports the efforts that this MAI brings, and then immediately proceeds to the effective dispute resolution mechanism. He calls this mechanism an effective one. This is one of the key points of this agreement, and for us one of the biggest criticisms, namely that it is possible for investors to sue States, and that there are no further possibilities for appeals, but in the future it is no longer possible for states to sue investors or to sue rights which are national rights in themselves. And here we are at the essential point: We believe that national rights are being removed. For us, it is already the question of whether we simply look forward to doing so if this dispute resolution mechanism alone eliminates Austrian rights. If this is realized in this way, it is certainly a question of the Austrian constitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And you know this, because in the answer to our question, which proposals have been made by the Austrian side, you are looking at exactly what you are talking about and say that there are reservations in some of the provisions, because they may, in some cases, affect the Austrian legislation. They put it this way: There are reservations with regard to some provisions in order to take account of the current Austrian legislation to a large extent. – Please, what is "wide"? Is it about keeping laws in the future, or not? It is a shame that Mr Klubobmann Khol is not here, who always speaks of the "Constitutional Arch". So if it is only more important that we keep the laws "wide" in the future, then this gives Parliament a completely new task and a completely new meaning, because then we could think of the legislative texts that we are discussing and adopting in the future, regardless of what could come about if we were to comply with the law only more "widely". In his reply, the Federal Chancellor writes: "widely." It is a question of keeping the legal situation "widely" that the law is "widely" respected. We will continue to pursue this question in the next few days, and we will also take further steps. We believe that the Constitutional Service should be used. In our opinion, it is important to examine the extent to which the Austrian Constitution is severely restricted by such agreements or individual passages are also put out of force. That is quite clear when you read this answer here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Something else, maybe a treat: Their concept of public and public debate. In this context, there are some answers that can be broken down on the tongue. To answer one of our questions, you will answer us with the reference to the internet homepage of the multilateral investment agreement. So this is not the concept of the public, for me, that, when it comes to large-scale transnational provisions with legislative force, both as citizens and citizens, we are referred to as politicians and politicians on the Internet homepage of those who have written the agreement and have significantly contributed to it. But not enough with it, you also answer in the back, that the documents already prepared – I can only add in parentheses: Please, which one?, because we have no – a deep discussion in public, with the social partners – and then follow in your reply only nice words. If you are serious about this, please be quick to accept what you have worked out so far! Make a public inquiry on what you are negotiating and what order, but above all do everything you have negotiated so far, all the results and your position, especially those of the Federal Government, parliamentary treatment and the parliamentary public! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You point out in your reply that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation is involved in the negotiations. It seems to you that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has a negative, critical attitude to this investment agreement, at least as far as I can read it from the magazine "Work and Economics". This is, by the way, an interesting constellation if you read the German Chancellor's answer and other Social Democratic ministers' answer to the question concerning this agreement. But not enough to say that the ÖGB has been involved in the negotiations since the beginning of 1997. But the Austrian Federal Government has been negotiating this agreement in the OECD since 1995. Since 1997, the ÖGB has been involved. This is all you understand from the Federal Government. But it goes on, and I could tell you for a long time what's going on here. You write in your reply that there should not be any discrimination between domestic and foreign investors, and that is a good idea. They do not seem to have considered that this list of investments, which are possible and included, can lead to serious political consequences. What to do If someone comes and founded private-law universities, insurance companies or hospitals, and legitimately and with appeal to the MAI demands the same legal status and the same funding and subsidies as we receive only public institutions that are still public institutions and not private institutions with fug and law? What to do For example, with your clientele in the civil service, if someone comes and creates a private insurance and says that he wants to have the same claims as he has in Austria, for example, only the BVA in terms of insurance? What do you do if there's this MAI? That's all down there, and you'd be quite stuck in the Bredouille and you'd look very well like you'd get out of there. They write in answer that this may lead to a restriction on the future scope of action of the Contracting Parties. – A little admission. It may already be that Austria is being restricted in its scope for action, because we are a party. Yes, it will eliminate national sovereignty, and it will reduce the political scope for action with this agreement to zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that the European Parliament has accepted a request from the Green Group and that all Austrian MEPs, with the exception of the liberal freshener, have agreed to this request. Please take an example to your EU Member, and once you have the opportunity to highlight what the Federal Government is negotiating here – in the light of the attitude of your EU delegates and the criticism that is being applied in a massive way! It is not acceptable that the answer is that this agreement should be completed by the end of 1998 without Parliament seeing or discussing it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10304	The Secretary of State has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10325	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on the allegations made here. Of course, the Constitutional Service is permanently operational. Of course, there is a permanent information from Parliament on this matter. After each round of negotiations, reports on the status of negotiations will be sent to Parliament's Directorate. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What? Where?]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] The draft contract is for insight in the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course, Parliament will also be concerned with this after the final negotiation of the entire Treaty. I can now refer briefly to the content of the Multilateral Agreement on Investment. The motive for opening negotiations to develop such an agreement lies in the importance of cross-border investment for the world economy, which has increased significantly in recent years. The volume of foreign direct investment rose from approximately $25 billion annually in 1973 to around $350 billion annually in 1996, reaching a higher growth rate than that of world trade in the same period. In contrast to purely trade relations, direct investment has the advantage of creating jobs in the respective countries of settlement. This also applies to Austria. In Austria, the investment of international companies has created numerous high-quality jobs and contributed to a significant transfer of technology to our country. The fear that the standards for environmental, labour and consumer protection would be affected by investment by foreign companies has not proved true in Austria. Conversely, more and more Austrian companies are investing abroad. They have a legitimate interest in finding, for their investments, calculable and stable framework conditions that bring about equal opportunities with local competitors and protection against expropriation. So far, some 1,700 bilateral investment protection agreements form the backbone of the international investment regime. However, this large number of agreements – new ones are added annually – does not contribute particularly to the clarity of investment. In addition, several multilateral agreements also include investment rules, which are far from uniform and apply either to individual regions or to certain sectors of the economy. The creation of a better framework for cross-border investment at multilateral level – the main objective of this agreement – would therefore be another essential prerequisite for increasing global prosperity. However, I also have great understanding of the concern underlying their urgent request today. I too believe that it cannot be the goal of democratic states to create systems that are solely aimed at the profit maximisation of some fewer corporations. It remains the responsibility of governments to secure social cohesion and enforce social justice, especially in a world increasingly marked by globalisation. In contrast to you, however, I believe that active action at international level is necessary. Multilateral agreements such as the MAI or the WTO agreements have exactly the opposite effect of those you suspect. Such agreements are not a free letter for multinational corporations but are binding on all market participants. This will prevent States competing for international mobile capital from becoming increasingly adaptable to labour, social and environmental standards. Austria, for example, is therefore committed to a massive ban on child labour and the restriction of trade union rights within the framework of the WTO. The MAI is sometimes attacked as anti-employee and anti-environmental. In this respect too, the opposite is the case. An important objective of the MAI negotiations is to ensure that the MAI does not limit the possibilities of the Parties to pursue an independent, non-discriminatory environmental and social policy and to comply with their obligations under international agreements in these areas. First analyses – for example those of the OECD Secretariat – conclude that this is the case. Agreements, which expressly clarify this, are in preparation. More: I am also proud that Austria, as the first country, has from the outset pressed for the adoption of binding environmental and social bans in order to prevent, in particular, environmental and social dumping. The majority of the parties to the negotiations have now joined in this opinion. If it prevails – and I am confident that it will prevail – the MAI will be the first multilateral economic agreement that contains such provisions at all. This would be an essential and welcome development of international economic law. The scope of the MAI's intellectual property rights and cultural industries is also the subject of negotiations. In particular, I should like to point out that France in the last Council of Ministers for Culture was required a general exception in the field of culture. Austria is also not interested in further liberalisation in the cultural field. At present, models are being developed to help bring about derogations. Now also a word on the impact of the proposed agreement on developing countries: The positive importance of investment for economic development not only from industry, but also from developing countries is far from undisputed and, for example, expressly stated in Agenda 21. Unfortunately, the efforts – also supported by Austria – to reach an international investment agreement under the WTO World Trade Organisation, which currently consists of 132 countries, have so far been unsuccessful, although many developing countries would also be interested in such an agreement. The MAI will therefore also be open to non-OECD members, of course only if they want to. Some countries have expressed their interest, and five of them, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Hong Kong and Slovakia, have participated in the negotiations since last year. Provisions addressing the special needs of less developed MAI members are also in preparation. Finally, I can assure you that the environmental, social and development components of the agreement will also represent a major concern of the Austrian negotiating team in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10371	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. The next item is the speech by Mr Dietachmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10395	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been numerous parliamentary questions on this subject. I do not see it as black as Mrs Kammerlander, but I must tell you that, Mr State Secretary, I do not see it as simple as you have just presented it. [[In the case of the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens, and of the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the ……]] This multilateral agreement on investment – in short MAI – is an investment protection agreement aimed at ensuring the liberalisation and protection of investors. It is true that the central objective of this agreement is not to treat foreign investors worse than domestic investors or those from third countries with the most favoured clause. It is also intended to create framework conditions which increase legal certainty in international economic life. This is of course a particularly important aspect in today's globalised economy. Among other things, transparency provisions for the publication of investment-related laws as well as protection against indemnification-free expropriations and legal transfers of payments to and from the host country. This is all right, but in the course of the negotiations on this contract, Austrian concerns have been deposited from the beginning and rightly, ladies and gentlemen. These concerns do not come from about. For more than two years, this contract has been negotiated in the association of the industrialized countries – the OECD. Multinational enterprises are partially equalised by national states, and they are entitled to sue States to comply with MAI provisions and claim compensation for damages. The States also undertake to follow the ruling of the MAI Arbitration Court, which does not come about. It is therefore rightly criticised that negotiations have so far taken place far away from all the public. This is something I must strongly endorse. In the terms "investor" and "investments" – which my previous speaker has already mentioned – everything is taken into account, from intellectual property from land and land to indirect investment. It covers almost the entire economy of a country. Therefore, I believe that there are certain reservations against this agreement, and a particular concern is also justified: It is also a question of limiting the scope for action of the State. The provisions of standstill and withdrawal are provided for. A ban on future laws and provisions for withdrawal would mean that those laws that now exist could also be repealed retroactively. A central aspect of the MAI is the creation of an arbitration court. Multinational companies are thus given the opportunity – you really have to look at it carefully – to sue States for compliance with these liberal MAI provisions or claim damages. The States undertake to comply with this arbitrational judgment. Do you know what it would mean if we took over all this unverified? – representatives of the American industry – which I believe is the leader of this opinion – welcomed the possibility of the action of national states, as this, as they think, "has an educational effect on parliaments". Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I need to carry this out further. We need to be very careful. Originally, national parliaments should ratify these Treaties in spring. Now it will certainly last until autumn. It is also difficult to note that this falls precisely within the period during which Austria holds the EU Presidency. From today's point of view, the EU Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will also have to deal with this issue. I therefore believe that it is very important to review this draft Treaty for all its effects, the impact on the working population and the impact on the natural basis of life, as well as on the protection of the regional environment. Above all, complaints rights should be included, which can be communicated to the negotiating committee, in favour of people, communities and states towards multinational undertakings. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Moreover, environmental and social behaviour should be examined.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10444	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10459	That is why, according to my conclusion, Mr President, SPÖ considers it desirable, in principle, to create appropriate international directives, but national rights and provisions should not be included among the wheels of multinational corporations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10489	The next item is the report by Mr Drinkl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10511	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can basically follow the remarks made by my predecessor. The multilateral investment agreement is a matter currently being negotiated within the OECD countries and not a final proposal. I would like to stress that the negotiations on this need to be very careful so that national interests do not come under the wheels. But I do not see it as negative as Mrs Kammerlander's, and I also think that the German Chancellor's replies are not misleading. Many of the questions you have asked at a time when the negotiations are under way – and are still on the rise, as we know, because the answers are not given more precisely by the United States, but also by France as well. However, I believe that at a time when the internationalisation of the economy is continuing as massively as it is today, Austria must also be interested in ensuring its investments abroad accordingly. I should like to remind you that Austrian companies have already invested 150 billion Schilling abroad. These companies are of course interested in the fact that their investments are not built on sand but that they have the opportunity to respond accordingly to changes. Austria has a small-structured economy in particular. In this respect, in particular, I agree in part with the concerns expressed by my predecessor that it is a question of ensuring, in particular, the small-structured economic operators acting as investors abroad. But we don't need to let big multis make rules about how we want to shape our own legal systems in the future. I am really proud of the Austrian negotiators under the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They have ensured that Austria as the first country has raised the question of excluding social dumping and environmental dumping. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How in Singapore!]] As you know, Mr Schweitzer, the majority of the participants in the negotiations have already moved on this course. It must be assumed that it will also come as we imagine it to be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not give Mrs Kammerlander the right to believe that this agreement must clearly lead to the exploitation of developing countries. On the other hand, it is the case: Foreign investment in developing countries means these opportunities and brings them jobs. Who else, if not international investors, should invest in these countries? These countries cannot even raise the necessary capital for this. I believe that one should not approach this matter unanimously, but with the appropriate elan and a lot of courage lead the negotiations on it. In my view, the involvement of all the competent bodies in Austria – all ministries, all the social partners, the trade union association – has led to the fact that Austria's negotiating position is clear and can also be successful. I believe that we should take advantage of this opportunity – with all the reservations that we have to make – so that the Austrian economy cannot at the end of the day be pushed to the wall by foreign capital. But I am confident that this will succeed and that our negotiation will be successful in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10554	The next item is the speech by Mr Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10576	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, I do not want to give my colleague Drinkl the right thing. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl:... give right on all points!]] I only recall the effects of the GATT Agreement on local agriculture. I do not think that this agreement has had a positive effect on this area. We can see where the small-structured, rural agriculture in Austria has developed in recent years. This is the first time that the Commission has adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the marketing of agricultural products and on the basis of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have already experienced similar negative effects through the WTO agreement. When the current highly respected Minister of Economic Affairs went to Singapore in order to participate in the WTO negotiations, we kindly asked him to draw attention to the problem of social and environmental standards in international production at all, thus creating a distortion of competition. But our highly praised Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner did not even come up there to express these concerns. This is how Austria participates in international negotiations. Austria will not be heard at all! Everything you read to us from a paper that comes from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs – from which we read a copy of this from which the Secretary of State reads – has only been seen by the rosarote Austrian glasses or, more precisely, by Dr. Schekulin, who has, by the way, understood it perfectly so far to lead these negotiations as a secret issue of command. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Mr State Secretary! It has been negotiated since 1995. Our party has a first official paper – Vienna, 9. March 1998 – that paper from which you have read your answers. That's the only official paper that came to us. We will still have to be very interested in what information has been given to Parliament about these negotiations and what information has then been passed on to the opposition parties. We have – with the exception of this paper of 9. March 1998, drawn with "Dr. Manfred Schekulin" – so far, nothing yet. That is why we depend on what we hear from international commentators who call this multilateral agreement a further step, with which multinational groups can make democratically elected governments into puppets. In general, they consider that environmental protection and workers' rights are further undermined and that the rule of transnational corporations replaces national sovereignty. Mr State Secretary! If this agreement is to be ratified in the autumn of this year, then it is high time that the opposition parties were once again fully informed of the Austrian negotiating position, of the way in which the Austrians can get involved in the negotiations, and of the final status of the negotiations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would only be possible for an appropriate public discussion to be held in Austria too, which you have so far obviously not been aware of. They have avoided informing the public. And those who avoid informing the public about negotiations will certainly not have been particularly successful. If you have achieved some success in the past in some way, you have repeatedly tried to deal with the media for weeks. That is why I believe you have failed to negotiate successfully at least until now. I therefore give you the good advice: Inform the public, inform the opposition parties! In any case, with our very correct line, we will be happy to support you with your wishes and their achievement. Mr State Secretary! Be fair with the opposition! Let us know what you have to do with negotiating documents, so that we can imagine for ourselves whether you are successful in the interests of Austria or not!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10632	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10654	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the crucial point that needs to be put out in this debate is that this is not, of course, about panic. No one here wants to speak the word about protectionism. In particular, Austria, with its small, open economy, is interested in the fact that there are agreements that protect investment abroad. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Bravo!]] But I would like to thank Mr Lukesch for his criticism when I am surprised to hear from Mr Wittmann that Parliament would have been reportedly informed on a permanent basis. The opposition parties have not received any information as always prepared. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Not at the coalition partner either!]] The comments of the Secretary-General of the WTO show that this is nothing less than the "Constitution of the United World Economy". The government groups are negotiating the constitution of the united world economy within the OECD, but it is not even worth having a debate here in the House. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I If you are aware of the answer to the urgent question raised by the Federal Chancellor, you will realize that he has objected to individual questions. Mr Dietachmayr has expressed concern at the fact that individual laws may have to be taken back. – You said that environmental dumping would not be possible. The answer to question 5 states, however, that the list of reservations made by the Austrian Federal Government is quite essential. So, as Mrs Kammerlander rightly mentioned earlier, everything is covered by this agreement, unless there is a reservation. This is a significant difference from GATT and WTO. Therefore, as the answer correctly presented, the list of Austrian reservations is very important. But this list cannot be found in the answer to the urgent question. That list was withdrawn from us. It would therefore be so important because the answers to questions 8 and 11 were explained by Mr Bundeskanzler that it is basically an increase in legal certainty in the cross-border economic life. He said that this could lead to a reduction in the future scope for action of the parties, including Austria. A little later, he said, in addition, it was not appropriate for the Parties to pursue independent policies to protect the environment, to comply with social standards, to protect health and to safeguard the interests of consumers. Mr Lukesch! If that is the case, I would like to add this list to the answer to the urgent question. It would be all you say here, sound and smoke, if you did not know where, in what form and with what formulation the Austrian Federal Government has applied for reservations. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The list is certainly an essential part!]] Yeah, but she's not there. Mr Wittmann said that it was only about minimum standards. I mean, minimum standards can't be bad. We have already heard, however, that these minimum standards can, in fact, lead to the limitation of national sovereignty in the definition of environmental policy and social standards. In the answer to questions 8, 17 and 19, we then learn that the MAI is, of course, not a free letter for multinational corporations, but only the mandatory minimum standards. – But the minimum standard is something that allows for better conditions in the language of our home. We understand, for example, that it must not be worse, but it must be much better, under minimum environmental standards. Deputies! If that is the case, then I do not understand what we still need exceptions, because if only we say that the whole of the environment and the whole social area cannot be pushed below a certain level, then that means that we can make stronger rules. If that were the case, then we would not need any derogation at all. Thus, the answer to the urgent question is full of contradictions. It is a matter of concern to both the SPÖ and a speaker of the SPÖ, namely Mr Dietachmayr, but also to Mr Drinkl of the ÖVP, who said there would be no environmental dumping. It is true that this answer to the urgent question raises more questions than it finally answers. It is also true that they have not kept us the essential list of reservations which have been claimed to have been notified to this agreement until today. We have therefore called on the Liberals to hold a survey in this House, in which we want to talk about social standards, environmental standards, but also about the necessary investment protection. We continue to maintain this demand. The information policy you are running, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, will mean that the good points of the MAI cannot be realized and that you may still be faced with problems that you yourself have not thought of. Bind the opposition! That's going to be Keep you from bad surprises because we can show you a lot of things now! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10729	The next item is Mrs Langthaler's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10750	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller, I hope you will speak with your group in the European Parliament, because the Liberal Group in the European Parliament has not voted in favour of the Green Report as the only political group. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: He's not as sharp as he was in the design!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Right!]] Unfortunately, too, Members of the European Parliament have not agreed to this report on the matter of expressing the concerns of the European Parliament. The Socialists and Conservatives in the European Parliament have taken into account the criticisms of the Greens, who have long been dealing with this MAI, in broad areas, Mr Wittmann State Secretary! I really didn't understand your statements. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you read through the report of the European Parliament, you could see that the legitimate concerns and, above all, the area of non-integration of the public, which my colleague, Mr Kammerlander, indicated at the outset, are more than just true. In concrete terms, the report, which was decided by a vast majority in the European Parliament only two weeks ago, states that the negotiations so far had been conducted under far-reaching exclusion from the public and also from national parliaments, although transparency and parliamentary control are crucial to the legitimacy of international agreements in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! This MAI, which is still very unknown in Austria, is really about a lot, and it is really true if the Director-General of the WTO speaks of a global economic constitution to be created. It must, and this is what this debate is supposed to allow today, be the aim of Parliament's active involvement in the negotiations. I do not understand my previous speaker from the ÖVP, who said that nothing has happened anyway, it is still being negotiated anyway. That is why we should not interfere or get upset either. This is precisely the meaning of this debate and the meaning of the negotiations in the European Parliament: Thank God there were discussions and also a report! . The aim of this debate is not only to influence the negotiations, but also to revise many of the criticism points. I would like to give you a specific example so that you can get an impression of what is contained in this package – much of it has already been said: You have to imagine that, according to this still up-to-date draft – and I have looked at the current draft at the Internet address given – it would of course be possible for an investor not only to have all legal certainty, which is legitimate, but also to be able to sue the State for compensation in the event of a change in the law, if, because of a legal change, it results in deterioration in his business action. - That's an absurd thing! The national parliaments and the European Parliament, too, are thus completely disillusioned to an extent that, as I believe, no one is aware of this concreteness at all. In addition to these incredible secret negotiations, which took place without the involvement of NGOs and, above all, without the involvement of national parliaments, there is a second crucial criticism which you could not resist, Secretary of State Wittmann: From the outset, only OECD governments have negotiated without the involvement of developing countries. The reason for this is always stated: There is a fear that too much pressure will be put on the developing countries, especially in the field of social and environmental standards. That is why the competences have been postponed from the WTO to the OECD level. Colleagues from the ÖVP! You can see from the NAFTA regulations in Mexico what kind of jobs were created there, namely, low-cost jobs at the Máquillias. That's exactly what we all do – hopefully! – do not want to, namely the exploitation of people to such an extent that there is in no way an increase in their social standard nor an improvement in resource use. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: This has nothing to do with it!]] In this debate, the issue of jobs has been repeatedly stressed, and Mr Wittmann, too, has pointed this out. The European Parliament's report also refers to this point and refers in particular to the fact that there are no documents at all in the field of job creation. On the other hand, uncontrolled relocations could also result in job losses. I would like to ask you, and in particular the Members of the Coalition Party, to finally intervene actively.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10814	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10830	The Members of the National Council should be actively involved in the negotiations! It's still time. We should finally become more self-confidence in international negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10860	There is no further statement on this point. No applications have been submitted, so I declare this debate to be over. Short debate on two requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10884	The next item is the short debate on the request by Mrs Povysil, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for reporting on the motion for a resolution 693/A (E) on medicinal products and medicinal products, the failure of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs to take part in the debate on 16 March. ==References== After the end of the debate, the vote on this request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. – The rules are the same, I don't need to repeat them. Mrs Povysil has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e10920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to tell you today an incredible and endless story – not a fairy tale, but an acribically well researched reality that has been demonstrated in all the details. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] A true crime, ladies and gentlemen, be careful! A true crime – already almost "Oscar" suspect – that shows to what machinations have come on the medicinal product sector on the back of sick people and which machinations continue to continue there. A script of the special class, ladies and gentlemen, supported by the main association, audited, betrayed and condemned by the Court of Auditors, tolerated by Mrs Hostash to this day's silence. Listen – and judge for yourself! The whole thing began in 1937, when a "reichslist" for healing was created. Since 1959, the Court of Auditors has urged that the prices of this "reich list" still in force be recalculated. In 1994, i.e. 35 years later, the main association tried to comply with this recommendation, but he did not, as it would be logical, make even the tendering of this catalogue of articles, but he gave it to a company named ARGE Orthopedics. The company ARGE Orthopedice was located under the private address of a Dr. Ivanic, a relative of the former Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Nicer: What's wrong!]] This ARGE has now produced a catalogue, which only led to a product inclusion in this catalogue under the condition of massive advance payment of several thousand schillings, i.e. almost protected payments, by subcontractors. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Very bad story!]] Despite the most massive complaints of the companies against this procedure, the main association did not take any action and simply forwarded these offers to it to the ARGE. These abuses – insider transactions, protection payments, constantly rising expenditure on cures – have already been condemned here in Parliament about a year and a half ago. You can certainly remember our questions, including our urgent questions, and perhaps also our motion for a resolution, which eventually led to a special examination of the Court of Auditors' conduct of social security. This Court of Auditors report, ladies and gentlemen, has now given us full meaning. This was criticised: firstly, the unclear legal status of the ARGEs, second, the unclear powers of the ARGEs to represent them, the unexplained liability for the high contributions that companies had to pay. The report stated that it was impossible to determine the legal form of the ARGE at all. It was "not acceptable" – according to the Court of Auditors – that the main association allowed the monopoly of the ARGEs at all, and it was incomprehensible to him that the main association did not involve several other social security institutions more closely in the pricing process. This led to a surplus yield for bandagists in Vienna of 3.3 million schilling – and this at the expense of the contributors – in Upper Austria, to a surplus yield of about 1 million schilling. According to the Court of Auditors, this is not our criticism! – the re-regulation of tariffs to social security providers a saving, the bandagists higher proceeds – and all this at the expense of the insured. So much for the audit of the Court of Auditors, and you will have to give me the right to call for action. But it spreads a boundless silence around this Court of Auditors report, a silence, as if there were no Court of Auditors, as if the Court of Auditors were an institution which is not at all known to you. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== However, the contract is now terminated on the basis of the already unknown unclear legal form, so that the contract is terminated. On July 1, 1998, patients were threatened with a state of inconsistency and had to pre-finance all the aid. [[Abg. That's snow from yesterday!]] In January 1998, the President of the Court of Auditors himself welcomed the fact that both the main association and the woman minister have still not delivered an opinion on the matter, although the audit report has been published since 1. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Nicer: All snow from yesterday!]] In the meantime, the sharper drive on the back of the patients continues funny and unhindered, as companies intertwined with the ARGE Orthopedics continue to be able to increase their monopoly at the expense of better care for the patient and at the expense of qualified jobs. For example, an additional agreement was terminated, so that patients – and these are very poor patients, those who have breast cancer – who need breast prostheses, now receive only more than 80 percent of the rate as bitters. – These are incredible transactions that continue despite the Court of Auditors’ audit! For example, the Wiener Gebietskrankenkassa of the company Bstand, which was not a best bidder, granted an overall contract for walking and healing, so that in Vienna there are no longer 40, but only ten places left, and so on. I could cite countless examples of this, but that would be the framework of my speech. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the Nuremberger who said everything would be fixed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For years there has been an existing list of reliefs in Germany with detailed application and delivery criteria, which can easily be obtained. We have it, you can see it with us at any time. Why was this pattern not used? Even the Court of Auditors – not us! – advises the main association not to perceive the interests of the insured. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And what does the Feurstein say about it...?]] The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, can only be the following: The self-management of the main association is not intended to protect the insured from politics but to protect the main association from control. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The main association is the true sponsor of the two-class medicine in this country. In spite of several written requests from the President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Hostasch has not yet delivered an opinion on the accusations, although she has submitted the Court of Auditors' audit report since 12. ==References====External links== There are incredible agreements in this country, ladies and gentlemen. – you nod, Mr Klubobmann; [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] You know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He nods knowingly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We've heard that many times! It's about the Kristen family...!]] There is an incredible repulsion of the control organs! We call on the Federal Ministers to give an immediate opinion on these incidents, and, as silence seems to continue to take place, give it a period of time not later than 16. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11085	The next item is the speech by Mrs Reitsamer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am just sorry about Mrs Povysil that she has been involved in such unscrupulous arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Who's over your seriality?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I have to say this with all the clarity, and I will explain it immediately. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She just quoted the Court of Auditors! You are saying that the Court of Auditors is insidious! The Court of Auditors is on its own, says Mrs Reitsamer. Listen! Listen!]] Now, Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. She said she'd been really researching. But if she has researched so closely, why does she make Dr. Ivanic a "relative" of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky? I ask you this in all clarity! Why does she speak of a contract, of an overall contract? One of these is – contrary to your claim! – never realized. Only 21 insurance companies have concluded contracts with bandagists on the basis of the preliminary work done by the main association. And that's something completely different. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is part of Mrs Hostasch's opinion to the Court of Auditors.]] So much for the "exact research", Dr. Ofner. These are seven sides of the cast in the direction of the main association and the Federal Minister. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] On the area of relief and aid in total: In the only study known to the main association, Austria ranks 11th in comparison to 15 European countries with the corresponding per capita expenditure of 660 S. The series is led by Luxembourg with 1 760 S. The European average is 1 000 p. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What proves that? Nevertheless, malaises are malaises!]] If something does not fit you, Mr Stadler, you will shout. Listen better – and come. Then you're out! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Minister should send your reading to the Court of Auditors!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Povysil also claimed that there was nothing but silence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The main association has already responded to the Court of Auditors in autumn. The Minister answered the Court of Auditors and delivered her opinion. But you don't even care! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why don't you write your reading to the Court of Auditors?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why doesn't the Court of Auditors ask you? That's where he could save himself the test, right? You know everything...!]] The Court of Auditors' statement — I quote literally — reads as follows: In the future, the inclusion of a drug in the medicinal product directory will depend on whether its price is moving within a 10 percent range of already covered similar products. - Quote. The principle that has been in force for decades is being called into question. That seems to be a gross misunderstanding. The main association, in connection with the necessary financial consolidation measures in 1996 for the year 1997, even narrowed the volume of prices in the short term. The total volume of price reduction measures was 725 million schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Mag. Stadler! 725 million in savings at the same or improved power volume. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why don't you write this reading to the Court of Auditors!]] Mrs. Povysil is allowed to read, not me. If I quote the Court of Auditors, I don't need to learn it externally before, do I, Dr. Ofner? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bissity does not replace arguments!]] In order to maintain a system of benefits in kind for the field of relief and assistance, it is necessary to maintain contracts of interest. Or how do you imagine that?- Oh, my God! The main association has informed that at the time the federal instigation of the Bandagists took over the work of drawing up a market overview in the fields of healing and aid and gave the implementation to the ARGE. Client for the ARGE was therefore the federal innung – and not the main association. In any case, the main association has tried to offer high-quality products at a reasonable price. The market survey and the article catalogue have also actually led to a price spiral down and to the appearance of new suppliers. Why, do you think, have been used as the strongest means of pressure, namely, that the Federal Government has been announced by 21 insurance companies, but in the meantime it has been repaired? This too has passed by Mrs Povysil that this has long been repaired and the Treaty is again intact. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Get the air!]] One thing I can say to you about point 1: Corruptive abuses in the main association – this is a typical statement of the "F"! If there are problems somewhere, it's about corruption. That's your diction, but it's not a matter of fact. These are hits under the belt line! Because this night the Oscars were awarded: If one were to distribute "Oscars" for hits under the belt line, the jury would certainly give them to you unanimously from the "F"!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11309	The next item is the speech by Mr Feurstein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11339	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly: Unfortunately, I cannot discuss the raw report with you because it does not exist to me. I assume that it is not available to you either, because the raw report is an official paper, and it should not be discussed before it is not available. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, can’t you do that?]] I understand, however, the concern that this report, which we discussed some two years ago, is of great interest. On the facts, ladies and gentlemen: The problem of relief is a problem which we discussed in detail in 1996 on the occasion of the recovery of health insurance funds. I now call you the numbers: In 1996, 1 972 million schilling were spent on health insurance aids and cures. In 1997, it was 1,880 million schilling – without VAT. This is a 4.5 percent reduction in a year! Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say that we would not have taken up the problem of "aid and remedy" and tried not to solve it. – We have made a very important contribution to solving this problem! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also with the cures, we were able to achieve a very massive savings success in 1997: According to preliminary figures, the savings amount to around 700 million schillings. There have also been measures to promote the rehabilitation of health insurance schemes and health insurance companies. The jubilation that those days have gone through the media proves that we are on the right track in this regard. In 1996, there was still a 0.5 billion schilling in the field of health insurance. In 1997, there was a surplus of 1.5 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen! It can be seen that we have worked and tried to solve the problems. And we solved you, ladies and gentlemen! We say no to the desire, which now comes from different sides, to spend more instead of making reserves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] We shall continue with the success we have achieved, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Tell the sick one that they are desirous if they want cures!]] We guarantee you that we will collect further reserves for health insurance, which is because the health insurance companies will have to perform additional tasks in the next few years. [[==References====External links== Dr. Ofner]] People are getting older, which is why more health care and remedies will be needed, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11422	The next item is the speech by Mr Pumberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11443	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In June 1996, we sent the "famous and well-known" urgent question to the then Minister of State, Mr Hums, and it has led to a unanimous resolution by the National Council that the abuses we have shown in this urgent question must be examined and examined. ==References== In October 1996, we received a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was impoverished, which confirmed nothing of what we said. Now we have the Court of Auditors report – at least its content is to be found in all the daily newspapers in Austria – and in this we will be confirmed on all the points that we identified here in June 1996! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Povysil has pointed this out, and although our statements were confirmed at the time, you say, Mrs Reitsamer, that these are irrational arguments. They are also saying that the Court of Auditors has made our most of arguments, and they are indirectly accusing the Court of Auditors of making use of unscrupulous arguments. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members Reitsamer and Koppler]] This is immense, Mrs Reitsamer! [[Abg. Koppler: It was not yet the opportunity to discuss this in committee.]] We showed the wheelchair symptomatic at the time, we have shown the cervical problem, the overly high prices with a profit margin of 1 600 percent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That doesn't affect the woman Reitsamer! She doesn't care!]] - She doesn't hear that. I brought the famous shoe, the sleeper, which costs 12 000 s, and I showed you. Mr Feurstein nods and can still remember that very well. What happened? – One has examined, tested and then found the production of this shoe: This shoe, by which Mr Nürnberger said: "He looks like a sleeper, there's no way he's so expensive!" therefore is so expensive because one does not look at him as being so expensive, and therefore the price of 12 000 s is justified for this sleep. This was the result of the investigations carried out by the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, Feurstein, so it was!]] But that did not lead to any savings. Savings, Mr. Feurstein, happened only on the back of the patients. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You said a plus of 1.5 billion schilling would have been achieved if you had just worked. To this end, I must say: Yes, you have worked: They have increased recipe fees by 20 percent, which has brought 500 million schilling. You have introduced the health certificate tax. They have introduced the contribution for pensioners. You have shortened the benefits for the patients in a wipe-in. That's the difference of 5 billion schilling. Compared to the minus of 3.5 billion schilling that existed before, there is now a plus of 1.5 billion schilling. This made the red and black sanier coalition at the expense of the patients. That's the real scandal! It's still going on. I brought you a little surprise again today, namely an example of how to deal with patients in the context of healing, how to save on the back of patients in case of healing. I brought you more than one and a half years ago the shoe mentioned by me, today I brought you a message from the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital, which concerns a patient who is paralysed and bedridden and who has to be catherated three times a day by her daughter because she can no longer leave her own urine; an extremely expensive nursing activity. It is very important that we proceed very sterilely. A catheterization by a layman is already a problem, and then one must also find sterile conditions, proceed without germs, for otherwise there is an infection of the urinary tracts, ascending into the kidneys, a kidney pool inflammation, which is one of the most common causes of death in the paralytic. So far, the health insurance fund has been raised for the costs of producing the necessary sterile conditions. But now the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse of the daughter who carries out this care informs the following: From now on, we no longer have the possibility to participate in the cost of the single gloves, as they are health care or hygiene products. – So: No more money for single gloves! The daughter is implied to carry out catheterization with mere hands or at her own expense! It is risked that a paralysed patient will have an ascending urinary tract infection with kidney sepsis and may die of it, which is one of the most common causes of death in paralysed patients. This is how far you can go in the case of savings measures! The gloves cost 1.50 s the piece. It would be an effort of about 150 s a month. The Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse is no longer able to pay this amount to the patient. The provision of this care has been discontinued. That's how it's saved! That's a scandal! That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11528	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11544	That's how you worked, colleague Feurstein! This is how it works – on the back of the patients! We do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11582	The next item is Mrs Klara Motter's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feurstein, I am really disappointed that you as a social spokesperson are still supporting the praises that come because the health insurance companies report surpluses. You know exactly where the surpluses come from: They come from the benefit reductions for those concerned, they come from the health certificate fee and so on. Mr Feurstein, you have not given any fame here as a social speaker – please take this to heart! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Monopolic contracts, far-excessed tariffs for reliefs, price cartels: all these legitimate accusations of the liberals have been known to us for years. A year ago, we debated the report on pricing in the pharmaceutical sector in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. The report itself mentions serious developments in the past decades. There are also Court of Auditors reports confirming this. I refer to not a raw report, but to the Court of Auditors' reports, which are available to all of you and the Commission. I hope you've read it. Ladies and gentlemen! There, obviously, once again a system that has been in the hands of the party proporze for decades fails. Monopolizations of an association such as the ARGE Orthopedics throughout Eastern Austria can only make an economy sick, lead to cost falsehood, untransparentness and price increases. How different it would be to explain that the main association continues to operate ARGE in spite of the completely unjustifiable costs of the ARGE Orthopedics for companies that wanted to offer your products. It is quite incredible how difficult the health sector in Austria reacts to the laws of the market economy in the fourth year of membership of the European Union. I ask you: How, then, would it be possible for most reliefs and cures in Germany to cost only half? Ladies and gentlemen! We know that from 1st century to 1st century. July 1998 to self-employed, farmers as well as the people in Lower Austria, Burgenland and Styria must pre-finance their aid from their own pocket and then get only a maximum of 80 percent of the amount paid, as the federal injunctions of the eye opticians, orthopedicians, bandagists and hearing aid auditors have already cancelled their contracts with the health insurance companies. But what happens after this termination? – Mr President Sallmutter of the main association is "surprising". At the same time, the issues of dispute were not so substantial that they had touched the ground of this whole thickness. I would like to point out to the Minister today that there is an urgent need for action in the interests of the patients concerned, and I call on you to withdraw the so-called Reichslist, to have a complete reconception on competition and on State, also necessary regulatory instruments. It knows exactly whether it should know at least as much as I do that State price controls will lead to more and more parallel imports. Of course, the innings are afraid of that, that's clear. And they are opposed to where they can only be. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The solution cannot be to keep health costs artificially high in order to continue to support a marod and inefficient system.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11664	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11685	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the ARGE Orthopedics and the social security institutions do not want to hurt each other is, as I mean, out of dispute. The fact that in the health sector and especially in the aid and remedy sector in recent years there have been high savings, or at least no cost increases have been caused, is done exclusively and alone at the expense of those who need or would need aids and cures. This is reality, and I experience it regularly. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you know that people with cross-sectional paralysis in bed need a deposit in order not to be wounded. The payment of these deposits has now been cancelled by the health insurance companies on the grounds that you have to listen to this! – that this insert does not serve the protection of the body, but only the "protection of the linen". – These are "arguments" that the health insurance companies now write to disabled people when it comes to their need for aid or relief. But not only was the cost of the bed deposits deleted, but the whole thing has even been driven as far as – and I say deliberately "powered", Mr. Feurstein – that people who need diapers today due to cross-sectional paralysis or to incontinence must prove what they used these diapers for if they do not agree with their monthly quota. Then these people need to make them the chief physician and there credible why they might need 20 or 30 more diapers in this quarter. – This is reality. And if one of you thinks that disabled people might take these diapers to tape the apartment, I have to tell him: They're really not that beautiful! What else should people need these diapers than for body care and so that they are not wet? – But with such things, we have to beat around. Dr. Feurstein! This is the "great success" of your 1.5 billion schillings you now have. You took all this away from us! We were taken away by the aid and relief, partly also on the grounds that there is now the care allowance and that these benefits should, please, be paid out of the care allowance. Dr. Feurstein! You and other Members here know that the care allowance is intended exclusively for personal assistance and care. Therefore, if I buy aids or cures from them, this is, according to law, an alienation of purpose. – That’s a fact. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] You also know: A person who needs a wheelchair today, but is no longer active, is only entitled to a single wheelchair. If this wheelchair's broken, he's had bad luck. If you are working, you have the "privileg" to get two wheelchairs because otherwise it could happen that you may have to go to the hospital for a day or three days if the wheelchair is broken and needs to be repaired. This would, of course, cost. However, if a disabled person is no longer employed, he is advised to stay in bed for two or three days or in the shed. – That’s the fact. We have such conditions in Austria! My wheelchair costs 85 000 S. There you can call who or which bandagists you want, all over Austria: This wheelchair is the same everywhere. That is, there is virtually no competition at all, but these are cemented prices throughout all the bandagist companies in Austria. However, these prices do not come from somewhere, but you know that the bandagists are not only in the innings, but also in the social insurance companies. These prices are common. And all the extra costs that arise have to be borne by those concerned. My wheelchair will cost me very much if I let him send me from New York today, 42 000 S – and no more schilling! But in Austria 85 000 p. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Where does this difference of 43 000 s remain? – If you are honest and really think about it, then you know where this money is, in the administration and in the course of trade of the individual businesses serving at the expense of the disabled and the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11737	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11752	It can't go on that way in the future! Our provision of aid and relief must be ensured, and it must also be manageable for us affected.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11782	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote and I would ask you to take the seats. We are now voting on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 693/A (E) by Mrs Povysil and others on medicinal products and medicinal products, failings in the field of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, a deadline until 16. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next item is a brief debate on the request made by Dr Kier and Comrades, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 429/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the People's Law 1973, a deadline until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member After the end of this debate, the vote on the request for a deadline will take place. We are now entering the debate. I would remind you that the speaking time for each speaker is 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speech time of 10 minutes for the reason. Similarly, opinions from members of the Federal Government and State Secretarys should not last more than 10 minutes. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Mag. Mr Barmüller spoke on the grounds of the request. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11845	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal we are dealing with today in the Constitutional Committee concerns the amendment of the People's Desire Act. ==References== It was introduced here in April 1997, but has not yet been treated. This request has the substance that it will no longer be possible in the future for popular desire to be started with the signatures of eight Members. The reason is clear, ladies and gentlemen: People's desire is about the instrument of citizens to be able to apply specific topics to a legislative body. This is the formalized instrument. In contrast, there is also a formless instrument, namely the path of petition. We believe that it is an alienation from such a direct-democratic instrument, if we can open it with only eight Members' signatures, while otherwise we have to collect 10,000 signatures from rightful citizens. That's why we already have 10 on the 10th. We are talking about this subject in the Constitutional Committee, which is almost a year ago, but which has been refused to this day. Ladies and gentlemen! We are proposing this deadline because we want to avoid inflation of popular desires, as we can expect, and hence this instrument is devalued as a direct instrument for citizens. I say this, above all, because we have had different situations in the course of the discussions that have taken place when it comes to the introduction or nomination of candidates to individual elections. In our view, it should not be possible for political parties represented in parliamentary bodies to have the opportunity to nominate certain persons on such elections. However, we think it is wrong to make an account, in which a signature of a Member is equated with about 27 000 – in the order of a base mandate – electorate when it comes to this introduction. In our view, it is wrong to say that a parliamentary signature corresponds to 25 000 signatures of "normal", non-elected citizens – under quotation marks. It should be clarified that, of course, political parties have the opportunity to nominate individuals to individual elections, but it is not supposed to be this equation and that superimposition, as it is now in the law. This is what we believe to be separate, and we would therefore like to have a discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, within the framework of this proposal, which we have tabled concerning the Law on People's Desire, in which we wish to clarify this here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable that this has already been mediated by President Fischer, apparently from the current occasion. He has also said that he considers two types of popular desire to be obsolete. He thinks it is important that we discuss this in Parliament. We would of course like to make this appeal to the political groups of the Government by pointing out that they have left an application by the Liberals who have been here for more than a year and that it is finally time to discuss this request in the Constitutional Committee, perhaps on the current occasion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11905	We are now continuing in the debate. The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Mr President, for you and the following speakers in this debate, the speaking time is 5 minutes each. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e11926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ Group will not agree to this deadline request from the Liberal Forum. On the one hand, it is capable of improving content – let alone; I come back to it – and on the other hand: For timing, I have a better proposal than the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum and Dr. Schmidt cannot be spared a criticism today. – I don't make it so cheap now to ask: Where is Mrs. Dr. Schmidt?, because she's the signatory of this request anyway. It's clear where she is. I also do not make it so easy to say that this request has probably arisen in the election fifest, there is the motivation to look for. You might be hoping for a little backwind. A small "democracy guy" will certainly be good at the marketplaces. No, ladies and gentlemen, I don't make it that easy. It's about a deeper inconsistency, a double-beddedness. We agree, as I believe, that the current legal provisions on privileged Members' votes are being removed. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But you've been refusing this for a year, my colleague, herbs! For a year, you have refused the discussion!]] Mr Barmüller, there we are all d’accord. For example, the 1973 People's Desire Act, where eight Members of Parliament have as many as 10,000 citizens. That is why we agree, even as it stands here in the request. I agree with parts, for example, where it says: "This privilege of federal and country parliaments seems improper." [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That is why we are talking about it in committee.]] But now the core comes: Is it consistent for the Liberal Forum to practice criticism and unbundled reforms here, while, on the other hand, – practically at the same time – the Liberal Forum for its own presidential candidate, for the candidate, the privileged Members' signatures are right and cheap?- Oh, my God! – That doesn't fit! And even the candidate's own signature is welcome – and his own signature even double: once for himself and once for the competition! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Because you cannot dissociate elections and popular desires, my colleague! Is a popular desire a choice?- Oh, my God!]] Are you supposed to call this "sy" or "krios"? – I think it is important to maintain in this context: Overall, it is not fair how this is argued. Anyway, it's double-bedded. [[New calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What can be improved in terms of content, what needs to be done? – I agree, as I have said, with the Liberal Forum’s request, that: Paragraph 3(3) of the People's Demand Act is to be repealed. Agreed! But there are many other points that have not been dealt with. For example, § 2. Does the request of 10,000 people have to be signed? Can we perhaps discuss over a number of 5,000 or 6,000? Or: Should you perhaps simplify or design the complicated introduction procedure without form? – There are some approaches from the "Direct Democracy" initiative, which are quite welcome. Or: Let us discuss the age limit, the costs or the deadlines! Or: Let's talk a lot! – I will come back to your objection, Mr Peter. [[Abg. May. Peter: How are you on the proposal of the deadline?]] Or: Should you perhaps multiply Representatives of popular desire in Parliament, in which committees speak? Have you got yourself – this is perhaps a crucial point! – in the hectic field, is it possible to consider whether such sensitive changes that concern the field of tension between representative democracy and plebiscite elements should be sought perhaps the consensus of all political groups here? Would it not be important for such changes to be borne by all political movements? Is there a deadline application really helpful? I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: I am in favour of an immediate start to the discussions of all the political groups on this subject. I am in favour of comprehensive and carefully prepared legislative changes. These are supposed to last for one or two decades. And I am basically in favour of a wide, parliamentary opening to legislative proposals and suggestions from the people. However, I am against a hazy piece of work, as is the case with this request. Therefore, the SPÖ Group will not agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12023	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12044	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party, after the Federal President's elections, will present an extensive proposal for a legislative initiative which will take further action than the proposals made by Mr Barmüller and the Liberal Group and which, in my view, will be taken by the Social Democrats. I believe that we need a democratic package and not only should we resolve what has remained as an anachronism from time to time, but we also need to regulate things that have the highest current importance. We believe that there is no justification for the disparity between Members and citizens. We believe that in the future popular desire will be brought only by citizens. However, we also believe that an end must be made to the proposal made by Members of the Federal Presidency. The initiative should also be signed by citizens – and not by Members. [[Consent of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Mr. Moser, you nod. I am surprised that Mrs Schmidt is not here to justify herself, because she is the only candidate who has only been proposed by Members and has not been able to present a single signature to a citizen in the main electoral authority today. A lady who has used the privilege you complain here for himself even twice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are a number of people who told me that was hypocrisy. I do not want to repeat this accusation of hypocrisy here, but only say: I am surprised that Mrs Schmidt is not here, and I am surprised that you have the forehead of the Liberal Forum to come out of this matter, so to speak, to look for the splitter in the eye of the other, but do not see the beam in your own eye! [[Lively congratulation with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will present a democratic package and, in agreement with our government and coalition partner, we will also invite you to sign. Not only do we want to eliminate this privilege in popular desire and in the election of the Federal President, but we want to facilitate the implementation of popular desire in principle. There are proposals from citizens' initiatives, such as facilitating deadlines and meeting them at the expense. We want to give serious advice on this. We want to do something else that will welcome hundreds and thousands of citizens: that they will no longer have to pick up statements of support from the Population Registration Office in the future, but that we can do such things by fax – the fax has already been invented – for example, faxing his proposal to the Reporting Office and faxing the proposal to the candidates with the confirmation. That is what the citizens will thank for. Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! We shall present such proposals to you. I hope that you will still be in the National Council to support them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12113	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12134	Mr President. High house! Mr Barmüller! What you and your party leader – she has already announced in the presidency – have done with this request today is called a classic shot in their own knees; at Mrs Schmidt I would have said, in their own slim knee. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] But for the pain that the Liberals suffer through this classic self-shoot, please do not make other opposition fractions responsible! You have, and this has now proved to be the speech of Mr Khol, that you are now being invited to further weaken the plebiscitary element of the Constitution, which is already weak enough. Please read the letters of assistance from the operators of the genetic engineering people's desire, animal protection, and women's people's desire! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] That was what your wife Schmidt spoke in front of her classic self-legislative in the Presidential. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who demand to further weaken the plebiscitary elements should at least have the greatness not to be ashamed of the people themselves, not only of the Lower Austrian people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In front of the Lower Austrian voters, she no longer trusted herself so that she would not be held responsible for the debacle you suffered there. Ladies and gentlemen! She no longer trusts the voters in her own candidate. Why didn't you collect signatures for the supposedly so important choice? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not one!]] Not only does she go here and sign up for the competition – which is remarkable by the way: that at the same time she confirms with her signature, Mrs Knoll, that she actually thinks she is much more capable of becoming the Federal President than herself. This is a revelation of their attitude. You want to make your request that the directly-democratic instruments of our federal constitution, which have been weakly expressed in any case, which the former people's desire operators rightly complain – Mrs Schmidt has brought this to the attention of the President – are being further weakened. And even you are not able to join the electorate and obtain signatures, as Mr Klestil, for example, did, as Mr Baumeister Lugner of course did. Even Mr. Nowak was able to get the signatures. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ should not be in favour of this, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There was no quick clattering at all!]] Oh, yes, on the proposals made by Mr Khol, you have slammed and by chance noded. I've been watching you closely. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, but not quick! I've been thinking!]] But that's quick, otherwise you explain to your comrade Ablinger, your comrade Tegischer, your comrade Guggenberger, your comrade Worm, your comrade Konrad and your comrade Karlsson that they should stop signing for Mrs. Knoll. Or is that not covered by your party decisions anyway, ladies and gentlemen? If you are only looking to restrict the participation of citizens by building even more barriers in the future that the citizen can articulate, for example in popular desire, if you still want to take over this nonsense of the supposed Liberal Forum, then you will encounter the determined resistance of our liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We not only demand that you maintain these instruments, but we also demand that they be extended to make them more citizen-friendly. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But not for abuse for the pre-election campaign!]] But go S', stop S', Mr. Barmüller! You've been blaming for your boss today, but you're nothing too stupid for your boss! That proves this request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever is acting as you have done today shows only one thing: that he has an disturbed relationship with democracy, for otherwise he would not want to take any part in the citizens' desire. But to act as if the signature someone makes in a popular desire... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This has nothing to do with the request! Stadler, you must know what you're talking about, not just bragging at you!]] Just excited, just excited, Mr. Barmüller! You're already the pattern boy of your boss, you're already her lover. You don't need to get me out of here. Your whole group believes that you are their favorite. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller, calm down! Today, you have made a very good blame for your party president, and you don't need to do more today. Her re-election seems secure – with the signature of Mrs Schmidt! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot have any further weakening of direct democracy. We believe that direct democracy must be expanded and not weakened.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12261	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12282	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. No after just someone will come to the speaker's desk and say: I am in favour of weakening direct democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] That would be like a crucifix on a political career. That is why, Mr Stadler, the opposition groups, the liberals, but also the Greens and the Liberals are of course committed to strengthening direct democracy, making it easier to implement and take seriously the interests of citizens in that country. But, Mr Stadler, what surprises me with the liberties is that, as far as political culture is concerned about dealing with the democratic system is concerned, they are not very sluggish, for otherwise it is not to be explained that a short time ago mandates of the liberals, I say now: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[Abg. May. Stadler: What a relationship to direct democracy! What's this, "Sham candidate"?]] Mr President, these are not the most noble ways of doing this either. Unfortunately, I must say that, as I appreciate my colleagues from the Liberal Group, it was only recently in Lower Austria that a liberal parliament supported the candidate of a party in order to weaken an opposing party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But all this is not the subject of this initiative proposal by the Liberal Group, just as it is not the subject of today's debate on the possibilities of joining the Federal President's office, but rather the popular desire law. My subject is also access to the instrument on the one hand, but on the other hand I have much more concern about what is actually happening with this already existing direct-democratic instrument in this House. That is why the declaration made by Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, is not worth the paper on which it is written. Dr. Khol! Of course, 15 successful people's desires can be brought into the house here, and you can "scratch the Goderl" to the citizen – now in Austrian – as much as you want, because access is so easy. But then Parliament is doing what the National Council has already pre-examinationed in the three most successful popular desires of the last decades in Austria, in women's-population, in genetic engineering and in animal welfare. Nothing happens to it! The citizens who have taken the obstacles of the 10,000 signatures – a barrier that is a thorn in my eyes – I admit, although I have supported two of these people's desires with my signature, because it is still possible, – are carried around at the nose when it comes to the enforcement of their concerns. You, ladies and gentlemen, should first of all be interested in this: What about the wishes that are deposited here in the National Council in spite of access barriers? How are they respected, heeded? – I believe that foreign words in relation to these three popular desires. They are simply ignored, ignored or mutilated so that the original demands are no longer recognized! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals' request, if ever discussed in the Committee, which is to be doubted, will find my approval, but with some adaptations. In my opinion, the obstacle of 10,000 signatures by citizens to the introduction of popular desire is too high. Not only is the number decidedly too high, but what bothers me above all is the restriction on access by the fact that everyone has to go to the local office. For large organisations, even for parties who choose this detour, it is easy to achieve this mobilization and take these obstacles, but not for small initiatives, which are really grass-roots movements and which also want to serve this direct-democratic instrument. That is why this is an essential further condition when it comes to establishing direct democracy in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Last word to Dr. Khol: He accuses Mrs. Schmidt of "Heuchelei" in connection with her candidate. – Please, what if, if not hypocrisy, is it if the ÖVP now pretends to be Mr. Dr. Kletil, the remaining Federal President, not her party candidate? What is he then?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12335	There is no more word message. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kier doesn't talk at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Senior teacher Kier is on board!]] The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. We shall vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 429/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades, concerning a federal law amending the People's Desire Act 1973, a period of time until 11. In May 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, Those who are in favour of this request may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12389	We are now continuing negotiations on Agenda items 9 to 11. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12413	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a resolution on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. March of this year, with the votes of the government parties and the Greens, the amendment to the Food Act regulates the application of European food law in Austria and relates mainly to the areas of monitoring and control. Together with this amendment, the Committee, at the initiative of SPÖ and ÖVP, also decided with a red-green and black majority a self-employed application in accordance with § 27 GOG, which contains provisions on beef labelling. The AMA is entrusted with this law in the field of beef labelling, in particular in the collection of relevant data as the federal authority of sovereign tasks. The purpose of these provisions is to ensure a comprehensive identification of bovine animals from birth to slaughterhouse, from farmers to the market. Meat coming from third countries or other EU countries to Austria must now also be marked accordingly. This means more product-truth in the sense of consumer protection. The task of the AMA with the implementation of the European Regulation establishing a beef labelling and registration system is the most cost-effective solution, since the AMA is already responsible for implementing the European Regulation on the registration of bovine animals. The following reasons speak for this solution: Both labelling systems use the same standard data, and both procedures must therefore be handled in the same system. Both labelling procedures must work together, as navigation between them must be possible in both directions. The Federal Government will not incur any additional costs under this Act, since it is provided that the costs of the AMA will be borne by the economic operators interested in this marking. Furthermore, the Committee adopted the European Veterinary Adjustment Act, also with the voice of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens, which provides a legal basis for the adoption of EU-compliant regulations, in particular with regard to border veterinary inspection fees. This will harmonise Austrian animal health legislation with the relevant European Union rules. The implementation of individual European rules requires the creation of a constitutionally sound legal basis. This will happen today. And it is positive that this decision will not create any additional costs either for the Federal Government or for countries. It is to be welcomed that the AMA will set up a central Austrian database which will be reported by the holder within three days of any birth or change in the location or ownership of a bark. In addition to conventional telephone communications, the AMA intends to use the new possibilities of telecommunications to minimise the bureaucratic effort. As a result of the BSE crisis, these measures to regain consumer confidence are essential. In the case of bovine identification, no cheap solutions may be sought at the expense of the efficiency and confidence of consumers. The general fear of poisoning of consumers is probably unfounded, but it must be taken seriously. Agriculture will have to make every effort to meet the animal identification and accompanying guarantee requirements. Representatives of the SGS-Germany Quality Control and Assurance Agency announced at a labelling conference in Vienna in September of the previous year that the step towards a central database had not yet been taken in their home country, and they gave recognition to progress in Austria. The implementation of the German beef and veal labelling law places enormous demands on the farms on investments and reorganisations of the business process. However, from 1998 onwards, an approved labelling and documentation system with objective control had to be set up behind each piece of labeled beef. The benefits of labelling are not only in the advertising effect, but also in being able to build a general safety platform for beef. Therefore, the issue of investment should be reduced for the firms, but rather the feasibility and implementation in their own field. In addition, product labels such as the bio-seal or the AMA seal guarantee that the high standards are also complied with, as their allocations are linked to constant strict controls. Finally, let me say that Austria has already demonstrated in the European animal transport directives and in the case of European beef and veal labelling that it is successful in increasing animal welfare and animal welfare standards across Europe by means of sound arguments and perseverance. The next step is to establish, at European level, binding equivalent minimum farm animal husbandry standards which guarantee equal opportunities in production for all animal farmers in the internal market and in the future Member States. This is what we want, ladies and gentlemen, to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12470	Mr Koller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12492	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The beef labelling law aims to achieve three objectives: firstly, that irregularities are stopped, secondly, that consumers are not deceived – that which is on the shelf must be properly marked – and thirdly, that the honest people should not be the keepers. When animal passports were abolished in 1992, the designation of origin was not used very precisely. There are now two earmarks in the identification of bovine animals, but there is no guarantee that this will not be mutilated. Mr Schwarzenberger said that the use of microchips to label animals is not feasible. Then I have to answer him: He obviously does not recognize the signs of the time. This is already happening in the EU. That's the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, we liberals warned against joining the EU. This law is also about the implementation of an EU directive. Once again, our right of participation is disabled. As I said, This law must comply with an EU directive again. But that's only the beginning. Other Austrian legislation must be adapted to EU law, in particular with regard to criminal provisions, before the amendment of the feed law, the amendment of the fertiliser law, the amendment of the plant protection legislation, the amendment of the seed law, the amendment of the forest law, the amendment of the water law law, the amendment of the quality class law and the amendment of the wine law. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Muhr of the Federal Chancellery said in the Committee: We need to get ready for the EU! – In my opinion, this is an insufficient information from an official to Members. Considerable of the beef labelling law is for us first that the execution of the Moloch AMA lies, second, that the Federal Chancellor's Supreme Authority is the Chancellor's and that he has a right of guidance to the AMA – the ÖVP still applauds when the Minister of Agriculture is dispossessed from power in a row – and thirdly, that the implementation is made by regulations, which corresponds to the elimination of Parliament. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Currently the farmers have a marketing contribution and a quality seal fee to pay, and now a label fee is added. The fees to be paid by farmers are becoming more and more, while farmers' incomes are getting lower and lower. Mrs. Minister! As far as the committee is concerned, I asked you whether all these charges should not be included in a fee. They agreed with me, but they did not know how to offer a solution. We have a brand confusion game in Austria. Thus, we will not be able to claim ourselves with the "Feinkosladen Österreich" on the European market. My colleague Salzl has already commented on the EU Veterinary Adjustment Act. I would just like to present the opinion of the Office of the Carinthian Government. [[Abg. Kiss: You're Steirer!]] It says: "Besides the insufficient presentation of the cost consequences of the proposed draft, it should also be noted that the proposed implementation of relevant European Union rules is subject to constitutional concerns. In any event, it must be doubted whether the draft actually achieves the objective set out in the explanatory notes of establishing a constitutionally sound legal basis." - There's nothing left to add to it. We liberals will not give our approval to these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12544	The next item is the speech by Mr Lacner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12566	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the debate on Austria's accession to the EU, the opponents repeatedly claimed that Austrian food law, which is known to be one of the strictest in the world, would be undermined, and that the Austrians would kill the masses of unhealthy food placed on shields or similar substances. On the other hand, on the part of the government parties, it was repeatedly stressed that, as a result of EU accession to those areas in which Austrian food law is more stringent, it would not be levelled downwards, but that only in those areas would it be adapted to EU standards in which the Austrian consumer would benefit. The fact that this has occurred, not the horror scenario, in the name of the Freedom Party, can be seen very beautifully and impressively also in the draft laws which are now under discussion. It is a question of introducing or improving the labelling of beef, or, as it is so technically said, of improving the "labelling" of beef. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (to the first row of seats) What do you do if you take away the note?]] Mr Schweitzer! Since you've already spoken nonsense today, I'd ask you to go a little further in the back and get me ready in peace. Your debates today were not exactly of fine quality. You don't benefit from a "tent" either; neither does a concept increase the quality of your contributions to the debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The two present draft laws are essential steps in the way of giving a powerful consumer the information he needs to make the right decision. Without the possibility to allow consumers – and, of course, all other stakeholders – to track back the history of their lunch in a complete way, all calls are granted according to their maturity. In the Committee's report, this has been formulated in a very plastic and, as I believe, in a way which is unsurpassed by: "Bleed identification is looking for animal history, animal identification is looking for meat." – That hits the nail exactly on the head! The content of the animal identification shall be carried out on a punctual basis in the adaptation of the veterinary legislation. As examples of this, I would like to mention the changes in animal identification, but also the implementation of the EU Directive on border control of meat against third countries. That – and this is already the last point I would ask you to take note of – the improved labelling by already created institutions, which have accumulated the necessary know-how, is, of course, a matter of course. It would be contrary to the economic efficiency, effectiveness and effectiveness of the state administration, not to the AMA, which has been active in this field for many years, but to the establishment of a parallel institution to the AMA, which would only be able to fulfil the tasks already performed by the AMA to the satisfaction of all. All in all, I believe that the decision of the present draft legislation, which I am convinced that it will find the majority of this House, will take further essential steps on the road to the powerful consumer and at the same time increase food standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12617	It still has Mrs. Mag. Prammer to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said several times today that the three draft laws in question are about adapting the Austrian legislation to the rules of the European Union. I would particularly like to stress that today we have preferred a provision in force for the European Union, namely beef labelling. We don't want to go to the 1st. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I believe that we have taken a very essential step in the right direction. Today, the quality of Austrian food and the performance of the Austrian food control bodies that review the food have also been mentioned several times. I would like to say from this point of view that our food is good, yes, excellent. But they are mainly because they are regularly and thoroughly controlled. For this purpose, the food control bodies, namely all those who work in the food research institutes, have the highest recognition and the highest praise. They are the guarantees that what is coming on the table is really the first commodity, so to speak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Because, as has already been said, the operation can only be as good as the control, control is important, and the findings of the deficiencies also show clearly that it is necessary to control and that it is also important that the black sheep be brought out and shown again and again, where there are weaknesses, where the interests of consumers must be kept. The efficiency and also the almost daily communication to the media, to the press, where caution is needed everywhere, also show that there is a very thorough work. European standards are not all low. We are all very happy to travel to other European countries on vacation and enjoy the food and food available there, which, of course, also have good quality. But when we get home, we're talking about food being bad in the other European countries. – That is not true, ladies and gentlemen! I think you know that too. Ladies and gentlemen! Within the European Union – I would be very glad if this went far beyond – there must be minimum standards. We know that not only are food produced in Austria but the food market is a very broad and large one. Minimum standards, in fact, guarantee that food products that come on the market have the same quality. But this does not stop Austria from being better. The challenge of being constantly better, we have to face ourselves again and again. It is important to take account of this objective in the interests of consumers and also of the large market. Our food code clearly shows that we are constantly making the impossible possible and are trying to keep the standards very high in Austria, and we are trying to take them into consideration. We will continue to put this objective at the centre of our interest. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been discussed in great detail in today's debate on the control of animal diseases. This is primarily about adjustment and not reduction. I would like to say this very clearly and clearly. It was said by several sides that the heating of food residues was a problem. To this end, I would like to say: Food remains are all that has not been eaten by humans. In addition, this must be heated so that it can be fed to the pigs. I believe that food waste will not suddenly become special waste. We do not necessarily need to carry food residues that are compatible with humans to a special combustion or similar. I believe that, unlike other European countries in which animal diseases have occurred and still occur, Austria has proved that it has been able to prevent diseases with its system, with the strict procedure. However, it is still important to make every effort to ensure that Austria remains free from animal diseases in the future. It is important to take all measures in this direction: in the interests of agriculture and, above all, in the interests of people, consumers and consumers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12702	There is no more word message. The debate is therefore closed. A final word was not required by the rapporteurs. We now have several votes to vote on, so I would ask you to take the places. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1101 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are in third reading for the draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1102 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who agrees to this draft at third reading may give a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 949 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Motter and Mr Comrades on the simplification of access to justice for citizens. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-03-25-020-XX-NRSITZ-00112_d7e12803	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 711/A to 722/A. Questions 3906/J to 3955/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 26. March 1998, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
