ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e873	I'll open the 119. National Council meeting on Tuesday, 12. May 1998, 5:31 a.m. Members are apologised for today's session. Holger Bauer and Mag. Chief. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e904	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1008	I would also like to point out, in addition to the communication distributed in writing in the hall, that Amendments 768/A by Mr Dr. Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Guarantee Act 1977, the Financial Committee and 769/A (E) by Mrs Werner Amon and others on Semmering Base Tunnel - New South Railway to the Transport Committee ................................................................................................ Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1044	Let's go into the agenda. In the Presidency, consensus was reached on design and During the debate on the whole agenda. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120, ÖVP 112, Free 104, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. - This proposal will be adopted unanimously. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the "National Action Plan for Employment" and the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs on vocational training and youth employment
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1088	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following the statements made by the two Federal Ministers, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. First of all, I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions of employment and unemployment were given a new role in the European Community in June of last year through the decisions of the Amsterdam European Council, and I believe we are all very happy about this together. The European Council Resolution on growth and employment and the insertion of its own employment title into the Union Treaty constitutes a new quality of cooperation at Community level. At the special meeting of the Luxembourg European Council in November 1997 - better known as the Luxembourg Employment Summit - a pan-European strategy for the creation of employment and the reduction of unemployment was then adopted. The Heads of Government of the European Union have agreed on 19 guidelines to be implemented in so-called action plans. In concrete terms, that means that each Member State should set clear, concrete objectives which it intends to achieve over the next five years. ==References== In April of this year, the Council of Ministers decided on the National Action Plan for Employment, and Austria therefore complied closely with the date of the European Commission. Experience with the stability criteria has shown that clear economic policy objectives can be a key factor in success, and therefore quantifiable employment policy objectives should also lead to an improvement in the employment and labour market situation. I am very glad that we have also been able to take account of the arguments, particularly the employee's interest, and I am convinced that improving the employment situation can also contribute significantly to achieving fiscal stability objectives by burdening public budgets by reducing unemployment. And on the other hand, there's one. More employment is also needed for the long-term stability of the Austrian social security system. A report on the employment situation in the Community and on the main measures taken by the Member States under these guidelines for the implementation of their employment policies will be adopted by the Vienna European Council on 11 and 12 November. In December 1998 the Commission presented a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. This will be a first overall review of the post-Luxembourg process, and this will also open up a new era of employment policy in our Presidency, and I think we can be quite proud of that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The discussion over the last few weeks on apprenticeships, teaching workshops, vocational training courses, transitional courses and what else could be found in the media has covered something: that the Austrian National Action Plan is much more than a programme on youth employment, but also a programme for youth employment. This action plan is a political programme to be implemented over the next five years to create more jobs and to reduce unemployment. Overall, the Austrian employment programme is a very comprehensive, very concrete, very ambitious, but, as I believe, it is also a very tangible programme. But those who have expected a finished act here have assumed a false condition. What legal implementations must be made by which departments, the staff of my department will work together with the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but also with the colleagues of the Minister of Education in the coming weeks. I will allow myself to refer to the status of implementation of this NAP, as we have already referred to it in the short term - I would like to say almost lovingly - later on. I would also like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we find a favourable starting point in Austria. We should remember again and again: We have a better starting point compared to other European countries, both in terms of employment and unemployment, and I should like to point this out in two parameters. Austria has managed the necessary adjustments to changed production structures, market conditions and new forms of employment quite successfully - not least also a proof of the functioning of the Austrian social society. The enormous economic momentum in all areas has therefore also affected employment. For example, Austria has a strong increase in employment over a period of several years. Compared to 1990, we have 175,000 or 6 percent more self - employed people today, compared to 1983, it is by 320 000 or 12 percent more. Accordingly, the labour market situation is also very favourable in international comparison: Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in April 1998 with 4.5 percent in Luxembourg. Youth unemployment is the lowest in Europe at all. The share of long-term unemployed is significantly lower than the EU average at 25.7 percent. A labour market or unemployment ranking carried out by the Institute for Higher Studies according to relevant indicators, as it is technically said - here, employment rate, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment are brought into a common context - points to Austria's first place throughout the EU in the overall review. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have not mentioned these objective figures in order to put unemployment in some form, in order to beautify in some form that we must do everything we can to combat unemployment effectively. But I think we also have the right to say - and we should be proud of it - that we have come to terms with many problems in our country in a better form than other countries do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! What are the objectives of the National Employment Programme? - One thing I can say in advance: Long-term employment and structural success can only be achieved in conjunction with strong economic growth. The economic research institutes' forecasts indicate favourable economic trends for the period 1998 to 2002. Thus, average real economic growth will be 2.5 percent, compared with 1.7 percent between 1992 and 1997. This will significantly improve the situation in the labour market, according to economic research. The government is therefore committed to an offensive growth policy aimed at a sustainable and structural improvement of the Austrian economic location. In recent years, however, we have seen that growth alone is not enough to prevent unemployment. It is therefore necessary to strengthen and coordinate efforts to give priority to all employment promotion policies. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It must, as a result of all the activities of the government, as well as the legislation as a red thread, raise the question: Does this or that measure of employment benefit under proper conditions, or do you harm this measure? In addition, we must do everything we can to raise this issue as part of the strategy for companies, social partners and all other groups important to society. It must become a self-conception of our actions to question the employment effects of policy decisions everywhere. In accordance with the four pillars and the 19 guidelines of the Luxembourg Employment Summit, the Federal Government is pursuing the following objectives with the National Action Plan: creating new additional work, significantly reducing the level of unemployment, contributing to the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men, flexibly, innovatively and permeably flexibly enhancing the good training and employment system in the interests of dynamic structural adjustment, and also promoting a new culture of self-employment. In concrete terms - and I believe we have really formulated a very ambitious objective here - the number of jobs should increase by about 100 000 by 2002 and the unemployment rate should be reduced to a value of close to 3.5 percent. Youth and long-term unemployment will be halved by 2002. In addition, 20 percent of job-seekers are to be integrated into various training and job-change measures in 2002. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on current discussions and on the question of the 100 000 jobs. I was asked - and probably not only me, but others too - whether it was wise to mention a specific number and, on the other hand, whether it was a special merit if 70 000 to 80 000 jobs could be created by the upturn in the economy alone. I give a clear yes to the answer to both of these questions. I think it is right to set a quantified target for job growth. It is also in line with the logic of the position taken by Austria in the run-up to the Luxembourg Summit. The positive experience in economic and monetary policy - I am just saying: Maastricht criteria - has shown us that it can be a successful strategy to set each other measured criteria or objectives. And second, yes: I think it is a success if we succeed in creating 20 000 to 30 000 jobs over labour market policy. In addition: Nor do the 70 000 to 80 000 jobs fall from heaven. The appropriate framework conditions are necessary to enable policies for the economy, for the workers' side, to grow and to develop positively. The objectives that the government has now set itself in the NAP can only be achieved through a comprehensive and coordinated overall employment policy strategy, which actively involves all relevant policies and institutions, the social partners' organisations, but also the countries and communities. It is a national action plan, and that is why nationally everyone is required. This is why I have also been particularly committed to allowing so-called territorial employment pacts to develop programmes at regional level. At this point, I would like to highlight some Austrian specificities of this National Action Plan. On the one hand, we are one of the very few countries in which the social partners have drawn up the parts they have taken up, namely the guidelines on youth employment and also on the organisation of work, which are in fact common and timely, and I would like to stress here also with very high quality. A warm thanks to our social partners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, Austria will certainly be giving impetus to the fact that it goes beyond the four pillars and, as I would like to put it under quotes, it will list as a "fifth pillar" a bundle of additional measures ranging from the fight against undeclared work to investment in technology and research to infrastructure policy. Allow me now to address some of the key points of the Austrian plan. Developing active labour market policies and developing new, expanding employment areas as one of the objectives: The Federal Government is forcing the redeployment of mere transfers of unemployment insurance to actively promote employment and also qualification. The 1999 budget also includes 1 billion. Furthermore, regardless of the Youth Training Insurance Act, where I hope that the House will give its approval, 500 million schillings are provided for labour market promotion. They see that the active labour market policy is thus expanded. Key approaches are the development of new employment areas in the field of social, caregivers and medical services. Aid is intended to support the occupational integration of the unemployed to open up stable working careers. The conclusion of regional structural pacts with countries, cities and municipalities for the establishment of employment projects, but also for investment in structurally weak regions and urban areas of problem, should underline the employment responsibility of the various actors. I would like to stress this once again, even though I have said it before. In this context, active measures are being taken for workers who are covered by structural change, but also to increase the number of offers which facilitate women's return to work and enable young people to take up training. I would also like to make a few comments on the current financial situation of the labour market service and also on the implementation of the action plan, a subject which is being discussed very actively in the public. The cost of active labour market policy in Austria has never been as high as in 1998. It is about 7.3 billion schilling, taking into account the resources of the European Social Fund. Since 1995, these expenditures have increased by about a third. For 1999, as I have already mentioned, additional resources are provided for, so that at the end of this decade the effort for active labour market policy will have roughly doubled compared to the beginning of this decade. I know that, of course, more resources are still desirable and that unfulfilled expectations are in the room, but I think it is nevertheless remarkable that we have succeeded in asserting additional resources for this important area. Under such conditions, to talk about a hunger of labour market policy, as it is sometimes said, has nothing to do with real facts. I have therefore tried to present these real facts here. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to argue that a budgetary policy related to calendar years may arise in situations where the possibility of new commitments is limited by the labour market service or perhaps even the new promises may be below the previous year's level if projects have already been made in the previous year, which also include advances for the coming year. We have achieved a record record of new promises in 1997. This situation will be facilitated in 1998, but we will be able to provide additional funding for new funding through the Youth Training Assurance Act. However, I would like to stress that, as a result of commitments already entered into, a transfer in subsequent years has always been made, which naturally affects the financial provision of the labour market service. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, important for all projects to be careful whether a labour market success actually occurs and whether the requested funding is really the task of labour market policy. In this context, I would also like to appeal again to you, also as representatives of countries, to involve countries in the responsibility for fulfilling an active labour market policy. In the context of the financing of the National Action Plan, it was also criticised that no specific budget figures were mentioned beyond 1999. The figure calculated by the labour market service, which is also always spirited in the media, in the amount of 3.2 billion schilling of additional resources was always replicated to the year 2002. It has never been said that these appropriations are already planned for 1998 or 1999. This sum cannot therefore appear in the Action Plan with this perspective 2002. At the moment, we cannot accept any liability for the budgets of the next decade. It is the sovereign, namely the electorate, to speak here a weighty word, and I can only say one thing, even to the address of voters: If the electorate gives us the confidence again, we will see it as an obligation to ensure, even during the next legislative period, a policy that fully fulfils the employment plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That's an election speech! This is a dangerous threat, Mrs Colleague!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Nor will we allow pensioners, young people, the unemployed and the workers to be played against each other, as is always tried. However, we will always honestly say that there is no miracle recipe, no single approach to employment policy, but that there is an overall concept, one which, as the National Action Plan also represents a good guideline with important priorities. Allow me to comment briefly on a few points of this national action plan. The topic of "new enterprises" is addressed. Business creations promise an unexploited employment potential. The appropriate approaches, such as promotion transparency, procedural simplification and improved access to the capital market, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, will be addressed in detail by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs during the debate, as will the financial incentives for the recruitment of apprentices - even though he is not yet here, but he will still come. The same applies to the questions of education and training, on which Mrs Collaborative Minister Gehrer will comment in detail. It is present and will be happy to carry out this task. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that investment in skills, knowledge and skills of the labour force are essential conditions for a modern location and employment policy. I would also like to make a few comments on vocational training and youth employment. It is logical from the previous statement that youth employment or the improvement of the vocational training of young people is a central concern of the Federal Government. Our objectives are to create new apprenticeships, to develop new careers more quickly and to ensure the quality of training at a high level and to improve where necessary. After expert opinion, however, despite all efforts, despite financial incentives to recruit apprentices and the approval of new apprenticeships, there will always be a number of young people who do not live in the free job market. This is why the National Action Plan has created a so-called catch network consisting of a combination of several measures. On the one hand, in apprentices' foundations and over-company teaching workshops, we will offer the possibility of a profound vocational training. In 1998 and 1999 the Youth Education and Training Act will ensure the financing of some 1,500 such training places on a budget approach each with 500 million schillings, which will be defined as rescheduling, provided that you, ladies and gentlemen, also give them the consent. On the other hand, about 2 500 places will be available in vocational training courses. The organisation is responsible for institutions with free use of the school infrastructure of vocational schools, higher technical institutions and other institutions. You see here the close cooperation and cooperation of several ministries. These institutions will not endanger - and this was a special concern for us - the dual training system, which we owe to our unique position in Europe in relation to youth employment and which is recognized as the "best practice method". The start of training will be fixed at the beginning of November to mid-November. I said it's a net, a safety net. The curriculum should be based on the relevant vocational training schemes, with the aim of ensuring that young people are able to enter normal apprenticeship at any time or at the latest after one year's training. We will ensure that these training periods are fully taken into account on relevant teaching professions. If, contrary to expectations, a transfer into a apprenticeship relationship due to lack of apprenticeships is not possible, after an evaluation by the project group, which is jointly used for the implementation of these projects, it may be possible to continue training after three quarters of the training course. Vocational training under these special forms shall take place, if possible, in establishments, but also in other appropriate facilities such as vocational schools, other federal schools, the vocational promotion institute, the economic promotion institution or similar facilities. For the period of these courses there is a social security equalisation of participants with apprentices in the dual training system. They receive a special aid of 2 000 p. I am therefore going to report this in detail here, ladies and gentlemen, because we are also going new ways, we are setting new impulses, we are also talking about suggestions from the social partners, and I hope that this will achieve exactly what we have set ourselves as a goal: that young people in our country always have a positive perspective and that there will never be any generation conflicts either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Leave Finally, I would like to make a very brief comment on the implementation concept. Mr Farnleitner and I were assigned to carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the National Action Plan, and we have set up a steering group to do so. For each planned measure, the competence or co-competence, the nature of the implementation and the appropriate timetable shall be defined. A separate project group, which was set up together with Mrs Gehrer, is working on the part of young people. Our objective in implementation is to cooperate closely with all actors involved in the implementation, such as the countries and communities, the labour market service, the various government agencies and the social partners, and to support them in their work. But last but not least, we also want to invite you to support us in our work. Of course, under the third pillar of the National Action Plan, the social partners have a central responsibility for modernising the work organisation to deal with structural change. This requires a high degree of adaptability while safeguarding social protection rights both on the employer and on the employee side. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my view, in view of all these measures and the rapid changes in social policy, in economic policy, in environmental conditions, in times of competitive pressure and globalisation - in order to use this too - it is all the more important that we make a social policy which guarantees a sufficient minimum level of social security. Only on this basis will people, will our society be able to shape economic change forward-looking and without fear. I believe that this National Action Plan for Employment takes account of these objectives, and I should also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make an active contribution to the implementation of this Action Plan and to the laws that will still be decided upon to give your support. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1184	Thank you, Minister of State Hostasch. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1205	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government plays a key role in its work and in the National Action Plan on Education and Youth Employment. Education, vocational training and youth employment are linked. Only well-trained young people have the best opportunities to find jobs in the future. The question of education, school and vocational training must therefore not be a question of money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is our duty to create the best framework for the task of politicians. The budget figures that we will be discussing in the coming days speak a clear language. From 1997 to 1999 there was a budget increase of 5.5 billion Schilling in education. This means, of course, that the majority of teachers are financed. And to the criticism that staff costs are so high, I would like to say: School lives by good teachers. They are the most important companions of our children in life! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The cost of teaching is therefore an essential part of our schools and the training of young people. That's why I'm out of my mind. With the preparation of the National Action Plan, Austria has set a further focus on the future-oriented education and employment of young people. We have deliberately adopted a broad approach. If Austria, with its unemployment figures, is also in the lower EU and has even the lowest youth unemployment within the European Union, we must not yet be satisfied with it. Any effort must be made to ensure that young people receive good training. The worst thing that can happen to a young person is to feel unnecessarily needed when entering the workplace. It is therefore an important task of policy to give young people the best possible education, the chance of vocational training and thus of a job. Since the end of the 1980s, the Federal Government has responded to these challenges with an economic policy based more strongly on the following principles: sound state finances, participation in economic and monetary union from the beginning, withdrawal of the state from the enterprises, strengthening of the financial area, more flexible working world and new business creations. Since the mid-1990s, these principles have been reflected in the consolidated budgets 1996/97 and 1998/99, as well as in the simplified approval procedures, a new law on working time, a gradual privatisation and, in particular, in the decision-making process for the National Employment Action Plan. This National Action Plan also set out measures to develop the quality of schools and education as an important basis for improving labour market opportunities. Such measures, which have been developed and implemented in schools since the mid-1990s, include: Quality management and school development programme, the 1999 curriculum project, a continuous review of the content and scope of the teaching materials, classification of the curriculum into core and enlargement areas, the further development and continuation of autonomy, the intensive cooperation between school and business, school and university, as well as university and economy - this should in particular also lead to a promotion of entrepreneurial thinking -, mandatory educational and professional orientation at a high level and the further qualification of all teachers. In the past, particularly higher education and apprenticeship training have greatly contributed to the fact that in Austria youth unemployment has not developed as dramatically as in other EU countries. For the next school year, too, our common goal is to enable any youth who is able to attend a secondary school to receive this training. To this end, I would like to clarify the following: In the school year 1997/98, a total of 7 600 pupils were more admitted and remained in the secondary schools of Austria. Of these, 5,632 attend vocational secondary and higher schools. As is apparent from the previous registration figures, there will be an equally high student increase in the coming autumn. It is also important that we pass from the primary school or from the 4. Design class of the AHS in a secondary school harmoniously. To this end, the National Action Plan states that the admission procedure should be evaluated. Special attention must be paid to equal opportunities between AHS students and primary school pupils. At present, it is the pupils of the primary school who are particularly well prepared for the visit of higher schools through various school autonomous priorities and targeted programmes. Now to the Austrian apprenticeship training: The Austrian apprenticeship training is a success story. At present, 40 percent of a year of age, that is, 40 percent of 95,000 young people, are still teaching. And from this point of view, I would like to thank all those who accept and train apprentices in their businesses! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This training in the firms and with a school supplement has enabled many young people to make a seamless transition into the profession. This good Austrian apprenticeship training must be maintained in cooperation with the social partners! The measures we have taken in the National Action Plan are as follows: Firstly, a financial relief for firms that train apprentices. This objective has already been pursued decisively in the last two years. For example, the social security contributions for all three academic years have been deleted, as have employers' contributions to accident insurance for the first year of education. The National Action Plan also noted that enterprises received an annual tax exemption of 20 000 S per apprentice in the first year of education. This is so important to me because I mean: Although this amount is not the nonplusultra from the height, it is certainly an essential signal for the future. For the first time, this documents that investment in youth and in education is as important and must be taken into account as investment in machinery and technologies. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] All the measures taken together will facilitate those firms that train apprentices, amounting to around 700 million schilling. This corresponds to about 14 percent of the total net training costs of the enterprises. Second point: Further reduction in the density of the regulation requires that apprenticeship training be made even more attractive. Many measures have already been taken, and others have to follow. Thirdly, New apprenticeships must be implemented within six months. The first acts have already been put in place. In April alone, 15 new, forward-looking teaching professions were created, such as: Disposal and recycling specialist, communications system merchant, survey technician, data processing system technician, solar protection system technician. Fourth: For the weak young people, the teaching will finally be implemented. This teaching is intended to lead to the completion of the profession of a qualified helper. The changeover to apprenticeship training must be possible. Fifth, you open a bottle In the event that, despite all efforts, not all young people find a teaching centre, the proven reception network of teaching workshops and apprentices foundations is continued. In addition, transitional courses are opened. These transitional courses must be provided by institutions in the federal states and include the important features of apprenticeship training, namely practical training in an establishment or in a workshop and supplementary schooling. In the event of difficulties in finding establishments for practical training, workshops should be made available to schools or adult education institutions. The models of the apprenticeship foundation and the transition courses are offered in time at the beginning of the school. They are intended for those young people who are fit to teach but who have not found a teaching place in spite of all efforts until November. In cooperation between the Ministries and the Länder, the planning of such offers has already begun. In addition, 500 million Schilling are planned for these measures in the 1998 and 1999 financial years. I am particularly pleased that these provisions in the National Action Plan have prevented the full-time school for apprentices. In the longer term, this full-time school would have meant the end of the training willingness of the establishments and the end of good Austrian apprenticeship training. It is also important to me that those young people who do not have compulsory schooling should have a chance to do so until the 18th century. ...................................................................................................................................................................... We are already involved in the design of these training courses. The 1999 budget provides for 50 million schilling. With the specialized universities, Austria has set a very important new offer for academic vocational training. There are currently 40 high-school courses in Austria. Four more have already been approved for the next study year. The opportunity to find a job with a vocational education is proven to be extremely high. In the university sector too, substantial new emphasis has been placed on this legislative period. The University Studiengesetz 1997 greatly expanded the flexibility of design on the part of the students. This enables students to respond individually to new professional challenges and, above all, to focus on them in the final phase of their studies. This legislation also strengthened the mandate for cooperation between university institutes and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the framework conditions that we must set as politicians also belong to the social framework for me. And I believe that the new family support decided by the government will also offer new opportunities for young people. After all, 6 000 S more per child, maintaining the multi-children's season, ensuring more childcare places throughout Austria, as well as reaching the school and apprentice-free drive for boarding school students. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] With these 12 billion schillings more for the families, we will make a significant contribution to providing children with further opportunities for education. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget figures, the measures put forward by the Government and the objectives agreed in the National Action Plan clearly show that education and training in the Federal Government and in this Parliament is given a particularly high priority. Politics is work for the future. Education and training for young people is the basis for a good development of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1348	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate on the two statements which have just been made. I give the floor to Mr Gaugg as the first speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1373	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! What we have been told here with the statements made by the two ministers corresponds, for example, to the essay work of a middle school student. Not only the content of the National Action Plan for Employment is a disappointment, but also the presentation by the two ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Was your level too high, Mr. Gaugg?]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Do you know what would be best for you? - It would be best for you if you went to school again and learned something, namely democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That would be good for you once! And you could also ask your colleague and minister Gehrer for a teacher's position at a secondary school, because you could play the upper teacher there. In reality, the topic is really too serious... [[Live calls from the Abg. Dr. Krammer. - President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This shows once again the level of the representatives of the government parties. Mrs Gehrer mentioned that there were measures to attract apprenticeship training. She said it was already set and it should be put further. But it is once again concealing what measures are to be taken. This would be more interesting than reading the essay or statements in the tone: "Now we have invented the egg of the Columbus!" Or: "Kreisky's dream has come true!"Austria is a "island of the Blessed", and the around 300,000 unemployed in our country are an invention of the "evil" opposition! I emphasize: Despite the use of 2 billion schilling - according to a broadcast of the ÖGB - you have not managed to accommodate all apprentices! There are still about 3,000 young people looking for an apprenticeship. - You should give answers to that, Mrs. Minister. For anointing words, such as: "We will do!", we don't need it. I ask you: Why haven't you done it for a long time? We have rising unemployment rates in Austria. We have particularly high unemployment rates for over 40 years. There are already over 100 000 unemployed under 40 years of age. We have a massive reduction in personnel in the national and former national companies such as Post, Railway, Connection, OMV, Federal Forest and so on. The ÖGB is silent about this. It doesn't matter to the ÖGB at all! This is even so far that, of course, everything happens voluntarily in this area. But if it doesn't happen voluntarily, then the pressure comes. Where's the ÖGB? Where is his responsibility as a representative of employees? If Mrs. Hostasch here explains the sequence of how all this came about, I ask myself: Where are the actions? Where are the actual actions? - Because I'll tell you one thing: This National Action Plan for Employment is a pact of false hopes! Because you are financially unable - you cannot prove this - to actually implement your claims or the claims of this National Employment Plan. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] According to your current statements, the head of the labour market service Buchinger cannot be master of his senses, because otherwise you could not claim that everything is in order in the labour market service anyway. The fact is that current labour market service measures are being reduced and future measures cannot be implemented because the money is missing. That is why I say to you: This National Action Plan for Employment is a national blamage of the government. This is a national blamage of the government from the summit in Luxembourg to the 15th. It continued on April when you were only able to put together a corresponding paper under the pressure of the EU. But this agreement is not worth the paper on which it is written, if not follow appropriate actions. They're talking about a catch-up network, a great catch-up network. How long will the net last until it rips? How long will your network last until it breaks because you will have many thousands of young people on this training network? Where will you then place them on the labour market in the future? Finally, put solutions on the table so that we can bring down the unemployment rate, and not only talk about the Paradise coming after the next elections - but only when you are elected! - That was your statement. That was an early election speech from you. And I'll tell you one thing: They only need paper to be produced. You don't care about the fates of the workers, it doesn't matter. You understand, lyingly, to cover all the problems, you don't care. You don't take care of any singlesichtsale! [[Abg. Murauer: This is a cutback!]] You do not care that many women in employment are suffering poverty despite work, through the McJobs you have created, with your support, with the support of the Trade Union Confederation. Now there are companies in Austria offering jobs as needed. Where is the cry of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation? Employment as needed! We have always resisted, together, the capacity-oriented working hours. They're coming, they're creeping at it. But since you're in the government, you can't say anything. You must also not mention that you have no control over the problems in the labour market that have been known for many years. Overtime reduction - an archival discussion in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: From you!]] Overtime reduction is an archaic discussion in this country, an archaic discussion! Now you've come to think it's good. I wonder why you don't put this into practice. Where are your positive signals to reduce additional wage costs? Where are they? They are hiding behind the 2000 tax reform, which, I say to you today, will bring a further burden because, despite the savings package, you are unable to reduce the budget deficits. The budget deficits continue to rise. However, you have concluded a Stability Pact with Brussels, and although you have a pre-emptive understatement towards Brussels, you are unable to solve the problems in the normal budget without increasing the deficit. I ask you: Will there be the miraculous increase in money after the election? The sharpest criticism of your action plan, which you celebrate in this way: In a study carried out in January 1998, the Wifo found that by 2002 alone some 100 000 jobs will be created in that country. Now I'm wondering, Are those included in the Action Plan additional 100 000 jobs, or are these just random products designed here? - Currently we have rising unemployment. In 1996, it was said that we will have about 5.5 per cent unemployment in 1997 - we had 7.1 per cent. It will rise by a tenth this year. You want to reach 3.5 percent, but don't tell us where you're going to get the financial resources. They are talking about the business offensive required in the employment plan. Where is she? - they fall by 12 percent in the first quarter of 1998 compared to 1997. So their kind of policy does not take effect. It all seems to be a rescue action to get over the next National Council elections. And then again comes the great sheer and again the great lack of jobs, because in reality we have a government that says: We do not at present solve the problems that arise. We are currently producing a lot of paper, and there is only one type of full employment in our country, namely full employment of the social partners with their Wi-Fi, with the BFI and other institutions. They are now being stopped with public funds to train apprentices there. - We'll finally see the result. This is not a kind of employment policy, as we imagine it. They have the responsibility to provide employment in this country. You're in the government. You would have the damn duty to finally take action and not constantly talk about any measures and actions, then you would be more credible. They only produce paper on the sides. It all sounds so wonderful: We will tackle unemployment. Mrs Gehrer says that we will no longer have apprentices looking for work. - The facts look different. They will be measured by the actions and not by your papers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1455	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1473	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg! The Federal Government does not have the opportunity to request donations from entrepreneurs with beggars, when it comes to implementing the employment plan, but needs to be self-contained. [[Abg. Blünegger: This is an old hat!]] You should remember that again and again when it comes to your own affairs. [[Abg. Gaugg: Penthouse office! Free residents of a penthouse!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Eight out of ten Austrians see unemployment as the most pressing problem facing politics. Since 1990, and this has always been stressed in this debate, it has indeed succeeded in creating 175 000 new jobs in that country. [[Abg. Gaugg: How many have you lost?]] We must also remember that we have more employees than ever in our country. [[Abg. Gaugg: Open up what you pay for your penthouse! Tell the workers!]] The forecasts show clearly up, and youth unemployment has decreased, ladies and gentlemen. It is ultimately about putting these facts in the foreground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Tell me what the penthouse costs!]] Nevertheless, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must take the concern about jobs more seriously than ever. More than 230 000 people are looking for jobs on average per year - young, older and, above all, women. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who lives in a penthouse, paying for the other? Take a position on this!]] This is a challenge for politics, not hammock. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who pays this? Tell us who the owner is!]] The Luxembourg Summit has clearly shown that, as regards the national employment programmes, not only the euro should contribute to stability, but also employment should be an essential aspect of the future. [[Abg. Gaugg: You don't even pay the lifts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the next few years, we will certainly have the opportunity to make progress in employment through the national employment programmes. The national employment plan is a compromise in many areas. You will know this if you have followed the debates in connection with the preparation of the national employment programme. You know that we have a critical position in replacing the accident insurance contributions for young people with the right to teach, because we believe that being an apprentice cannot mean being an accident. The ÖGB also made other considerations there or there. However, I am convinced that the social partners together have found a compromise aimed at creating employment for people in our country, whether young or old, and at not sending them to the future without employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these successes can only be achieved if we take a networked action. Economic policy, financial policy, research, social and educational policies must form a unity. But it is also a matter of implementing it quickly. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why don't you do it?]] This is an urgent request to the Federal Government: In the final analysis of the possibilities, we are also concerned that we do not hinder ourselves. I am thinking in particular of the very difficult procedures relating to the independent training institutions. I'm making the allegation here: If a normal company had to take up apprentices under these conditions, he would have long since given up working as apprentice trainers. Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer! The vocational school was never intended for us as a substitute for apprenticeship training, but it is a very valuable part of vocational training, dual vocational training. This should be used as a means in the special situation of the many young people who, due to the development of birth in our country, are being trained in the next two years. I would ask you to take this seriously and not always put the full-time school in the space in the course of apprenticeship training. They know that we are concerned with the use of the quality of the existing school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of ensuring that these self-employed training institutions are able to move quickly where they are needed, because the priority lies in the teaching establishments. The priority lies in the teaching establishments of the economy, but if necessary, the path should be taken through apprenticeship foundations or independent training facilities. I would really ask you to take the appropriate regulations. Look at these! I am convinced that if you had to train apprentices under these circumstances, you would give up. There is a redeployment on the square, and that must be possible until summer. In addition, the national employment plan is also an approach to reflect on how we can further improve the decisions already taken. In my opinion, the solidarity model, the educational career, is also part of a national employment plan. And I mean, the biggest challenge is actually to cut unemployment to about 3.5 percent. The greatest challenge is to reduce unemployment while at the same time increasing the working population and pressure on the labour market. That is why I am convinced, as with the euro, that everyone - all of us in the political life, including those on the visitor gallery - will have the opportunity to examine with this national employment programme whether we are actually able to create a place for any youth who is unemployed or unemployed for more than six months or without training. Is it possible for us to give every man, woman, who is unemployed for more than 12 months, a job or educational opportunity? I believe that it is also a great challenge to increase the share of education from 10 to 20 percent. It's not just about increasing the quantity. We must also ask ourselves the question: In what direction do we actually figure out? - It's not about the interparking of people, it's about opening up new opportunities and creating new opportunities. We have set out the framework for the national employment programme. I believe that we also need to continue working on this. In this summer, Cardiff will be the first opportunity to see what the other countries have created on national employment programmes. But we must do one thing: develop equal opportunities for women in national employment programmes. I personally believe that we still have a lot to do there. The young people have rightly been particularly concerned with this employment programme, because we know that there will be a large number of school leavers due to the high birth rate in this year and also next year. It cannot be our goal to leave these young people on the streets in some form, but we must actually put them into education, into first education. Foundation models, other forms of training have been mentioned here. As far as the new professions are concerned, I am convinced that this is essentially about homework. What do we actually understand under a new profession? - Mrs. Federal Minister! You rightly called a few new occupations. I think that's a good thing. But we still have the question of whether every new profession, called a new profession, is actually a new profession or whether it is just a narrowing of training on specific activities. I already know that one or another will say that the garden center apprentice belongs to the future. It used to be the retailer, who later specialized. - Should be. I am personally convinced, however, that we should ensure that there is no too close specialization in initial training, but that it is seen as a whole. I come to the conclusion. I believe that the enlargement of the European Union and Agenda 2000 together with the national employment plan are a major challenge. It is also a great challenge to convince the economy - as we did successfully last year - that the attitude of young people increases the future of the industry. And I am glad that radio station Ö 3 is now also working together with the economy to create additional apprenticeships. Cooperation, the regional employment concepts and control are required - on 15 May. June in Cardiff, 11th and 12th December in Vienna - but not only control, but also learning from one another. It is about securing employment and income for more than 18 million people in the European Union and more than 230 000 in Austria, but also to strengthen domestic demand and not only to talk about stability, but also about people. The future of work should be our concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1632	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1650	Mr President. Mrs Bundesministerins! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Council! The future of work is supposed to be our concern, and you are undoubtedly right. I am sure that this Federal Government will acknowledge the concern about the problem of unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not much!]] Leave For this, please quote Hans Köppl, the editor-in-chief of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": "No false hopes. The old working society is in the end. ... It is common knowledge that work in the conventional sense loses the character of self-evidentness. ... One thing has to be clear. Of the jobs that are now disappearing, no one will get back, and the social 'runway' belongs to the past." So it's useless if we get the problem... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Year after year we have more job opportunities, which the President has just shown! Year after year there is more work!]] Professor Lukesch! It goes without saying that if 80 percent of the... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You fall into the arguments of world doom!]] Somewhere I have now pressed a wrong button at Professor Lukesch - he is no longer to brake! Having recognized the problem and accepting this problem for people and for society is one side. The other side is the analysis we draw from it. In the analysis, do we really recognize that this new working society, along the way from agriculture to the industrial and then information society, sets completely new requirements for us, which we cannot meet with old answers? Industrial workers tend to fall away. It will undoubtedly be replaced by new work, but not to the extent that we wish to achieve full employment in a conventional sense, as we had it. In the last three years alone, from 1995 to 1997, 24 000 people in the primary and secondary sectors have become unemployed and have not been replaced, the number of jobs has fallen, while in the tertiary sector 19 000 have been more employed. Our problem is, therefore, that, as Mrs Gehrer and Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch have already pointed out, 10 percent of all jobs are lost every year, due to the technologies and a shortage of labour, because our education system cannot react to them as quickly as possible and create new requirements. And that's where the problem lies. Although we spend a lot of money on initial education in Austria, we are still in the second or third series in further education, in lifelong learning. [[Abg. Conspicuous: 10 to 20 percent, that's a big challenge!]] I mean, the very big challenge is not just to put training in the foreground until the start of the career, but perhaps to put the very great emphasis on perhaps even in the future to use one third of all the training resources where it is about lifelong learning in order to keep up with technological progress. I cannot agree with you on the conclusions you draw from this National Employment Action Plan. It makes sense to read it through and to promise success on time. But you're making a big mistake: You don't want to get rid of the existing system, you want to fix it. In all these chapters, ladies and gentlemen, the word "customer" does not occur once. You will not find the words "demand", "needs of markets" in there. [[Abg. Controversy: Do you believe economy is self-evident? That's demand!]] I would like to quote Helmut A. Gansterer on the question of unemployment. He says that there is certainly a hundred answers on the question of unemployment. I'm just quoting you three. Firstly, he says that economies are actually infinitely simple. And it is actually infinitely simple in its fundamental cause. He goes on to say: "If you have a product that the market screams like at the spear, you will need more workers than you can find. If not, then you will first destroy workers and then perish." "The crucial issue in the fight against unemployment is therefore: Do we have tearing products? And why don't we have tens of thousands more of them? What do we really need for that?" This is what we need to ask ourselves in the context of our employment plan: Is this country in its legislation, within its framework, customer-oriented? Is this country geared towards discovering needs worldwide and in the country itself? Has it created framework conditions for entrepreneurs, for self-employed people, for employees who can live with these conditions and market optimal products? This is the question that we should ask ourselves about an employment roadmap - in addition to many important conclusions that we find in this long convoluted convoluted situation where the customer orientation of our economy does not occur. In this respect, something has to happen in the minds of the members of the government. It is not that you can order employment from above. You know very well that you are hoping for these 100 000 jobs, which you are talking about, as a result of an economic upturn, and they are running with you, but also without you. But where you are required, employment policy today means site policy, and that of site policy in increasing globalisation. The successes we have in the export industry, ladies and gentlemen, to whom I congratulate the export industry, are those which have come about through EU accession, because the Austrian economy now has the market it needs, but that is essentially the secondary sector. There, where You can create additional jobs where you can cope with the growing demand for the labour market, there are few or no proposals, because this is about the absolute meeting of customers' needs in the service sector, which is about the absolute coverage of employment opportunities. The National Action Plan shows where the customer is going - of course with social symmetry and social protection - in the area of flexibilization of the working world, it does not point out that we still have the lowest degree of flexibility in Austria from all countries. I quote from the statistics of the European Union: The index for working time flexibility is 51 in Austria and 80 in Germany, 100 in Portugal, and 100 in the EU average. [[Abg. Conscious: Why is the Austrian employment situation so good if we are so poorly flexible? – I wonder!]] Mr President of the Council! The employment situation in Austria - the Federal Minister has prayed to us again - is good with regard to youth employment, I congratulate you on that. [[Abg. All in all!]] But it is bad in terms of total employment, because our percentage of unemployment is at least as high as that of Germany. We don't need to discuss that 50 times. We have 240 000 unemployed people in Austria, we have a huge share of early pensioners, we have pensioners and so on. So you come to an unemployment rate if you actually value what you have otherwise "parked" from 500 000 to 600 000 people. [[Abg. That's the same thing the Germans have! That's the same for the French!]] - But that's not true. Austria has the highest proportion of early pensioners in Europe at all. [[Abg. The others call it different! They call it early retirement!]] You transfer from unemployment insurance to pension insurance every year 5 to 6 billion Schilling because you have understood that this "parking" of unemployed people over 50 years is better than leaving them unemployed. But de facto, in order to make it comparable with the figures of the European Union with which you are bragging, we have the same unemployment rate as in Germany. We may have dealt with this differently, I like to conced and I am pleased about it. The National Employment Action Plan aims to improve employability in its first pillar. This is where progress is planned in education and training - my compliment to that. But there will be no answer to what we are doing with the increasing number of people who fall out of the work process and will never get work again due to their qualifications. There's nothing about the social... Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Halbierung!]] You can want to halve. People who are excluded from the work process due to their qualifications are an expression of the social change you need to combat with new instruments. [[Abg. That's what's inside!]] We Liberals offer you the basic guarantee approach, since we believe that it is a human right in this society - even if you are not able to find a place in the labour process - to have a security. We believe that the concepts of work and performance you do not lose a word about in your national employment plan are not adequately discussed. There is work which is not a service in the economy, so it does not find any precipitation in the gross social product. But there is certainly work that is socially necessary, which we urgently need, which we should make possible. So there is a lot of work, but it is not a paid job, it is not a job that is included in the preliminary economic process we measure on the national product. That is to say, a national employment plan should consider how a new social contract is to look forward to finding a social security for people who today are quite securely unable to find work in this complex, ever faster and more productive world, so that they can carry out the work that is socially necessary, for example in the field of agriculture, whether it be in the field of old-age aid, whether in the field of child training, or in the field of continuing training, whether it be in the field of social work outside the institutions that exist. The understanding that the failure of employment can no longer be replaced, but that there will be new areas of employment which, in an economic sense, as we know from classical national economic theory, are not quantifiable, I completely lack in this national employment plan. The second pillar wants to develop the entrepreneurship spirit. I think it's nice that the Social Democrats were on the 1st floor. In May, in Vienna, there were large signs on the Rathausplatz, on which it was written: More Entrepreneurs for Vienna. This will have been a pleasure to Mr Maderthaner. But what did you do for it? What have you done, except to speak good words, to promote the fact that it is worth becoming a businessman, that it is attractive for a young person to become a businessman? Do you have the social imbalances that remove tax imbalances? Have you explained the industrial questions that it is possible and worthwhile to become entrepreneurs? Why should one who deserves good, namely 30 000 S or 40 000 S gross, and has a good job, become a self-employed person? - It comes from the warm room of social protection into the grapes of your policy and is then still responsible for everything in this country. You cannot really believe that you are creating entrepreneurs with national action plans and paper! Where are your framework conditions - also with regard to the social security of entrepreneurs? - They're making the self-employed worse everywhere. Do you not notice that there is a completely new poverty among the self-employed, among the small traders? - And knowing of this poverty, do you have the forehead to talk about that you want to create 40 000 or 50,000 - depending on whether the bowl or hostasch says the number is different - new self-employed? Do you think you can pray these? Third pillar: Promote adaptability. Ladies and gentlemen! Who, then, is hindering adaptability in the economy? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The Liberals!]] - So let's get this call out, Puttinger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I know you're living in the agricultural past, but I'll explain it to you! The adaptability of the economy inhibits you by continuing overregulation. They make it worthwhile to do what policy aims to do, namely to employ as few employees as possible. That's the truth! The most expensive production factor we have, which is overtaxed, is human work. We entrepreneurs do nothing but follow your framework. We see how we can reduce as much as possible this most expensive production factor of work, on which 70 percent of all taxes depend, in order to improve our cost picture. This is the problem, and that is not the national action plan for employment, because you are not talking about customers, but because you still believe that you can "screw around" the existing system. Column four: Equal opportunities. My compliment! It contains a lot of important measures to enable women - after long speeches - to find their own self-determination in the economic field. You have seen the problems in the National Employment Action Plan, but your analysis does not go far enough, but I am sure that we are not so far apart. You stay stuck in the old system you have built in the course of the 50 years of the Second Republic. They did not understand that the industrial society is inevitably ending and that the information society is already largely real today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! You didn't put yourself to the test! We Liberals oppose two strategies. One strategy means deregulation for those who do so - most of them will be in this system - to whom we offer all the training opportunities to make them as productive as possible in their own sovereignty of time. That part of the people - and we have to take note of this bitterly - which will not succeed, we must show that work also has a different meaning than in a production society, rather than according to the standards of productivity. That's where we'll need basic security. It is unfortunate that neither the Trade Union Confederation nor the Social Minister has so far entered into this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1837	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1855	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! High house! I am of your opinion, Mr Peter, if you say that location policy is important for employment policy. We certainly need some research and development follow-up. There are some areas in which we have to lay down. But I am not at all in agreement with you - now he is right now, he should listen better; I agree with you in some matters concerning location policy - when you talk about general basic security. [[Abg. May. Peter talks to Abg. Verbatim]] What's that? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Read, read, read!]] We need active policies, not defensive care policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The so-called basic security is certainly not the way. I don't understand that with you either. I have to tell you. - We need active policies, employment policies, and not defensive care thinking! Ladies and gentlemen! One important part of the local policy and a good future policy is youth employment, youth training. That's not a question. Well-trained skilled workers are also in demand and important in all areas in the future, and therefore we give so much weight to youth training because this is an important prerequisite. We have not dealt with the problem so badly either. The fact that there is the lowest youth unemployment rate in Austria also has its reasons. We only now have an additional concern with the birth-like vintages. But, ladies and gentlemen, in a contribution on Bavarian television last Sunday, it has been said that Austria offers the best vocational training in the metal profession worldwide. That's a statement! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Or: The head of an American hotel chain comes to Austria once a year to get 15 students of Austrian tourism schools for an internship for the coming summer. That's a clear act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is regularly the most successful country in the world's best-selling professional olympiads. The quality of vocational training in our country cannot therefore be ordered so badly if we receive the best censorships again and again, however, from abroad. This must be noted very clearly once and for all. I can tell you that on my travel abroad I always get two questions on which to have information in the service of the Austrian export industry. The first question is: How does successful vocational training work with us, why do we have so well-trained young people and skilled workers? Secondly, we always ask: How does the Austrian social partners work? - These are the two most important questions we are asked in each country. This also shows that one is interested in it and that in this regard one hears quite good about our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you find Austrians in top positions in all countries of the world who have enjoyed their vocational training in our country - including dual vocational training - you are looking forward to it, because this is also a Evidence that our training is good and that it is recognized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many successful entrepreneurs prove the high quality of our training, I believe, even around the world, with their successes. Quality is one thing, the accommodation of all those who are interested in it is the other. That is what we have to deal with, and we have done so in this case. In any case, we know that youth training in the dual system - our apprenticeship training - has a high employment effect. Austria is the country with the most favourable values in the youth unemployment rate. Nevertheless, every unemployed youth, ladies and gentlemen, who wants to learn is too much! That's not a question at all. We have to deal with this, and I believe all political groups and all the social partners are completely in agreement on this point. We have set a first step in the right direction in the 1997 apprenticeship package with cost reliefs. We've heard this today. The average savings are worth mentioning here. But what is even more important is the improvement of the framework conditions. There have been some improvements to the new provisions, although only first steps - I am very clear - but steps in the right direction. The increase in the number of starters by 8 per cent at the end of 1997 shows that it is in the truest sense of the word that we are seriously looking for solutions and working out them together, and we have tried to do so. I also welcome the Ö3 action in this regard, as did President Verzellnich. All those who can do something to make a positive contribution to youth employment are required and required. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] With the 1998 apprenticeship package of the National Action Plan, we can certainly facilitate our businesses' commitment to modern vocational training, and that is of course important and essential. Cost relief can only be one of several measures. I do not give the impression that firms will only be able to obtain the costs of apprenticeship training; they do not ask for that at all. They only require support and assistance in the cost issue and, of course, in the overall working conditions, in the framework conditions. In this way, the exemption provided for in the National Action Plan is certainly a step forward for every apprentice in the first year of education. It is a clear signal that the State also recognises the achievements of firms for apprenticeship training, and that is important and essential. There are also high savings of the public hand through a functioning apprenticeship training. Because if everyone went to school, the burden would have a completely different effect. If you look at this site, i.e. these savings through a successful apprenticeship training, you can say that this allowance, which has been agreed - I believe - is a well-established money for the future. Especially important, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is also the development of new teaching professions, which can only become more sustainable in the medium term. It is certainly necessary to implement the measures as quickly as possible and to take new steps. That's very important. It is now also possible - I can say this - to introduce new teaching professions quickly and unbureaucratically in line with the needs of the individual industries. Now we have agreed that we want to do something like that, and we will do the same. Because not to do that would, of course, be the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen! There are already regulations by the Minister of Economic Affairs, for example, in the high-tech sector or in the service sector. There is a good overall cooperation between the Ministries responsible. I don't want to list the individual professions. In any case, with such new teaching professions, we can offer many new training opportunities. Let us therefore take this path together, I believe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The agreement in the National Action Plan on experiments with part or teaching is also the result of a long-term call for the economy. It certainly took longer to agree on it, but we did it. In any case, we are on the right path here, too, if we implement it rationally and well. New teaching occupations, teaching and more flexibilization in the legal framework together with the cost reliefs form a basis for receiving an apprenticeship for all suitable and interested young people, i.e. all volunteers and those able to learn. That's our goal! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In Austria, we are not content with the lowest youth unemployment, we want to eliminate it as much as possible when it goes. At any rate, the way must go in this direction. The economy wants to strengthen our proven dual apprenticeship training, as only it guarantees employability and, by the way, more and more appeals to other EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the first successes of the 1997 apprenticeship package are already visible today, and I am confident that the 1998 apprenticeship package will continue this successful path from the National Employment Action Plan. I would like to ask you all to help us go this way to envy the many other countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1948	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e1966	Mr President. My dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are lucky that at this time there is already a bit of air coming out of the debate. After today's debate on the case of Rosenstingl was very intense, the debate is currently taking a bit of fun. Above all, since Mr Maderthaner sprayed good incense, it is difficult to find a way back into reality without dramatizing. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I believe that this is difficult!]] However, the situation is not really so unproblematic, Mr Maderthaner. They discussed the first successes of the apprenticeship programme in 1997. Let me therefore make a few comments. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The right thing is: The apprenticeship programme 1997 brought 3,000 additional apprentices under the line. This is correct and good, but, Mr Maderthaner - and this is also the reason why you are not dissatisfied - has cost a lot of money - it has also been said - with confidence. This has cost not only 1.2 billion schilling for the AMS and the abolition of the health insurance contribution, but also the Upper Austria, for example, a few hundred million schillings, which were not accidentally given very generously in one election year, and also the municipalities very much. All over the world, head quotas, premiums have been awarded, by the federal government, by countries and communities, so that we can say in total: For these 3,000 additional apprentices, a sum of between 2 billion and 3 billion schilling was given directly to the companies. [[Abg. Steibl: Wouldn't that have been done?]] This means annual funding per apprentice of 1 million schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's wrong!]] Nevertheless, there are still some without employment. However, we know from the experience gained with the apprenticeship project that companies have been right to take preferred action. That is, they recorded apprentices in the previous year, which they actually wanted to record only in 1998. However, because of the favourable funding of the most diverse bodies - not only from the AMS sector, but also from the countries and communities - this has already been done in 1997. And this effect is not repeatable in 1998; you know, Mr Madethaner, that is what everyone who is concerned with matter knows. Since this is a big problem, you can't be so proud of the following "total" invention - "toll" under quotation marks: We have to think of something new! The young people who actually want a job now want to stay on the school bench with some incentive premiums, without first of all providing them with a meaningful perspective and qualification, and that is the problem. In some cases, however, I would argue that some of the measures put in place for 1998/1999 are really very helpful to young people. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Do you have alternatives?]] Mr Maderthaner! The problem is that you want to disappear over realities in the interests of cosmetically beautiful numbers. First of all, it is about presenting balance sheets which can be shown to the public that one can say: Look what we've done! [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Why do other countries have no better value?]] However, the problem is only described in an approach, Mr Maderthaner, because another part of the problem can be found in the AMS. On the other hand, the costs for this apprenticeship campaign have also been incurred, first in Upper Austria - I say not by chance, for the election year - and then - in Lower Austria - that the AMS, especially that in Lower Austria, is pleading. There is no further increase in funding that could be spent in 1998 for other groups, but also for apprentices. The funds have been used up until the last Heller and Pfennig, Mr Maderthaner. - I know. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: What the education of an academic costs, you know, too, is an academic who won't get a job afterwards!]] I am also ready to talk about it, Mr Maderthaner. One thing is already noted at this point: It is not enough simply to put the young people on the school bench and tell them: It's still better, you're sitting on a school bench than you're on the street! It would be a little more necessary to consider the interests of these young people, their needs after work, their meaningful employment, their needs. I have heard in the debates - especially with Mr Peter - that it is only the interests of the economy and that the young people should be guided by what the economy tells them. It can't be! Every person - including every youth - has a right to make a training that meets his or her needs. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: That's why there are over 200 teaching professions!]] They must - and this is also a process of growing up, an integral part - deal with it together with their teachers - whether their needs are satisfied by society, by the economy. But they have this right. And granting this right, ladies and gentlemen, is not only covered by saying: Visit schools, and when you're done, you have to take on at least some job - even if we have nothing to do with you! We have developed the garden center merchant, the system gastronomy, the solar protection engineer as a "total" new professional imagery in teaching, because nothing has come up with us. In recent years, we have repeatedly said that we want to make land professions that enable a broad, comprehensive qualification, but in the end we have only come to think of it because it is, after all, a cheap teaching in some areas. Mr Maderthaner! They know for themselves: Gartencenterkaufmann, System gastronomy or Solar Plant Manufacturer will not become the teaching occupations of the year 2000, with which we can renouncate internationally, in respect of which, as with the examples you have done, some foreign business will ask if it may have an Austrian garden center merchant. That someone will take us from our system gastronomy, which was trained at McDonald's in a cheap teaching - more is it not - I dare doubt. But that's still only part of the problem. I think the young people have a right to training, to sensible training, and they also have a right to free choice of profession. But if we are only talking about this - and I have heard nothing else; not primarily of you, but of others very well - that young people have to be oriented to the interests of the economy, and that, if there are only 3,000 teaching places open to them, the 3 000 job seekers must occupy exactly these open teaching places, then that is not the right thing; you know that too. It is not everyone born for the profession of a carver, a baker - or where otherwise places are free. However, young people have a right to find a profession corresponding to their expectations. It is a question of whether efforts have been made under the National Employment Plan to ensure that young people have their right to do so. I have great doubts in this respect. Since I have been dealing with the question of apprentices for a relatively long time now, I would like to draw some basic comments on this National Action Plan. Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! They have explained that it is a very extensive and concrete programme. I must say: This program was more concrete once. There have already been steps on this path to the NAP, in which more was contained. At that time, the speech of measures, instruments, including funding targets, finally came out of a very toothless paper, but you explained to us in your speech that a small amount of additional funding could be achieved for 1999. But the NAP does not end in 1999, but in 2002, and I think you know just as well as I do that funding is far from guaranteed. Because the NAP - and that starts the problem - is in its foundations only a modest cosmetic answer to the Stability Pact. I would like to remind you of the history of this National Employment Action Plan, ladies and gentlemen. First, there was the Stability Pact, which leads governments to strict budgetary discipline. However, in many EU Member States, political developments in these countries have been slow, also due to the following: This cannot be anything that constitutes the European integration process: that we all exercise budgetary discipline at the same time and thus perhaps still minimize employment, we must do something in the employment field too! And the great idea was born: Employment policy! This chapter in the Union Treaty, which finally looked out, was, however, a somewhat toothless answer, because some Member States have refused to take action on employment policy, such as the Federal Republic of Germany under its Mr Kohl, whose policy can be studied, where it leads if there is no employment policy for 4.5 million unemployed. Since the Member States could not agree on a common employment policy, these national action plans have emerged. First of all, this is the background to what we are discussing now. So you don't need to beat yourself proudly to the chest, but you have to say: It is actually very little what we have achieved and implemented within the European Union, because we actually wanted more. But you don't say that! Now I guess you don't want to - and that's where the problem starts! The next problem is that of this action plan of the 15th century. In April, the following is the view: There are no sums, what the fat is for a national action plan, the money! It is no longer available, it is only a bit more planned for the year 1999, but everything is missing. Mrs Federal Minister, you shake your head, but I also refer to a resolution by the Upper Austria Chamber of Labour. This calls on the Federal Government not only to ensure the necessary resources for the implementation of the National Employment Action Plan not only for 1999, but also for the period 2000 to 2002. It is said in this resolution: The necessary increase of funds by 2002 at least 3.5 billion Schilling can be financed. The General Assembly considers it totally unacceptable if the National Employment Plan fails to provide insufficient funding, but at the same time removes billions of money from the labour market service for budget recovery. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: In this House they will be decided!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! That was the debate that we have held in recent weeks: that unemployment insurance has actually been withdrawn from the budget of 33 billion schilling in the last decade and, of course, it is missing for active employment policy. Similarly, the chairman of a trade union who is not unknown to you, Mr Sallmutter of the GPA, says. He also wants the permanent guarantee of financing. According to the report, it is supposed to be around 3.5 billion schilling that is necessary, as he thinks, as it is. I would like to point out that, in the beginnings of the National Employment Plan, not only 3.5 billion by 2002 or from 2002, but 3.5 billion each year were considered to be useful. However, there are other opinions, such as those of the labour market policy experts of the Economic Research Institute, Mr Pichelmann. He says we have to double the labour market policy effort. - I'll come to your numbers, Mrs. Federal Minister. I believe that although this doubling of the funds is necessary, it would still be insufficient to ensure the measures that Austria actually needed. I would like to point out, Mrs Federal Minister, that, as far as expenditure on active labour market policy is concerned, we have, as I have put it, taken up the figures, not only in terms of GDP, but also in terms of the number of unemployed, in Europe, but also in terms of the fact that only more countries are behind us, with which we should not better compare ourselves on this issue, namely Spain with 0.03% of GDP in terms of a percentage point unemployment, the United Kingdom with 0.06 percentage points per percent unemployment and Luxembourg with 0.08 percent. Austria has 0.09 percentage points per percent unemployment. This is not the total amount of money spent in GDP, but rather the number of unemployed. We are finally in Europe! There are countries, especially those currently successful in active labour market policy, such as Denmark, which spend four times of it, the Federal Minister, namely 0.38 percent of GDP, referring to 1 percent unemployment. That is converted, that is not the numbers that are always used and, in my view, are not meaningful, but these are the converted figures for the unemployed. And we are far behind, we have a quarter of the funds of the Danes in terms of 1% unemployment. However, other invoices are also possible to make clear to you the drama, especially in the field of emergency aid, Mrs Bundesminister. If the figures issued in Austria for active labour market policy are calculated high and they are related to emergency workers, then it is hoped that funding will not rise since the early 1990s, but will fall - excluding the funds of the European Social Fund. And with that I am in an area that I would like to mention. Mrs. Federal Minister! There has been a promise that Austria's commitment to accession to the EU will not be reduced national funds for active labour market policies. By activating passive means, you have succeeded in Defaultizing this promise. And that's the problem! Although we have higher resources for active labour market policies, we have only converted something from passive resources into active services. - It's a possibility, I'm not against it. But if you see, on the other hand, that what happened in this area in 1997 was actually just business promotion without too many and all too good employment effects, you have to say: These subsidies in the area of special integration aid should also be examined more precisely whether they actually bring about the effect which you - I hope - want to definitely have, in fact, to ensure permanent employment. But that's only part of the problem, Mrs. Federal Minister. In order to have the resources actually available for the future or for the duration of this National Action Plan period, it is necessary to: They are already fighting here in Parliament for the Minister of Finance, who in 1999 in any case takes away 9 billion from the budget of unemployment insurance, to loosen his access to the unemployment insurance funds for the following years, that instead of 9 billion schilling, it will only be more than 4 billion or the 4.9 billion already set up in the budget. But I suspect, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will not prevail against the Minister of Finance, because two souls also live in your breasts. On the other hand, you also have to finance and account for pension insurance, and since this is also included in your department, you will be satisfied that the funds will still be re-turned at least for pension insurance. I think this - and I have told you this more often, Mrs Federal Minister - is a completely wrong approach, because pensions can only be safeguarded permanently if they succeed in creating employment, to an extent far beyond the existing one. Because you know one thing, too. The 100 000 additional jobs you promise - whether they are automatically generated by the economy or they are generated by measures in your sector or in other economic areas - are not all full-time jobs! If you have studied the budget, you know that the income from these additional jobs in the area of social security financing has been reduced, because it is partly only jobs that are not well secured which do not bring good income. And so right and important it is that there are now 100 000 additional jobs, it will not be enough to make all our efforts in terms of employment credible. As long as you, ladies and gentlemen, are not ready to think at international level, but also at national level beyond the existing measures, not only in categories of enterprise promotions, but also, for example, over time reduction,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2095	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2110	... as long as you are not willing to think about a real employment policy, this NAP will remain as what I have called it: a fake! That's why he's a fake, because he's not with...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2129	If you are going to end the final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2144	It is therefore a fake because it cannot be adequately secured with money.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2171	After taking into account the Minutes, I have two calls for order, Mr. Dr. Maitz, for the use of the word "drug sluder" and Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Haider, for the accusation to Mrs. Col. Fekter that she has probably been "serious" in terms of nature protection permits. We will now continue in the list of speakers. Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2196	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Oellinger! Just one sentence to your remarks: I believe that it is all better to have young people in school, in the class, on the school bench than to leave them on the street. I agree, of course, if you require young people to be trained according to their expectations and needs. I mean, higher education is at the same time a guarantee for a higher professional opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me continue with a few comments on the field of education of the National Employment Action Plan. Other points will be taken up by me by my colleagues. I'd like to start with a few facts. Fact & at least: As early as the previous year, the Federal Government launched a special programme at the initiative of our Federal Chancellor Climate to combat the threat of youth unemployment. It has also been pointed out that more than 1 billion schilling has been invested by the labour market service for this purpose. A large number of support measures have been put in place. It is gratifying that it was possible to teach 3,000 additional apprenticeships. A remarkable success! Fact two: In the period 1987-1995, the number of young people who have not completed further education after their compulsory schooling is 8.9 percent. We need to note today - and this is a very unfortunate situation - that 12 percent of compulsory school leavers now leave compulsory school without taking up further training. The reasons for this are certainly, on the one hand, declines in the range of apprenticeships, on the other hand, a lack of training places, particularly in the field of middle and higher education. In my opinion, I also believe that the necessary considerations and planning measures are missing in order to respond to the needs of the economy in good time. Fact three: Demographic trends show that by 2010 the age group of 15 years will remain relatively strong. Every year, some 95 000 to 99 000 young people will need a school training place or a dual training place. Fact four: In the autumn of 1998, some 10,000 young people will not be able to find an apprenticeship in the labour market, despite intensive research. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is precisely against this background that there will be a difficult situation on the apprenticeship market in autumn, that ÖGB, the Chamber of Labour, SPÖ and ÖVP have proposed the creation of new teaching professions and the temporary establishment of special measures. [[Abg. Meisinger: Five years already announced!]] We have also suggested reducing the high number of school rejections in middle and higher education. We Socialists have also pointed out that it will be necessary to rethink once again the repetitious ban on the first classes of these vocational and higher schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we Socialists assume that the youth of our Republic has a right to qualified education and training. It is therefore the responsibility of the public authorities and, in particular, the task of the teaching body to ensure the necessary training opportunities. Thank you, Madam Minister of Education! I cannot understand it to this day and, ultimately, I do not accept that at that time, when it came to the adoption of the National Action Plan, you have been delayed for so long. I believe that this has lost valuable preparation time. I could also understand your statement that the vocational and partly also the schooling of apprentices is not necessarily your job. I should like to say once again to the SPÖ that in addition to many other measures to address the problem of job seekers, the vocational training school would have been the best solution. This is also the view expressed by the Court of Auditors. I think that many of your objections and concerns, Mrs Bundesminister, to the vocational school, are relatively easy to overcome. The dual training was never and never questioned by the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] In our view, it was merely a matter of offering a voluntary offer on time for those young people who did not find a place to teach. On the basis of a 1997 survey, the Labour Market Service confirmed that 50 percent of young people seeking apprenticeships at the time would have been very willing to make use of a school offer such as vocational school. The vocational training school would not be in practice at all, but would meet the requirements of vocational training with two thirds of practice in workshops, businesses and laboratories and a third general education and training. Nor would the legal implementation in the school laws have meant that big step you were afraid of. Of course, we welcome the compromise reached - I call it the second best solution - and hope that the agreed measures will now be taken at expert level quite quickly. In particular, it is a question of reconciling the possibility of a primary school degree. It is about the need to abolish the prohibition of repe­tiers at secondary and higher schools. The aim is to increase the retention rate while taking into account the high quality standard in this school system through educational and didactic measures, as well as the consistent implementation of new forms of teaching and learning, and the offer of courses in vocational schools or in appropriate schools. These measures may mean: The follow-up to the primary school could keep about 1,000 pupils in education. By abolishing the prohibition on reptiles, some 2,000 young people could remain in school institutions longer. The increase in retention rates may also allow some 2,000 young people to stay in school. Furthermore, if we assume that apprenticeships can take in around 1,500 apprentices and can be accommodated in vocational courses of around 2,500 young people, we will be able to provide a total of around 9 000 young people who could receive qualified training or receive the basis for further training. Finally, let me point out that we will need support for the professional maturity examination decided last year. We know that the cost of preparation courses for vocational training in Austria is up to 30 000 S per participant. We Socialists will continue to take massive steps to ensure that students such as AHS and BHS will be able to obtain this professional maturity examination free of charge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will not help us if we are criticized by one or the other side of the National Action Plan on Employment. What will and will be very helpful to us is a joint effort to fully implement the contents of this action plan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2260	Mr Blünegger, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2279	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Hostasch! Mrs Gehrer! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Today, when I heard Mrs Hostasch's statement on "National Action Plan on Employment", which is lovingly called NAP, I felt as if we were in Austria in a slaring country. There is nothing to read about unemployment in Austria, about the fact that workers are becoming long-term unemployed, and probably only because the employment policy of this Federal Government is not correct. With the National Action Plan on Employment, Mrs Minister, you have delivered a political masterpiece that will surely go into the history of Austria, which is unique in the history of employment policy, for it is the staging of a plan that can be compared to a theatre donor. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: There it is noticed that you do not come from the base if you do not know what will be achieved with it!]] I'm sure I'm at the base, I'm standing with both legs in my professional life and I'm sure how workers lose their jobs, how the number of apprentices is getting fewer and how long-term unemployed no longer get jobs. This is the problem we have to solve today, and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing I can say for sure now: This paper does not cover any employment measures. Even your own head of AK, Herbert Tumpel, criticises that this will not create another job. You can read this in the "Tyrol Newspaper". The President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, Maderthaner, also calls for the funding to be clarified. I am now quoting an article from the "Tyrol daily", in which the AK chief Herbert Tumpel criticizes that the companies should receive 240 million schillings of support, without creating another apprenticeship. On the other hand, Federal Chamber President Leopold Maderthaner criticises that the economy would be relieved by 200 million schilling, but in 1998 and 1999 500 million schilling for over-company training facilities would take place. The question of financing is therefore to be asked immediately. - We can also see from these statements what the NAP is actually worth. If we look more closely at the common position of the social partners, which is set out on page 7 of the NAP, we can see that this common position is really only on paper, because it calls on the Austrian Federal Government to participate in the National Action Plan, the ÖGB, the BAK, the Federal Economic Chamber and the Industrial Union. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Maderthaner has today praised how well our economy is doing, and in this context he has praised the social partners. However, as far as technology promotion is concerned, for which Parliament would have to decide higher sums in the budget, he said something wrong here. In international comparison, Austria's R & D expenditure rate is 1.5 percent below the EU average, which is 1.8 percent, and also far below the OECD average, which is 2.2 percent. It can be seen that very little has been done in this area. The declared objective of this employment plan is also to create 100 000 jobs. However, if the labour market service itself confirms that these 100 000 jobs are anyway created by the good international economic development, I wonder what this employment plan actually entails. In January of this year, Wifo Chief Professor Kramer declared in the "press hour" that this Federal Government, with this employment plan, wants to get only laurels for something that comes from the house from the economy itself. Austria is making fun of this statement at European level, especially when it comes to the fact that this government, which wanted to enforce employment policy measures in the other European countries, is now unable to put in place sensible employment measures itself. The National Action Plan on Employment contains only cosmetic solutions from the point of view of the Freeman. The real causes for the lack of apprenticeships in Austria have not been treated. However, they would have had a great opportunity to develop productive solutions. In this context, I would like to recall the decision taken by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In December 1997, a subcommittee was set up to deal intensively with the problem of apprenticeship training. Today we already have May 1998, and the first subcommittee meeting will not take place until 3 December 1998. ==References== This important committee must wait half a year for Parliament to tackle the problems of apprentices. Is this still a serious policy preferred by this coalition government? Is the Commission aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances is a matter for the European Parliament and the Council? - I believe that with this procedure, this Federal Government shows that it does not take the problem of apprenticeship training very seriously. But we are faced with a situation in the apprenticeship sector which requires that we deal with this problem as quickly as possible. We therefore call for tax relief in the case of business start-ups, debureaucratisation at all levels, the flexibility of working time and the reduction of labour costs. The flexibility of working time, Mr Peter, must not only be carried out at the expense of the workers, because to make some progress and then to get the intermediate performance postponed is not a flexibilization. [[Abg. May. Peter: mutual!]] In addition, we want the expansion of technical universities and the concentration on new careers and so on. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! Unemployment goes through the country like a new regime of fear intimidating people. We liberals certainly cannot give our consent to this National Action Plan on Employment, because it is inexorable, it is empty.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2333	Mr Feurstein has also been reported on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2361	Mr President. My dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that, when we discuss labour market policy and employment policy, we always deal with policies against one another. I really regret that you have done this again from the FPÖ by operating with keywords here. Not of about did Mr Blünegger end with the words "and so on" in the list of demands of the FPÖ. This is not an alternative, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Mr Mag. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Peter, I've really been following your statements very seriously. I also believe that we are in a huge structural change as regards labour market policy and economic policy. But this structural change is the result of the production process. I consider more and more people to be involved in other areas to be an opportunity, as an opportunity that young people thank God always again and again. If you are pursuing the successes and awards of young people, you can see that the young people are prepared for these conflicts. They may not be sufficiently equipped for all areas. But I consider it a great step forward that for the first time in this National Action Plan - and I very much welcome this - education policy has been given the importance it deserves. This is a very important new accent, which has been included in this action plan, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very grateful to the Federal Minister Gehrer for having pulled the emergency brake, for having made excessive demands and for having been carried out unnecessary activities in this area. I am very grateful to her that she has looked at the right and, with her influence, has prepared this national action plan for employment in education policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, a paradigm shift has been made in labour market policy over the last four years, which has been initiated by the exclusion of labour market administration from government administration and the establishment of the new labour market service. The essential thing is that in the labour market service the social partners are fully integrated, fully involved and able to make their views known, ladies and gentlemen. This is a fundamental reorientation of labour market policy, and I believe that this step, which we have taken in 1993 and 1994, has had such an effect that we have probably been able to keep unemployment in Austria low for this reason. This reorientation has, of course, led to - and this has been criticised by Mr Oellinger - that funds from the so-called passive labour market policy - I do not like this word at all, i.e. means of unemployment insurance to resources for employment of people have been diverted, that emergency aid recipients can be employed and that emergency aid has continued to be available. In my opinion, this is an immense progress. This action does not take long, we can still show too few results. But it is a very important step to bring emergency aid workers back into employment. That was successful. We have achieved great success here, ladies and gentlemen. If the National Action Plan on Employment says that 20 percent of the services - and I call it now - should be converted into funds for active labour market policies, I see this as a continuation of this focus on labour market policy, which we fully welcome and support, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I hope you support this project as much as we do. What's this about? - We want not only to be paid unemployment benefit and emergency aid, but also to provide more support to unemployed, job-seekers and counsellors. We want to strengthen cooperation with entrepreneurs in the field of labour market policy. The activities of the labour market service with entrepreneurs need to be strengthened. Finally, this will help to increase the number of mediations that can be increased by labour market service measures. Ladies and gentlemen! This has actually occurred in recent years, from 1994 to 1998. The number of mediations has actually increased, and this is a success of the labour market policy we have pursued, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to mention numbers now. Many have already been mentioned today. But if in four years the resources of active labour market policy are actually 27 percent... [[Abg. Meisinger: Where are they in the budget?]] - These can be read in the accounts of the Federal Government in the Social Budget chapter. In 1994 there were 5.6 billion schilling, in 1997 7.1 billion schilling, so there was an increase. [[Abg. Meisinger: How's it going?]] The Minister has already said that. She said there would be a further increase in 1999. Of course, the 1999 budget has not yet been implemented. So there is clear progress to be made. However, I would also like to say that I think that some things are too slow. I mean, above all, the flexibility of working time. Ladies and gentlemen! We have decided on a compromise-based labour-time flexibility law. But the opportunities it offers for workers, for the economy, for all, are too little, ladies and gentlemen. This is particularly the case in the night work of women. Last week, leading companies in Vorarlberg reported: Yes, we would immediately employ women, reduce women's unemployment if the flexibility of the social partners in the textile industry and the food industry had been implemented. For me, this point is the example of Mr Nürnberger with his union. He did it. He had the courage to say: Yes, this is to be determined by companies themselves through business agreements. A compliment to Mr Nürnberger, but also the call to the two other trade unions, in the textile industry and in the food industry, to do the same. [[Abg. Meisinger: In practice it looks different again! They're just statements of intent!]] The company Wolford would immediately take up women. Also the company Suchard, the well-known company that produces super chocolate, would immediately employ women, ladies and gentlemen. [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] Sorry! Bones and chocolate. Thank you for the suggestion. Bonbons produce them and above all the "lilac chocolate with the Alpine cow". [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Advertising event!]] I must make a little advertising for the entrepreneurs in Vorarlberg. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Get away with the humour! - It's about business environment. It is about eliminating distortions of competition, which is very important. It is about creating a national atmosphere of mutual trust. We therefore welcome this National Action Plan because it sets out exactly what workers, employees, entrepreneurs and businesses expect to do in concrete measures in the field of employment policy and labour market policy, from apprentices to women, from simple auxiliary workers to highly qualified skilled skilled workers. This action plan is a good tool, the basis for mutual trust, creating a good atmosphere in the economy for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2479	Mr Dr Kier has also spoken. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2497	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! High house! The course of today is that a very important chapter already suffers a bit from the exhaustion of the Members of this House, which is very bad - also "time in the picture" of course, but, moreover, I think, already a certain amount of energy consumption - because this National Employment Plan would justify or make any effort necessary in the debate. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: "Time in the picture"!]] The paper is a collection of things that are well meant, but whose operational part is underdeveloped. In this context, I should like to refer in particular to the comments made by Mr Oellinger, who is not in the Chamber at the moment: In the first drafts there was also an interim heading "financing" for each sub-chapter, which is now missing in the document faxed to Brussels, in this last-minute document, which was faxed to Brussels in close compliance with the deadlines. It lacks the statements on financing, and that is a pity, because this would have been a way of evaluating this National Employment Plan in the period of progress. It would have been possible to see whether the financial resources provided for here are actually used in the same way as the individual chapters of the plan, or with what efficiency and so on. I shall now be holding back from my colleague, Mr Feurstein, the figures are in the budget - that is undoubtedly right, there they will find themselves somewhere - but it would have been the very sense of this National Employment Plan, whose grid was given to us from Europe, that we should be assigned to the financial statements. This does not mean that the funds would have been increased, but they would have been assigned to them functionally. Any plan, whatever the claim to be evaluable, must contain statements that are accessible to the evaluation; for example, time progress between stages when one intends to achieve something, financial statements and the like. That's not what this paper says. On the contrary: It is striking on this paper that some statements and intentions are repeated in several places, so to speak, using the blessings of word processing in several places, which makes the entire document a few more pages, but no longer in statements. After all, if you have studied it consistently, you will come to it: Actually, everything is compressed on page 3 in the summaries on half a page. Everything else is only more decorated, redundant repetition. What I'm saying now may go back to the accusation that it would be so instructive, but I don't mean that in this case: If this were a seminar work that one of my students gave me, I would send it to him, because I am a softhearted person, with the request, perhaps a few pages less to deliver a few more statements for it. That is why I am sorry because we have a wealth of opportunity to devote more intensively to employment. My colleague Helmut Peter pointed out some of the essential elements, namely the dynamic working world and the need to rethink our social systems from scratch, whether they still fit in with this dynamic working world. One thing is certain, and this is logically not included in this National Employment Plan: The current social systems are no longer working here. The number of those who are excluded is increasing rapidly. Klubobmann Khol is not in the hall now, but his interview, which he gave to Mrs. Krawagna-Pfeifer in the "Standard", was a cornerstone, namely the announced refusal to support people who are long-term unemployed, with the claim that they are people who tachinate. And that with a ratio of 25,000 job vacancies to 250,000 unemployed! I would like to congratulate the government parties on finding out theachinians among the 225 000 jobseekers who do not face open jobs. I wonder how they're gonna do that. If a national employment plan of such a mind, of such a clog Spirit is accompanied, then he is under an unsister. Otherwise, for example, if my colleague Helmut Peter asked for radical reconstruction, rethinking and new solidarity in connection with the concept of 'basic security', not immediately President Maderthaner, who is also my President and whom I would prefer to have in the Chamber, and who, without compulsorily joining the House, because I think it is incompatible to sit in this House and at the same time to make a policy of interest, would call out that this is something for any of the Tacinians, and also Mr Luke would not be so excited about it. This, of course, is exactly the subject of the Kholsche directive: Whoever doesn't work, don't eat. Listening to that from a Christian party is really disappointing. You might need to talk to the social and economic politicians of the CDU occasionally, once you have time, and break out of the Austrian Schreberg species. There one begins to deal precisely with these considerations and even writes them in the electoral programmes. So you don't even fear your own voters there to demand such a thing. This would be the ground on which a dynamic and flexible working world could develop. But now from the employment plan as such to the total content, that is to say page 3 from the middle: The 100 000 people you want to re-employed within the next five years are exactly the same number - we have already done this in the Committee and in the debate - that the Wifo has predicted in a study prepared for the AMS in January of this year as the expected increase in employment, but not for the next five years of today, but for the next four years. I already admit that such forecasts of the Wifo are subject to uncertainty, but the Wifo is more conservative and careful in forecasts, and this forecast of the Wifo has been made without the employment programme. Now the government is making an employment programme and announces that it will allow 100 000 new employees, i.e. the Wifo's calculated trend is presented as the result of a plan. And that is, I think, a pity, because I would have meant that if one made a plan, he would have to put on the trend, strengthen it and produce a more. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: These are valued numbers!]] It is true, Mr Feurstein, but I believe that if the documents are so close to each other and the Wifo has predicted more than 100 000 employees in January, when Feber, March, April, and now there are 100 000 in May in the National Employment Plan, then in case of doubt, this is simply the same 100 000. It is the same 100 000, so this employment plan is apparently borne by a certain pessimism. However, it could be expected that faxing the paper to Brussels will not be available in the Wifo study in Brussels. But by now this has been discussed until Brussels, and it will be read there. Fortunately, you will tell me now that Austria has the Presidency of the Council at the time when this paper will be evaluated, and we will not be so strict with ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Stronger!]] But that's not how it's going to be! The evaluation of this paper will not be carried out by the Austrian social partners alone, but at the public stage in Brussels. And that can become an hour of truth. Believe me, because what's standing here is partly really embarrassing! For example, the "founder wave": I have heard of this "founder wave" since this coalition, namely since 1987. At that time, Robert Graf, the late Minister of Economic Affairs, spoke of it, then it was Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, then it was Ditz. They all announced this "founder wave." We should already be under water from loud waves of founders, but I do not see all of this. On the contrary: Talk to people who really want to make themselves independent, not to those who just hang out a taferl somewhere and say: I'm a computer trainer now! , but with those who really want to employ people too. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is an honorable profession!]] That's not very easy. Only until they managed to overcome the obstacles of compulsive membership in the Chamber. This is the interesting thing: On the one hand, one has to be a member, on the other hand one will be severely hindered from becoming a member because the chambers lay strange barriers before the start of work. We last had an interesting discussion on the value of qualifications on the trade association day of the business consultants. This was really an interesting discussion, because there was no one there to disprove that the actual qualification of the economic operator is the market. Every day, skills must prove to be in relation to customers, to contractors, or whatever you want to call them. Of course you need a well-founded training, but the training is not everything. Training is the prerequisite, and the subsequent development of the qualification is essential. However, I don't read about further qualifications in this paper. But that would be the driving force, because if you want to pray for the individual 100 000 jobs, that will be of no use to you. You have to start where multipliers are moving in the labour market, and the multipliers in the labour market are the potential employers, the founders of companies. You are the former multipliers in the labour markets, and there you are, with permission, doing nothing. Statistics show deficits with regard to the self-employed rate, and only if you write in "founder wave" does not do so. In terms of employment rates, you can easily write that you want a further increase in employment rates. - That's what I'm for. It also says: Greater measures are needed to ensure equal opportunities for men and women. - Yes, then look for the measures that deal with the production of equal opportunities for men and women! They do not find them serious except in the form of Sunday formulas. Don't get me wrong. There's nothing exactly operational! When we discussed women's people's desire here in the House, you would have had the opportunity to take a real step at the constitutional level, but as it were, you stayed in a half step. This is actually the tragic thing about this employment programme: that it was still suitable for the time limit not to be missed to send a document to Brussels. This function has fulfilled it, but what it will actually accomplish in the labour market really must remain more than just put it. For the first time that education policy has been discovered - my colleague Schaffenrath will perhaps go into it, and Mr Feurstein has rightly praised it - I must say: Now we write the year 1998! And now a member of a government party, a highly-deserved social spokesperson, Mr Feurstein, has to produce and rejoice that education policy will be discovered for the first time as an element of labour market policy. Yes, please, everyone who deals with it has known for decades that this is the prerequisite for successful development. And what has happened in Austria so far was apparently just a coincidence? Or the much-promised dual training: She's really something important. There is a need for reform, and there are also proposals by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party - I do not want to be bored with them now - only if you want to develop this on professional images which the Chamber is inventing will not do so, because the Chamber is much slower than professional images actually develop on the market. That is why you must finally consider how you create ways in dual training that are not static but dynamic. Because the garden center merchant, who is actually someone, is guarding the self-service areas on which garden equipment and plants are sold, is not a future professional image, but is a narrow-track merchant. This also applies to the sectoral gastronomy - or as that means; I have not noticed this term at all - so for the assistant at McDonald's. That's not a real job. - System gastronomy. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: System gastronomy!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: The system host!]] Thank you. System gastronomy - that sounds great. I see the shining eyes of a fourteen-year-old when he hears he can become a system gastronomy. He might think he's on his way to the hood cook. In reality, he is on his way to the auxiliary worker because he simply learns hand-outs in a fully automated fast-food bag placed on microwave. It's good too, yes, but it's not dual training. Get me right! That's a problem. At the end of the day, there is only one guide from this page 3: the technical infrastructure. That's what I'm looking forward to. I thought that now you have noticed that it would be one of the State's tasks in economic policy to take care of the development of infrastructure. But there it's very bad. In the field of transport policy Austrian railways are shut down, in the international context - I am now talking about rail - nothing is done, with the foreseeable result that at the end all Austrian railways will be secondary railways, because we will not be connected to the European network, and in the field of communication all parts of the country are steppe. I say this consciously: Communication steppe. I know some people who would very much like to move their businesses to the forest district, to the southern Styria, to the Mühlviertel, because they are completely independent of the location due to their operating structure and would also like to have the benefits of working in a pleasant environment. However, these are sometimes high-tech companies in the communications industry. They tell you something if they insist that there are no ISDN lines there, they tell you something if they insist that they can't go there with the company because they don't find there the infrastructure they need for the site. The fact that the streets are bad there, they still take it into account, because they do not have to commut so often when they work there, that perhaps some of them are not the best, they are still calling in, but if you do not provide them with the life lines, namely the technology, the structures for data transport in this case, then they remain in the bile room and do not move out. They would have had companies in the country which are the nucleus for the further development of other possibilities, but nothing happens. On the contrary: There, "Rudi Ratlos" sits in the post and considers how he can cover the deficits that the government has burdened him. The "Rudi Ratlos" in this case is called Ditz and does not know what to do with his over 100 billion schilling debts. But there is nothing going on in the area of infrastructure, although this would have been the key response to an innovative economic policy. If you do something about the infrastructure, you might actually exceed the trend of the Wifo study by 50,000 jobs. If you don't do anything in these areas, then the Wifo may have been right, but it's not on this plan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2601	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2619	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! I had an invitation in my hands today: "National action plan for employment - Austrian priorities - European perspectives". This is the event that the Federal Minister should have been at for an hour. I say this only because it is very important in a common Europe that national and international efforts are made to achieve employment. And it is Austria's merit that in the EU, where monetary and economic policy has been exclusively governing so far, employment and even the social dimension now have a higher priority. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] At the Luxembourg Employment Summit in December 1997, 19 guidelines were adopted. Now all the participating countries have drawn up a National Employment Action Plan. I do not need to mention the four pillars, they have been mentioned several times today, but one point in the field of youth is my concern. Mr Oellinger meant that all young people would have a right to choice of profession. I share this view, but, as my colleague Antoni has said, it is always important for me to have young people longer in school - with all the help and support provided for in the Action Plan - before I have them on the street - without prospects! I know this from my own experience. I couldn't choose the profession I wanted. At that time, of course, the times were different. But if you give young people perspectives, they can also catch up on some things, I'd mean. The National Action Plan therefore sets out very specific objectives - 100 000 additional jobs in five years - and provides for an accurate observation of the extent to which these measures take place. A first evaluation of these National Action Plans is planned at the EU Council in Vienna in December this year. Mr Oellinger also complained that there was insufficient funding. He said that only until 1999. Yes, Mr Oellinger - he is unfortunately not in the room; I can understand, he will once again feel hunger - we now have the 1999 budget in plenary. The fact that we have to provide for further years over the budgets is certainly natural and has all happened in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! These are quantifiable objectives in employment policy, the improvement of employment and the reduction of unemployment. But employment policy cannot be seen in isolation. This must be a comprehensive and concrete overall strategy, involving all relevant policies and institutions. We've heard it several times today: There are good economic forecasts in Austria. The sustainable development of the Austrian economic location is also a prerequisite for the fulfilment of the NAP. It is not possible to put the head in the sand and pretend that jobs will come by themselves as a result of these forecasts. Ladies and gentlemen, we would all be very surprised, as it would be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The opposition parties simply do not want to take note of the fact that Austria is relatively good. But we can't do something as wrong as you always blame us, because we're still good at international comparison. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: We hear that again and again!]] You're not important to me today. Now please hold your breath, Mr. Cot. I am now dealing with the other groups. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: This is a concept of democracy!]] I said we're pretty good. Mr Peter spoke of the "interparking" of early pensions. - That's clear. But at the same time you have made a proposal for "interparking". They said that they needed the people in the care of the elderly, in childcare. I think that you have also understood that you cannot simply change the way you turn to the road, but that you need qualifications to do so. Or would you trust your child with someone who is unqualified? - I can't imagine this, Mr Peter; not exactly with you. I guess. You very, but as you have brought it, I think that's also a kind of "between parking". Unfortunately, I can't save you that. I said that despite rising employment rates, we also have rising unemployment in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! However, only four countries in Europe had an increasing number of jobs, namely Austria, Norway, Denmark and Ireland; we in Austria have had 6 percent since 1990. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] If you had taken the whole sentence, Mr Oellinger, it would have been exactly that. But I'm glad you're back. Wonderful! We are particularly concerned because we are always responding to the permanent changes, and changes need new ideas, and new concepts need to be developed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also political responsibility to bring these changes, these new concepts, these new ideas to people. Because very often there is rejection for everything that is new. Only the discussions on the euro are heard: The critics, the skeptics speak of an increased competition. I'd say we've had it for a long time. And what does this mean for workers and employers alike? - that only the best-qualified can exist, and that the NAP aims at with its qualification measures, with its first pillar. Let us not talk as if the euro was costing us jobs! The currency turbulence in the past has cost us jobs. I am thinking in this context of the example of the depreciation of currencies in Sweden and Italy. This has cost a lot of jobs. However, I believe that the changed awareness in the EU regarding labour market policy is responsible not only for Austrian persuasion, but also for the fact that these countries have long recognized the impact of unemployment on purchasing power; impact on social security due to lack of contributions and taxes. The fact that there can be no peace without social peace could not be noticed at the latest when people went to the streets in the EU. What helps us increase productivity? Who buys all this? - These countries have already come to the point of not being able to eat money. A role in the NAP is the better distribution of the volume of work. Ladies and gentlemen! This also means reducing overtime; of course, about social partners. When I recently read that in 1996, the overtimes carried out throughout the EU amounted to 2.5 percent of the total volume of self-employed work, I could not believe it myself. This corresponds to 3 to 4 million new jobs. If I turn this over to Austria - and I think the situation is no different in Austria - then it would be 80 000 jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: We have submitted an application!]] Please, Mr. Collegue? [[Abg. Oillinger: We have made a request for this!]] That is what I believe, Mr President. Can I say it anyway? - I will not have liked something in the context of this request. Everything has to be feasible for me. It is also important to combat illegal employment effectively. We have to do it in Austria with a gross loss for the economy of 200 to 250 billion schilling annually. If I now count everything against - fairly - then still 100 billion. I leave you to convert this into jobs. As far as the non-marketable work of social services is concerned, I have already had a dialogue with Mr Peter. So I can save myself from continuing to deal with it. What I think has played a too small role in this whole discussion - and perhaps also in the NAP - is the reduction of working time. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A small reduction in working time would be very quickly offset by production gains today. It should be a significant one to have a positive impact on the labour market. We must certainly not neglect this issue in the future. However, I believe that there is a need for a social partners' agreement and a social security scheme, that you agree with me. In general, we have set ourselves a very ambitious goal with the National Employment Action Plan, but we will be able to implement it all in spite of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2724	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2742	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. It is a pity that we are discussing this national employment plan at such a later hour and with relatively little attention, because I consider it to be a very important measure in which - not to be wrong - not only with the Amsterdam Treaty and the Luxembourg employment summit, but also in the weeks and months after, very much attention is being paid to it; and, of course, and above all, because the unemployment rate has increased steadily and it does not seem to be the case - there would not be drastic measures here now - as if they were going back again. I am therefore sorry that this issue is so little a political debate, although - I have to say that - it is because of or there one of my previous speakers or one of my previous speakers. One thing is striking, in the light of this employment plan, that theory and practice - if I take the practice of the last two or three years - are far different and that nothing corresponds to what you are selling here as a new national employment plan. It is obvious that entirely new measures, which you, particularly from the Socialist Group, clearly attach great expectations and hopes to, are far from practice. [[Abg. Nicer: Yes, we do!]] In fact, there is nothing new here in far-reaching areas - that has also been said by some of my previous speakers - but well-known and old-known. This would not interfere yet, but what bothers me much more, is that exactly those things that have fallen to the victims in recent years all the cuts that had to take place: whether by the savings packages or by the cuts in the AMS area. That is exactly what you are trying to do here again with the national employment programme. I am going to address this and I am going to list some of you, because I have made the effort to look into that federal country in which I am at home, in the Styria, and to listen to those measures which under the chapter "equal opportunities" are covered by those measures which concern women, which have to be further promoted, implemented or shortened or deleted. Mrs. Hostasch! But there's almost nothing left of that, I can tell you. And if I look at this, I think that you, Mrs. Minister, should actually get a "order" in a special way: One year after the women's desire and a three-quarters year after the treatment of women's desire in Parliament, you should actually be given a "order" to you because of the prevention of the measures provided for in the Women's People's Desire. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is not the Minister of Women, but the Minister of Social Affairs!]] The AMS falls into your area. Reductions or deletions fall into your area. And you didn't do anything! On the contrary: They have, of course, made it even more obvious that there are such cuts and deletions! In the employment plan, there is not only a chapter but also a reference to re-entry. Measures designed to help women get back into work are particularly important. On page 19 of the NAP, it is said that it is about qualification and targeted mediation. Under the chapter on equal opportunities, particularly many measures are mentioned in this direction, it is said that these are programmes for re-privileged women. As far as Styria is concerned, I can tell you that precisely these programmes have been deleted over the last two years, because the AMS has just given cuts. Due to the cuts in the area of the AMS, precisely these programmes for re-entry women, such as those of the women's service in Graz, had to be deleted. Measures for re-privileged women had to be deleted! And this, please, is not the only facility that had to do this: There are also other facilities in the Styria that had to delete this. On the qualification courses in the field of the DOCU in Graz: All of this has long been well-proven, good facilities - by the way, by the way, your party always loves to praise. These institutions had to delete precisely these courses. The qualifications in the field of DOCU had to be discontinued, especially for women's management courses. The number of vocational guidance courses - the next chapter of the National Employment Plan - had to be substantially reduced in many areas. A special concern from you - rightly! - in the national employment plan, the situation of girls, of female apprentices: There are also a number of measures to be taken. But precisely these areas had to be shortened or even deleted, for example in the area of the girl consulting center of Malfada. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That is not true!]] I could list you now and still lists! And since you believe that to be able to represent here with credibility, it would change significantly with funds of 1.5 billion schilling - and that is what we have heard again today - including apprenticeship funding? - It's not like that! We can calculate this, we have also made the effort to calculate what that means to the individual federal states, to the AMS, to the individual projects divided. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What happened?]] - It hardly changes anything! This is not an actual increase in the resources available so far. That's not true! In view of the fact that you have had to take back many and essential measures, this means, of course, that structures have also been reduced, qualifications have been reduced in certain areas, for example those women who have implemented these measures. This means that they can start more or less from the front with the means. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The effectiveness is in the quantity, in the quantity!]] The effectiveness of those examples which I have mentioned to you, Mr President, is really high and is also recognised by the AMS Styria; the reintegration rates are above the average. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But only in quantity!]] The quality of these areas, these advisory bodies, these associations that I have listed to you, is high, is good, is recognized. The quality is certainly not bad! It is not that it was only about quantity. The fact is, however, that there was no money for it - and will not be there in the future. Mrs Bauer from Köflach has just stepped in; she has defended this so vehemently before. - I am looking at this, at any rate, and we can look together in the Styria in five years, for example, what will change, what measures can be reintroduced, which can be increased again, in all those areas which have had to be reduced over the last two years. There are also general conclusions, general points which are already giving rise to thought. As this educational programme repeatedly shows that the adoption of training measures - including, of course, the question of advice, training - will be with the institutions of the social partners in the future, I must say to you: In my view, this does not promise anything good; it is also the case with other proposals. Why? - Because I can very well imagine that you do not have the sensitivity to see what offers there are, where there are well-functioning offers, where there are well-functioning structures, which might be better usable, in order to build or set up them instead of other structures, which are also the ones that are talking about, but in part, they were bad. You could also think about it: Where would it be better to increase the possibilities rather than to shift the so-called violent and up-to-date social partnership educational institutions? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Social security education institutions certainly have advantages in many areas, no question! However, in some areas - and this has been demonstrated in the past - it is precisely those institutions, those advisory bodies and associations working on the ground and with the women concerned that are more qualified and appropriate than those which are to be attributed to the social partners as major bodies. The re-entry rates alone prove this! It has something to do with the fact that for a long time these facilities have been very well supported. Let me say one last word, also in the direction of the Social Democratic Party: The adoption of educational and advisory activities, outsourced towards the social partnership educational institutions, would really be the end of experimental labour market policy. That's supposed to be thinking! That was something that your Minister Dallinger introduced a long time ago, and I think it was quite correct, namely with the aim: Where are those affected? Where, as far as possible, can measures be taken to address the needs of both a region, an environment, the regional economy and the unemployed and the unemployed? If you recentralize with your employment plan, you do not do anything good to the whole, and you carry an idea that has been born in your ranks to grave. You should really think about it! Mrs Hostasch, concluded: I note that you have a very unilateral view of what is relevant to women's employment policy. For example, you have arranged childcare facilities under the chapter on equal opportunities. I'd like to tell you: I would be very pleased if you, too, if the Social Democratic colleagues were to say that childcare facilities are also a matter for the fathers. The children also have fathers, and childcare facilities are not alone and only women's employment policies. They should not always, even when it comes to money, be counted on the top side of women. You should be expected on the back of the fathers, the parents, the companies, the businesses! In my opinion, this should be done once you really have women's policies in mind! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch! I read in today's edition of the "Kurier" that you would have wished for women the right to part-time work. - I would like to tell you what I would like: the right to part-time work for women and men, the right to part-time work for both parents and a gradual approximation of working time, namely, that both work less and that the realization of the much quoted and still quoted statement in the population, namely, 'half-half'. In my opinion, this would have been a good measure of women's policy. But it doesn't matter if you say: I wish I had more part-time for the women! Finally, I would like to draw your attention to something, particularly the Social Democratic side: Of course, the employment rate has increased. That's right. But, Mrs Bauer, look at what working time models and what employment conditions you have! You know very well that even in the region from which you come, the number of minor employees is increasing more and more and that women in particular are affected. Part-time employment is mostly a matter for women, and women cannot choose it. It is a fact that in the region from which you come, almost only such employment conditions are offered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In a chapter, everything is presented extremely positive, optimistic, just too euphoric. They speak of adaptability in connection with these measures. That sounds really harmless: Adjustability! This so-called adaptability is that nothing else is offered to women and that they no longer have any other chance! You and the Minister should not boast that the employment rate has increased if you do not at the same time critically mention that it is rising at the expense of women! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The employment rate increases due to the increase in irregular working hours without taking any countermeasures. That's what gives me to think! In my opinion, there is no reason at all to be satisfied with this national employment plan! Because - once again -: The measures are not new. It is shortened and deleted, and the budgetary figure is missing. 1.5 billion are no reason to rejoice over this national employment plan! You only make a course correction with regard to what you have reduced and deleted in the last three years. No more and no less! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2887	Mr Schwarzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2905	Mr President. My very valued women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a very strong role to play in this national employment plan. The opposition is trying to misrepresent everything. Logically, the government parties, for their part, must, of course, remove the positive. - But Austrian economic policy cannot be that bad, Mrs Kammerlander! Among the 15 EU countries, we have the second lowest unemployment rate, only in Luxembourg, the figures are even lower than in Austria. And we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. One should also take note of these facts, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What about the "workplace farm"?]] Or do you want to argue that since 1990, we have been able to create more jobs by 6 per cent, although industry has been enormously rationalized and has also had to be saved in the public sector? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: How many new farms are there?]] The opposition should take note of these facts on and on its part honestly! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Work is an essential element of human dignity and personality development. We are therefore committed to this - and the liberals should also work for it - that the work can be experienced by everyone as meaningful as possible. For the creation of employment, but also for the functioning of our economy, and in particular for the performance of our social state, as many jobs as possible are necessary. Austria can point to a remarkable economic and employment development. Accordingly, the employment situation in Austria is also very good in international comparison. Nevertheless, we have to do everything we can to create as much work as possible for all the people who wish to work. With the National Action Plan, the Federal Government aims to create new additional opportunities for employment, to further reduce the level of unemployment, to contribute to the promotion of equal opportunities between women and men, to flexibly, innovatively and permeably shape the good training and employment system, and to promote a new culture of self-employment. - This is a very ambitious program! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We cannot create jobs by legislation, but we can influence the framework conditions in politics and also strengthen the awareness of the population in this area. In view of the global globalisation, in which labour-intensive activities are outsourced to low-paid countries, it is all the more important that we strengthen, above all, the services sector on which we have not yet reached the European average. However, this also requires that the relevant services be accepted by the Austrians. For example, we have many beautiful landscapes in Austria. More Austrians could spend their holiday in Austria. This is also the way to create jobs in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to talk about agriculture. Agriculture is a valuable raw material supplier for our economy. More than 100 000 employees in Austria work in food and drink production. More than 90 000 people are employed in the processing and processing of wood. A study shows that if we were to benefit from stocks, some 40 000 people in this area could find more work in Austria. In Austria we currently have an increase of about 30 million solid meters of wood, but only a exploitation of 20 million solid meters of wood. That is, it grows by 50 percent more than can be used because the market is not present. Therefore, our pressure to also put more on renewable raw materials in renewable energy. According to the Austrian Central Statistical Office, 13.23 percent of all employees are employed in the processing of agricultural and forestry raw materials. If we count 250 000 people in agriculture, we can see that almost 20 percent are employed in this area. According to the Green Report 1996, the Austrian farmers invested 13 billion schilling in construction facilities and 12 billion schilling in machinery and equipment. This means that many Austrian jobs have been created in this area. I would like to point out something here because Mr Kier criticised a statement by Mr Khol: We often have enormous difficulties in agriculture, especially in horticulture and fruit production, because harvest times in this area often extend to a few days. However, it is almost impossible to find among the Austrian unemployed people who are willing to work for a few days in agriculture. They are paid no worse than in other economic areas. In earlier years, these works were carried out to a large extent, especially in Styria and Burgenland, by frontier workers. The Burgenländer and the Steirer, but also the vegetable and horticultural farms in other federal states would like to hire Austrians for this. However, it is not possible to gain Austrians for this day-to-day work. Our objective is to preserve the land-based agricultural and forestry sector. It is about a functional rural area and the permanent safeguarding of the multifunctional tasks by rural family farms. Thus, quality of life can be created for all Austrians, but also for guests who come to us and find a well-kept cultural landscape up to the glacier regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture, however, is also the basis for jobs in the downstream and downstream areas. I have already stressed it: Each person employed in agriculture secures two jobs in the region. The food industry is the most employment-rich industry in Europe. It must therefore be of concern to all Austrians to ensure the further development of the agricultural policy and the existence and competitiveness of Austrian agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2977	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2996	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs! Mrs Federal Minister for Education! Ladies and gentlemen! The national employment plan will now create 100 000 new jobs by 2002 and reduce the unemployment rate to 3.5 percent. - All this is right and beautiful. However, if I think back on EU accession, I can remember that the creation of 50,000 new jobs has been promised, but in fact it has been reduced by 80 000 jobs. In the insurance sector, in the banking sector, at the OMV, although their share price increases and the fuel price also increases, people are cancelled or sent in early retirement. It is similar with the train. There are 10 000 jobs for the ÖBB, and another 10 000 jobs will be lost in the postal sector by 2001. We have more early pensioners and more unemployed people, and the national employment plan states that 15 000 people in the raw materials industry and 15 000 people in the construction industry, i.e. 30 000 people in total, are also expected to lose their jobs. There will be 23 000 in the textile and clothing industries and 5 000 in the food industry. In return, 28 000 jobs will be created in the service sector, in particular in the social, health and health professions and in the field of environmental professions. Nevertheless, 30 000 jobs leave me, Mrs. Federal Minister. On the one hand, 28 000 new jobs are created, on the other hand 30 000 jobs are lost. This bill is not quite clear! Under the National Employment Plan, 20 000 to 30 000 jobs are to be created through active labour market policies, by re-training previously unemployed. - But I'm curious what a job someone who has been busy in the construction, in the raw materials or food industry, and is almost 50 years old, will get after re-training! He can go to re-training for two or three years, but he will not get a job because the economy does not take up anyone with this age. That's the problem! It does nothing but increase the profit of the Wifi and the BFI, and people do not immediately stand on the street, but have some employment. All that comes out is that this costs taxpayers a lot of money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The national employment plan states that 70 000 to 80 000 of these 100 000 jobs to be created are intended to improve the economy. Economic growth is forecast to be 2.5 percent, with the aim of increasing employment. Dear women ministers! But how should the economy grow if, for example, a wave of founders - Mr Kier has already mentioned this today - is at the same time propagated and prevented? - It means that more farms are to be created. In fact, there were 12 percent fewer businesses in Austria in the first quarter of 1998 than in the previous year. 1 333 companies were deleted from the company's book last year. There are currently 276 400 farms in Austria, which is very, very little. What do you want me to say? - Actually, the Chamber of Commerce and the Federal Government are the obstacles to the wave of founders! For if someone wants to start a business, he must first take up an obstacle run with the authorities and pay considerable amounts of subscription fees for the individual commercial rights. And, of course, that frightens many. In addition, we have a high tax and tax rate, and real income in Austria is falling, and if income is lower, then, of course, purchasing power is also falling. It would therefore be essential to prefer wage tax reform. Because a decrease in purchasing power means less economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen! Growth is not caused by wage reduction and the restriction of workers' rights, but by buying-in consumers. At the time, this has already been recognized by a great entrepreneur, namely Henry Ford, who said: Cars don't buy cars, but my employees have to earn so much that they can also buy my cars. - You too must be very kind!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3042	Mr Nürnberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3060	Mr President. Representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Federal Government is to create new additional opportunities for employment through the National Action Plan for Employment, to reduce the level of current unemployment, to promote equal opportunities between women and men, to flexibly, innovativeally and permeably shape our proven training and employment system in the interests of dynamic structural adjustment, and to promote a new culture in the field of self-employment. What measures is to be taken in the National Action Plan? - Four priorities are set in accordance with the policy guidelines set out by the European Union. First: Improvement of employability, second: Further development of the entrepreneurship, third: Promote the adaptability of employers and workers, fourthly: Equal opportunities. I very much welcome the fact that, after genuinely tough negotiations, the social partners have succeeded in reaching a common understanding, particularly in the fields of youth and apprenticeship employment. One could agree on ensuring the promotion of over-company and inter-company training. Apprenticeships will be created in the future, further development of our entire apprenticeship will take place with the introduction of new occupations, increased use of the training institutions of the social partners and further development of our professional universities. I particularly welcome the fact that training will be promoted. As one of the few, a few years ago I found out from this point of view that the State spends the least on vocational training compared to other training sectors. That is why I welcome the current development. I am also pleased that the social partners have jointly reached an agreement to modernise the work organisation and that it has been included in the National Action Plan. I am glad that the priorities of working time flexibilisation, decoupling working hours and working hours, adapting working hours to production fluctuations and reducing working hours are laid down in the law in conjunction with flexibilization and reduction of permanent overtime. The National Action Plan also states that there are some areas such as the metal industry and industry in which this has already been achieved. Nevertheless, I would like to make an appeal to the address of the economy, because in the last few days there has again been a case in this respect - and we should prevent such cases -: If both sides - especially the workers - are willing to become more flexible, then we should also try to create new jobs in this way! But if - Mr Klubobmann Khol, I'm glad you nodd! - in a large company, whose name I do not call, because I consciously never call names in the public, flexibility is understood in such a way that employees on average due to a bandwidth model 800 hours - you have heard correctly: 800! - collect, then that's the wrong way! I am convinced that in such a case the creation of new jobs would be absolutely necessary and overall better and more reasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe, however, that in the joint debate we can also convince these entrepreneurs of the correctness of this measure. I can reassure Mr Dolinschek and assure him: This national employment plan has many good approaches, and the general economic situation will help you to achieve a far-reaching increase in the estimated number of 100 000 new jobs over the next few years!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3110	Mrs Schaffenrath is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3128	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kammerlander has described the sad situation of women on the labour market very clearly and well here today. I can only underline their demands and their analysis of the situation on and on its own. I would therefore like to focus more on education policy and the statements on apprenticeship training today. Mr Feurstein said today: Finally, education policy has the importance she deserves, and he has thanked the Minister of Education for it in detail. - Unfortunately, he's not here now, but I would like to know, honestly, what he actually thanked for. We have always acknowledged verbally in this House that education policy is an essential instrument, especially when it comes to labour market policy in the future. However, I am unfortunately unable to recognize appropriate approaches despite budget increases. It is clear that growth in the budget does not, for example, bring about an improvement in educational conditions or an improved educational supply, but only serves to finance the biennials. This has already been clearly explained in a study of the IHS in 1994, and unfortunately we are already moving beyond the most negative of all forecasts. The last savings packages have made the educational conditions worse and the courses have been shortened. Mrs. Minister! They were together with me during a discussion in an HTL, and I find it unfortunate that students in one of the largest HTLs in Vienna should be reminded of the computer education they have been removed during the last savings package. Mr Blünegger! I'll give you all the right. This House is unlikely to be long when it comes to setting up subcommittees. We have already experienced this when it came to the school-time law, namely the new holiday scheme in connection with the energy holidays, and of course we have also experienced this in the discussion about the dual training system. In particular, when subcommittees are set up, it always takes so long to deal with opposition applications, and this time there is a wide range of liberal applications. Mr Blünegger also complained about the failure of the Subcommittee. Unfortunately, I have not seen many liberal applications with constructive proposals! [[Abg. Böhacker: Go! We have certainly made proposals!]] Then you have to clarify it. How many are there, what do they have on the content, what can we discuss here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] It is known to us that, when it comes to dual training, the liberals are always trying to fish in all camps. But this issue is too serious and too important! There is a need for constructive proposals that really meet this complex matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: Yes, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] I already know that "Superintendent" in your series is a popular term! But I do not think that you would be harmed by the repetition of individual educational units! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I now come to the apprenticeship package and also to those points which Mrs Minister has raised in her report today. I mean, these are not reform approaches, but small corrective attempts. Mrs. Minister! If you have said today that the social security contributions for apprentices have been cancelled, you have forgotten to add that at the same time the service providers' contributions to employees have been increased and labour costs have increased. And if you are proud to say today that for the first year of education, there is a 20 000 S discount for every entrepreneur, I say: This is a different variant of the funding policy that we had in the past! In the first year of education, 20 000 S of replacement per apprentice will result in a small cost relief, but it will not bring you the apprenticeship boom you are hoping for through this measure. We have already found this in your other promotions: With 700 000 S for an additional apprenticeship, the problem was only moved further into the future, but not actually solved. We know what such support actions have led to. Mr Kammerlander has already explained the financial situation in which the labour market service is located, as is being juggled between countries, that women's projects had to be recruited in favour of other labour market policies. Now you take out the General Insurance Institute, and Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima threatens with a flat-rate penalty in the form of the repayment of 100 million schilling into the budget from the General Insurance Institute if the apprenticeships are not reached again. - I think that is really not the right policy. I can't see any reform approaches. And something else really shocked me: We are only discussing the dual training system under the title "Accommodation of young people". I have not heard today, in the entire debate, the demand for more quality in training in this area. I am sure that this will still fall on our heads! For you know just as well as I do that the largest number of unemployed are those young people who still find no place in the labour market with a degree in teaching. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It was addressed today's teaching. - I have always known from this point of view that I am willing to agree to a basic teaching. However, I am strictly opposed if this teaching becomes a self-contained training system, with which, as it were, qualified helpers are trained. I am in favour of the possibility of intermediate qualifications, but I am opposed to a sorting out of young people, of whom, when they are 15 years old, they would not be suitable for further education, from 15 years old with all their puberty problems and perhaps full of school frustration! We need to integrate these young people, and we can allow them to leave after two years. If, however, special curriculums are designed to sum up young people in their own school classes, then I see little chance of creating real permeability. Young people who have problems in the short term during puberty and because of school frustration have not deserved this in the long term! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should also like to say something about the vocational education and training systems: The example of "system gastronomy" has already been mentioned. - I think in this context, one cannot really speak of dual training or of real vocational training. I am really concerned, Mr Feurstein - I believe you have brought this example - that no one will be concerned about the departures of this teaching. These apprentices of system gastronomy will become more cheap auxiliary workers who will now push out the employees there because... Don't say that! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You have no idea! Come to Bludenz and look at this!]] I have already looked at the system gastronomy at the country's hospitality school in Absam. I probably know more about the content than you do, Mr Feurstein. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In connection with the transition courses for suitable apprentices who, as you have said, are currently unable to find an apprenticeship and can now practice in the Wifi, the BFI and, if possible, in establishments or, if no place is found in establishments, at HTL or in the practical rooms of various schools, I have a question: How do you want to justify the 2 000 s of pocket money that these apprentices receive to commercial students and to professional students who also complete schooling and vocational training? One more thing: What curriculum will there be? What training content will there be? Who will be the teachers who teach to the WIFIs and BFIs? - I know that there are also vocational teachers and teachers of vocational training, but I do not think that every adult educator is able to train young people without further training and without methodological didactic training. If that were so, I should actually ask myself what we still have vocational education academies for. Then such training is apparently not necessary for our young people. Mr Maderthaner! If we do not find teaching places for these suitable young people, then we have to create conditions that the economy - as in the past - is ready to offer such teaching places. I almost can't hear how well our education system works. - It's an excellent system from the basic concept, just: It doesn't work anymore. Mr Maderthaner! It was the Chamber of Commerce that put on the table clear demands for a reform. I ask you again: Are you satisfied with the changes in the vocational training law? Are you satisfied with the changes in the Child and Youth Employment Act? - I ask those who work in the tourism industry: Are you satisfied that apprentices may not even be employed in summertime until 11 a.m.? Are you satisfied with that? - Apparently already; in any case, you have rejected the Liberals' requests in this regard. The second reason the Chamber of Commerce has put forward - I think it was the second most important - is a real cost reduction. We do not reach this by a one-time replacement amount of 20 000 s in the first year of teaching, for which we also need to eliminate the general accident insurance institution financed by employers. For this we need - I repeat - a wage and social decoupling of school and working time. This leads to a real cost relief, and - because I have already mentioned the quality of training here today - this provides us with the necessary flexibility to expand the school's share and to be able to record new content in the fields of communication, computer and foreign languages. If we seriously believe that we want to prepare young people for the labour market of tomorrow in the context of dual training, we will also need new training content to ensure the necessary mobility in the labour market. That's not going to happen in eight weeks, which I'm aware of. That is why we need an extension of vocational schooling. However, this must not be at the expense of the teachers and not at their expense. This flexibility provides us with another advantage. We could extend the school's share within different training models to the extent that it would integrate a professional maturity test if the training period was extended accordingly. So we could aim at higher education goals. Then the economy would no longer have to complain - this is also one of the main reasons for the recruitment in the field of training - that it finds too few qualified candidates. The opportunities currently offered by the dual training system will bring almost all the high-performance young people into the education system. Mr Feurstein! For the quality of a training system, it is not enough - I say this again and again here - that awards are awarded and professional olives are won. I think we must ensure that the overall quality of training is high. If we look at labour market data for this purpose, we see that these are unfortunately very unfortunate. If we do not improve quality if we do not focus on education and education in general, but only on housing by billions of shillings, then we will produce the unemployed young people of the future. If you want to prevent this, I'll tell you: It's five minutes after twelve!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3222	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3241	Mr President. My Dear Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very good that, according to Mrs Schaffenrath, I was able to climb the speaker's seat so to speak. For I can tell you one thing, Mrs Colleague - and you know this too -: As far as dual vocational training is concerned, we are very much in agreement in many areas. We only have different approaches. I can calm you right at the beginning: We are far from satisfied with what has been agreed. But you also need to know that things in politics take some time. You are not as long as I am in politics, but it calms me just as little as you do that some things still last longer. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: And the young people are not at all!]] However, one must see the good approaches and realize that the right course will be followed. I would also like to return to the fact that you have spoken about the many Liberals' requests. Mrs Schaffenrath! All your requests could be summarized in a single sentence, in a request. It does not depend on the variety, but on the content, and there it is very probably different too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, we'll be on 3. It will be discussed by the Commission in June. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Nice to meet you!]] In one point, I can calm you down: When these applications were submitted in December, we had a long discussion to start, and we are going to be on 3rd. continue to discuss June. I would like to point out to you - look at this! - what is included in the National Employment Plan: It states precisely that the teaching of young people with personal barriers to mediation is intended. An alternative is to be created for them, with the possibility of completing a period of two years, but also of taking this time into account on further training steps. It is not only about young people who have puberty difficulties but also about the parents of disabled children who would have liked these children not only to be able to work in sheltered workshops, but also to have the opportunity to do some kind of teaching so that they can put their husbands or their wives in normal working life. It is a wide field that we want to enter with the teaching, a field that should be used for further training. This is planned with the teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is also an apprenticeship problem in Switzerland. There is, for example, a training problem in so far as there is currently no training place for 7 000 young people. Each teaching firm in Switzerland has an average of 7.8 applications. There, the economy contributes approximately 13.6 billion schilling to apprenticeship training. In particular, the lack of qualified trainees is criticized. So in this respect it is the same as in Austria. I can tell you the following, Mrs Schaffenrath: You know for yourself that we have tried to give all young people who might have accepted an auxiliary job ten years ago the possibility of apprenticeship training. This means that there are qualitative differences and differences in qualifications. In part, there is neither the will to enter a teaching post nor a teaching profession there or there. We are now trying to counter it, and we will see what we can still achieve in this direction. But this is certainly a step in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to the goal that Mr Nürnberger has mentioned when he said that we should move forward to the development of the entrepreneurship spirit. We will be very pleased when this takes place, because it is by no means easy to be a businessman. If the Social Democrats are now more strongly adopting this issue, I will be particularly pleased that perhaps more people will become independent. Because that's also the chance for the future. I would like to give you an article from the "Wall Street Journal" of 19. ==References====External links== In the heading it reads: "European Entrepreneurs flex their muscles". In this it is very interesting to note that there is a new group of fastest growing companies that are drawing attention to themselves in Europe. The Americans point out that politicians should look at these companies in order to see why, for example, the 2 000 in the 1990s created the fastest growing companies with 600 000 new jobs. One could learn from them how it is possible to support employment policy. This article states, among other things, that, according to different criteria, a ranking of the fastest growing companies in Europe has been created. The fastest growing is a Spanish company that delivers pizzas. This company had 960 employees in 1991 - for our terms it is already a large company - but in 1996 it was already almost 7 000. This corresponds exactly to the training as a gastronomy specialist. It is evident in this way that there are areas which are not yet sufficiently known and in which there are quite opportunities. This Spanish company is practically only active in the domestic market. But in the rankings, software companies, electronics producers, trading companies and so on - there are a variety of possibilities - that are active not only in the home market, but also in international markets. It turns out what is very important for small businesses: They are supplied with domestic tax legislation. They cannot take advantage of the same tax advantages as multinational companies and are nevertheless successful. I think we can learn from it. I am pleased that the National Employment Plan is pointing in the right direction, in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3300	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Member of the European Parliament whenever you want it to be: You know you can talk from your place.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3325	Mr President. Mrs Gehrer! Mrs. Hostasch! The national employment plan completely goes beyond the desire and the goal of creating disabled jobs. They seem to have forgotten that the situation is in such a way that - with effect from 31 December. March 1998 - 241,000 people were unemployed, of whom 42,000 were disadvantaged people. The number of 42 000 disabled people without work is continuing to rise, because you do not want to see to this day that you have completely failed in politics in terms of how disabled jobs should be created. But you will continue to do that. The measures planned in the NAP for the integration of disabled people provide only the basis for preventing jobs for disadvantaged people on the "first" labour market. This will put disabled people out of the "first" labour market permanently and send them to special facilities such as employment facilities and protected workshops. So that you do not notice at first glance where disabled people travel, you make it easy and try to rename employment facilities and protected workshops into "innovative enterprises", for the purpose of mobilising additional funds from the European Social Fund, which you would otherwise not be able to do. For these funds are intended exclusively for integrative measures in favour of disabled people, but not for special measures. Mrs. Minister! All the measures in the NAP that are now planned are not only unbelievable, but really a mockery for people with disabilities. For you yourself know much better than I do that you never and never have the financial resources you need. The measures you are now setting out are those which you have deleted on the basis of the last two savings packages on the grounds that it was no longer necessary for measures in favour of disabled jobs to be taken without these resources. These measures are now inside your NAP again. The NAP shows the author's efforts to list as large a number of alleged activities as possible - even if they are exceptional - regardless of whether they can be financed at all. Mrs. Minister! If I look at the various measures, I immediately notice that, for example, in the field of education - especially for disabled people - there should be no more than anything at all. Mrs Gehrer has managed to tip all education measures for disabled people to integrate the labour market. Mrs Gehrer! You know - we have talked about it a lot more often - that you do not even allow disabled people who go into inclusive schools to receive more than nine years of education. They do not continue to allow measures to be taken to train people with disabilities. It is simply a question of setting up re-training and qualification measures. However, without proper basic training, there is hardly any need for a qualification or re-training measure, because as a disabled person I never enter the labour market anyway. If I do not get into the "first" labour market, then it will never be established whether anyone is a beneficial disabled person today, and if someone is not a privileged disabled person, then those measures you have planned will not be taken anyway. They made it particularly easy: You want to simply push the unemployment situation of disabled people on the track and put disabled people in sheltered facilities, although you know that for activities in these facilities an income of 250 S to a maximum of 4000 S is being managed monthly. If you know today that you have to work for 250 S to 4000 S 160 hours, you also know that you can never secure an existence with this amount, let alone create social security or pension insurance. Women Ministers! If you were really serious about creating jobs for disabled people with the help of the NAP package, then this package of measures would have to look completely different and have completely different contents. Mrs. Minister! Perhaps you can remember that content is in particular necessary to ensure that the federal, state and local authorities are no longer allowed to buy free of their employment obligations. - Dear women ministers! I'd be pleased if you'd listen to me. The law on the recruitment of disabled persons has also been in place for a long time. These measures, which are important for disabled people, should at least be enshrined in the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons and then adequately secured in the NAP. Claim number 1: Meeting the duty of recruitment for the federal, state and local authorities as well as rejection of the possibility of free purchase! They know very well that public institutions such as the Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities, pension insurance institutions, health insurance institutions, churches, chambers and close-to-state banks and businesses are far from fulfilling their employment obligations. I would like to support this with a statistics that I have prepared on the basis of my answer to the question, and I would just like to say a few words to you. Mrs Gehrer! This is especially your address: They seem to have overlooked - or have already assumed - that you have failed to fulfil 1 165 disability obligations in your department, in the Ministry of Education, 1995 1 200, 1996 1 161 and 1997 1 165. You have made it easy, Mrs Minister, and for this period, you would rather transfer 83 million schilling to the compensation tax fund, rather than hire a single disabled person. The Ministry of Education is the leader in the field of Ministries in the non-adjustment of disabled people. But not only the Ministry of Education does by far not fulfil its duty of recruitment: It is the same in the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. If the individual ministries were to fulfil their duty of employment, then at a rate of 5 000 disabled people, now without employment, would be in an employment relationship. This measure could be implemented immediately, and this should also be done in the NAP. But that seems not to be your goal, but you prefer to write a lot into it, although there is security that it is unfinancing and that nothing will change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! The first point in the NAP's package of measures must be the fulfilment of the obligation to set up disabled persons. No free sale for federal, state or local authorities! Point two - even this should not be missing in the action catalogue -: Unify the key number for public and private service providers! The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities still have the privilege of not having to hire a disabled person per 25 employees: Instead, they have the special status to do so only with 40 employees. This is an imbalance which has to be changed. The key number must be harmonised and reduced to 5 percent. If you say so, this means another 2 000 disabled people who are not now occupied, but who could be occupied immediately. Third claim: Increase the compensatory tax payments to the average operating income! My women's ministers! As long as it is possible to buy 2 010 S per month from a disability setting, no one will think only at least of recruiting disabled people. If you are serious about reducing the unemployment of disabled persons, the NAP is the third important measure to establish the increase in the compensation tax to an average gross income, including additional wage costs, of the holding concerned. Because then the entrepreneur would have the opportunity to choose whether to hire a disabled person or if he did not, to pay an amount equal to the cost of recruitment to the compensation tax fund. Only when such equality is guaranteed will many companies find themselves who employ disabled people. This would, in turn, be about 7 000 disabled jobs to be occupied immediately. Point four: the premiums for contracts to disabled workshops. We can talk about it - and also about whether the premiums can be increased from 15 to 20 per cent at the moment - but only on the condition that the respective holding has fulfilled its duty of recruitment. Because what is the practice today? - For example, an entrepreneur pays 100 000 S of compensation taxes in the year and recovers 200 000 S over the premiums from the compensatory taxes. If that's not lucrative, then what?- Oh, my God! This also belongs to the fastest set and anchored in the NAP. Mrs. Minister! Another area concerns work assistance at work. They have written down this measure, but they have used the concept of completely false activity. For "work assistance" does not mean that the employment office of its job to look for jobs for disabled people can get rid of what is now the case, but "work assistance" means exclusively: Provision of assistants at work, at work. The practice is now that you have workers financed through the European Social Fund who have nothing but the task of taking over the work of the Employment Office, namely looking for jobs for disabled people. There is virtually no assistance at work. - If you laugh there, Mrs. Minister, I will quickly list 20 institutions in which work assistants are only job seekers and cannot provide accompanying measures at the workplace. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now to your new keyword "integrative farms". Mrs. Minister! If you think that a protected workshop or a form of employment therapy is an integrative establishment, then I would recommend you two, valued ministers, to go there for a month and work for 250 S to 4000 S during this period. Then we will continue to discuss! You know very well that the protected workshops have absolutely nothing to do with integration. You know very well that Blumberger’s study states that the permeability of protected workshops is 4 percent. That is to say, who is in the ghetto remains there, and the permeability with regard to someone returning to the "first" labour market is zero. We can talk about integrative plants, and we should also talk about them. But I understand integrative farms that employ people with disabilities beyond their duties, evenly distributed at all levels and with a maximum of 25 percent that cannot be exceeded. But in protected workshops it is completely reversed. There is the overhead area, the administrative area, which is well paid and occupied with non-inhibited persons, and besides, disabled people work at pocket money level. But this has nothing to do with integrative plants. Mr Guggenberger! You accused me today in a press release that I had a massive aversion to protected workshops. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: A disturbed relationship! You have an disturbed relationship with protected workshops!]] - I have no disturbed relationship, but, unlike you, I have a realistic relationship with these institutions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Guggenberger! You've probably never made the offer, you could pack pencils in the 25-piece bundle around 250 S a month in a protected workshop. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: There is no such thing in a protected workshop!]] This is done in protected workshops. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: No! That's not true at all! There is a collective agreement and a corresponding reward!]] They could also stick - as there are various activities there - company signs of insurances on travel bags. This is also done in protected workshops. Or you could, if you would like, cut in the phone cable and cut off the hangers. All of this is activities carried out in protected workshops. If you don't believe that, you've never been there. My "disturbed relationship" to protected workshops results from being in these facilities for hundreds of times and there daily sees people with 270 s per month going home. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: There is no protected workshop, Mrs Colleague! At least a collective contract wage is paid there!]] Mr Guggenberger! They confuse two things fundamentally, namely the protected workshops in the traditional sense, as we have them across Austria, with a few GesmbH workplaces. That's something completely different. Protected workshops are special institutions for disabled people in which people have to work at a zero rate and do not have social security schemes. And that should be dissolved! Mrs. Minister! If you really intend to continue to build up protected workshops and outsource disabled people with this package of measures, you will be taking a huge step back in terms of integration! But that seems to be Your goal! - If this is not the case, Your goal should be, I'll give you my five-point catalogue. And only when you have incorporated this five-point catalogue into your package of measures will you have regained a piece of credibility for disabled people and unemployed disabled people! If you do not address these points, you will throw the disabled people out of the work process and these will hardly have a chance on the "first" labour market! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3426	The next speaker is Mrs Krammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3445	Mr President. My women's ministers! Mrs Haidlmayr! I did not want to say this at first, but it pushes me here and there already a little to answer you, especially with regard to the fact that for seven years as a member of the Government of Burgenland, I was responsible for social affairs and therefore also for the disabled: They are the first disabled person I have just learned that they reject the protected workshop. Sometime in Burgenland, the question arose that the protected workshop Schlaining could be closed. - There was an uprising, all concerned came to me, and they complained from the deepest heart and really very, very massively about it. The country of Burgenland has, of course, done everything to make this protected... [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's just not true!]] I beg you! I've experienced this myself, I'm not telling you about hearing! I was urgently asked to do everything I could to ensure that this protected workshop remains, and of course there is still it. The economy was not very happy with this protected workshop because there was ceramics. On the part of the economy, the argument that this workshop is too big a competition, but the disabled themselves... Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Mrs Deputies! Call me a disabled person who is happy that he is allowed to work for 270 s a month!]] Let me talk to you, please. I'll report to you from my experience: The disabled people who worked in the protected workshop of the Burgenland have vehemently spoken, however, when only in approaches became receptible that this protected workshop should be closed. - That's all I can say. It doesn't make sense if we both fight now. My concern in this speech is to highlight the improvement of job opportunities for young people in the Action Plan. They should receive better qualifications and thus have a better start in professional life. The improvement of qualifications, as we all know, is also a very important strategic measure when it comes to putting the quality of the Austrian economic location to the fore. New technologies and increased competitive pressure require highly trained employees. It is therefore an important requirement for employees to have a solid foundation for training, and this foundation must be given to young people in the form of a good basic training. It is only on the basis of a good basic education and a solid foundation that we can talk about training, training and lifelong learning, which honourable Member Peter mentioned several times in his speech. This lifelong learning is necessary, but it requires a corresponding foundation. One must be able to build on a basic structure. Otherwise, as far as lifelong learning is concerned, I am entirely of your opinion! But there are many young people who, although willing to learn, want to go not only to a school but also to have a vocational training. Unfortunately, in spite of many efforts for many or for some, there is not yet the possibility of doing so because teaching places are missing and the children do not find training places for what they would like to learn and interestingly find in their surroundings. And I really don't see a mistake in that - I have already said it to honourable Members - when you send these younger people to school. I say this on behalf of the teachers at vocational schools that, although these bridging courses are held at the WIFI and the BFI and at "youth at work", these children obviously do not want to get to the vocational schools. Minister! I think it would be useful to allow a preparatory course also at a vocational education school in order to give the children who do not find a teaching centre a certain basic knowledge for a year, such as the foreign language English in basics or the basic terms of accounting. Everyone who does a business today needs to do this. The vocational education schools would, after the teachers at these schools, offer themselves as a bridge. There are the appropriate equipment and classes there, and there are accordingly trained teachers. Today, in almost every profession, there is a need for a certain basic commercial knowledge. This basic structure could easily be communicated to commercial schools, and if the bridging year is over, then the children would of course have the opportunity to continue in vocational school and take up teaching. Then, in all cases, they are better trained, and a teacher will in all cases give preference to such a trained child. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Don't do anything bad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] Don't put down everything that this government does today! You have enough butter on your head for today, you have a whole butterberg on your head today, and it won't melt for a long time. That's why you're taking control of yourself! Stay back! Because your "Chair and Master" is not here today, you can say something too! But watch out for what you say, or you may have been abandoned tomorrow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I would like to ask the Federal Minister to perhaps think a little about whether it is possible to make such studies in the field of vocational education. Although these children also receive training, they also have a sense of training, training and lifelong learning. Mrs Schaffenrath! I am of your opinion on one point. I also fear that if the children receive 2,000 s for this year of bridging, many will no longer be willing to attend the HTL's trade school or professional courses, but will say: If I get 2 000 s, I'd rather choose such a course. - You really have to wait for this development in all openness. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: This is not fair! That's not fair!]] I believe that the development will go in the direction that young people will go where they will receive 2 000 s. You must wait for this to happen, you must not see everything black, perhaps that is the right way anyway. I would ask you, however, to consider installing these training courses to vocational schools as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3530	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please. [[Abg. Madl: He's not yelling, but he's dreaming the same way!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: (on the way to the speaker's desk) No, he's not dreaming!]] By the way, how do you want to know what he is dreaming about, Mrs Deputies?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3583	Dear ladies on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only businesses create jobs, policy only has to set the framework conditions in such a way that businesses are animated to invest and thus to create work. In fact, the starting situation is not so bad: According to economic researchers, economic growth is expected to be 2.5 percent. The National Action Plan seeks to take advantage of this positive trend and to further improve the level of employment in Austria. [[Abg. Madl: How many years have you promised?]] I can't promise! That's business! In the economy one must think positively, invest and thus turn the wheel of the economy on! Let us be glad that this attitude is present in the economy! We are all concerned about the employment of young people. Because it is very hard for a youth who has finished school to find no perspective and feel that it is not necessary to be used. In addition to the environment of a functioning family, a meaningful activity is probably the existential basis for young people. The apprenticeship package I was successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: How much did one cost?]] Mrs Schaffenrath! We were able to slow down the downward trend for the first time. Mr Oellinger is right when he says that this has cost a lot. That's right! It has actually cost a lot of persuasion that we had to spend, because the opposition has seen everything black. And it has cost a lot - I like to admit that - of money. But we have succeeded in setting signs which have signaled to the firms that we need them and are interested in their performance as training firms. We must continue to do this consistently. For us, dual training is at the heart of the Austrian training system. After all, 90 percent of skilled workers, 65 percent of industrial SMEs and 50 percent of all independent entrepreneurs have completed dual training. Ladies and gentlemen! The school leavers in 1998/99 are indeed facing great challenges. We must therefore put in place concrete measures to meet the proposals of the National Action Plan. We must be able to recover those establishments that have taken up apprenticeship training. In fact, we have to ask why they have agreed. [[Abg. Madl: Why did they vote?]] There are good reasons why I like to admit that! [[Abg. Madl: Explain the reasons!]] It is therefore necessary for us to define the teaching so that, as my previous speaker, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, we can also conclude those people who are more serious. We must quickly implement new careers - and in this context I appeal to the individual ministries concerned. We have to let her go quickly. We really need to live up to the arbitration body we have set up in the NAP, which offers an opportunity for the social partners to really work together in this area and take the appropriate steps in charge of youth. However, I would like to stress: We believe that apprenticeships cannot be purchased in the long term. I would like to make that very clear. The way of the People's Party is another. In this context, I would like to say to Mr Verzetznitsch that the Fohndsdorf model is not our model. If 40 apprentices have to spend 26 million schillings and 19 000 apprentices have to be provided with 30 million schillings in Styria, then this cannot be our future model! Our way is different. We believe that we must strengthen dual training. We believe in the achievements of our training companies, and we are sure that the economy is aware of the responsibility - if only you let them work! We stand for dual training because it offers young people the most opportunities for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3672	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3690	Mr President. My very valued Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing today the Employment Action Plan, I can only stress, because of my daily work in the company, the importance of setting priorities to reduce the number of unemployed and, above all, to enable the long-term unemployed to restart. Because if someone with over 40 suddenly gets out of work today, the situation looks sad for him. In particular, those with lower qualifications have little chance in the labour market. However, through the development and establishment of targeted employment promotion programmes, it will be possible to achieve the goal of creating new jobs. The workers already affected by job losses in the textile, clothing and leather processing industry will unfortunately still be affected by unemployment in the near future. As I come from this sector, I would like to stress the importance of helping those concerned with work-based foundations and fund-like offers. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain this by the example of my company. Due to the collapse in the TBL sector in the last half of the year, 130 employees, including many uneducated workers, have been cancelled. The possibility of installing a work foundation was dependent on whether we are making the funding. An amount of 6.9 million schilling was needed. The employees remaining in the holding were willing to pay 1 per cent of their gross earnings for three years in solidarity to those who lost their jobs. The management provided 1.5 million Schilling for three years, 1.9 million Schilling were provided by the social sector of the country and 1.9 million Schilling from the economic sector. The financial conditions were thus guaranteed. In March we started vocational orientation courses, and already on Monday, 18th. May, it will be possible to start training. The result of the vocational orientation is that now six women enter the care profession, five women go on the road to self-employment, and seven women will practice a non-traditional profession, such as painter, electrician or carpenter, to name just a few. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! It is really a pleasure to see how much commitment the people concerned are preparing for a new professional perspective, because they recognize the opportunities open up to them through better vocational qualifications. I would like to mention that these are mainly workers who have been on the bond for up to 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This National Action Plan for Employment will enable us to cope successfully with the necessary adjustments to the changed production structures and market conditions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3731	Mrs Ridi Steibl has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3749	Mr President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. Although employment growth in women has been higher in recent years than in men, the average unemployment rate of women remained essentially unchanged. The percentages of the unemployed still show a great difference between women and men. Women's unemployment remains higher than men. In addition, there is a large number of hidden unemployed people, especially among women. We know that the national employment plan has two very important pillars - they have already been addressed today - namely the development of entrepreneurship and the possibility of equal opportunities. To the column of the Entrepreneur's Spirit: I think that both the new independence and the area of the founders are important. If one sees that self-employed workers in the EU account for 15 percent, but in Austria only 10.4%, then it becomes clear that we still have a lot to do in this area, although it should be noted that the rate of those who can still be in business after five years is much higher in Austria. In the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, women in particular find it extremely difficult to continue a micro-enterprise if, for example, they have to go to Karenz or have other care obligations. That is why it is important and, as I believe, commendable that many things are now being determined in the field of business start-up and need subsequently to be implemented. I would like to take a very specific look at the area of young entrepreneurs who need special support. If the question is asked why women actually need special support, then I can see that women's unemployment is still on the rise and that women have different access to loans and entrepreneurship as a whole. It is therefore necessary to implement all the demands that are now committed in order to create a new rail for job security. The expansion of the promotion of young entrepreneurs with very special attention to women-specific requirements is necessary. It is also necessary to strengthen the support of businesses, the promotion of women and the creation of jobs, as we have already enshrined in the context of women's desire. In addition to the support provided by existing bodies such as the ÖSP and the Economic Chamber, which offer excellent advice, EU projects need to be forced, so to speak, to set up a roof above the head by means of a kind of Women's Founder's Centre. The service sector also plays an important role in creating new jobs, as the service sector is growing. Mrs. Minister! I know you don't like to hear that, but I still want to remind you of the home service and the service check. I believe that the public sector can take a step further and take on services which are not provided by the employment offices and which are offered by the labour market service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Equal opportunities: The creation of equal opportunities is not just a means of defining women's promotion plans. I would also like to remind you of the audit for family-friendly work environment so that these measures can also be taken in other areas. I believe that this national employment plan will also take a very important step in the area of women's promotion and improvement of women's employment. This path must be pursued more intensively!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3801	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. I'll set a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3820	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Many speakers in this debate have dealt with our concerns about the training and employment of young people. I think it should not be forgotten that good vocational training is the basis for making it easier to move on the labour market, less affected by unemployment, and less needing help to get back into work if necessary. Mrs Gehrer has today found that training and youth employment have a high priority for them, but also for the Federal Government as a whole. It also said that the creation of the best framework conditions should not fail in the question of money. - You can only support that! I believe that this really must be an important concern of the Federal Government. Mrs Hostasch has also made this clear. I believe that this must be a concern of all the political groups in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! There is currently a discrepancy between the number of job seekers and the notified open posts. There are still more job seekers than reported job vacancies. It is therefore important that we consider how to deal with this problem, especially in the coming autumn, and which solutions we are offering. In addition, some 40 percent of the teachers who started teaching and attended a vocational school leave after a year, and the pressure on the teaching profession market is still intensifying. It is therefore necessary to link a net so that no one remains. First of all, we must, as has already been stated in this debate, make common efforts to ensure that more teaching places can be offered in the dual system. In addition, I believe that there must be the high-quality independent training facilities and apprenticeships. A previous speaker, Mr Drinkl, said that, for example, this training facility in Fohnsdorf was not necessary, but I see it differently: I believe that this example shows how important these training facilities are and that high-quality apprenticeship training is possible in such facilities. That is why we should do everything we can to ensure that training is continued there. Vocational training courses and vocational schools - as they have always been called - will certainly be necessary as a regional supplement and as a transitional solution even in the future wherever there are not enough apprenticeships available in dual training and will be an important stand-by leg. Mrs. Gehrer, Minister of State! The full-time school - Mr Vergestnitsch has already pointed out - has never been planned by us Social Democrats. I do not know who whispered to you in the left or right ear that the "evil" social democrats want to introduce some full-time school. We really only see the vocational school as an idea, as an opportunity to provide additional measures where it is necessary and only as long as it is necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Why is MEP Krammer opposed?]] It is very appealing for me to add another sentence in this context: As Minister of Education, one could be proud of having the opportunity to contribute to it through the possibilities of one's own department - even if it were a full-time school - so to speak, no one remains. It could be very appealing to think about it too. However, I would like to stress once again that we did not want to do so in this case. Last comment: The question of costs in training has been raised several times. - I believe that those measures, which have so far been adopted by the legislation, have brought cost relief to businesses. Nevertheless, the costs relating to so far have not yet come to a comprehensive burden balance within the economy. As you know, Mr Feurstein, there are signs of this in the metal industry: There is a burden compensation on a voluntary basis of the economy, which works blindingly and could be an example for all of Austria. In addition, I have heard that the textile industry - you have quoted it - has now established a training fund because it has recognized that it itself has to put in place training measures. Let us, therefore, think together about how, on the basis of these examples, we may also achieve a cost and burden compensation, which would ultimately lead to more justice in training!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3854	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3873	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, the National Employment Plan: Many of my previous speakers have already dealt with youth employment. I would also like to do this and explain in some essential positions what it is all about. Firstly, I believe it is important for the national employment plan to deal with youth employment and youth training in a very detailed manner. I think that is one of the main concerns of the Austrian population. It is the problem and the concern of the Austrians to see the youth employed or in training. Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, the economy is waiting for these impulses. It wants to implement the Action Plan and, in future, to see concrete steps and measures that we still have to define and put into practice in this House. Thirdly, last year there was a real national effort at all levels of our country, that we could employ tens of thousands - except for some God, thanks to few - of young people and teach them a place or profession. [[Abg. Meisinger: "Some few" thousand!]] If you, Mrs Madl and Mr Cot, have a good proposal and you can go here from Mr Haider, then bring your proposal in. [[Abg. Madl: These "some few" will thank you!]] With the calls that are inseparable, but all the more loud, we have done nothing in this house, gracious woman! Please, Mrs Madl, constructive proposals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: No phrases!]] If anything should come from you, then may it be reasonable! [[Abg. Madl: No statements, Mr. Cot! There are no statements from you!]] Fourthly, last year's funding of apprenticeships had a degree that we certainly cannot make available this year. It cannot be that these costs should not be involved. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget - fifthly - that we have left higher schools, i.e. from AHS, BHS or universities on the labour market. One of the main positions in the Action Plan is that it has been fixed to provide the economy with an exemption of 20 000 s, a recognition of the time when young people go to vocational school. It has also been defined as a new job opportunity and has also established that new occupations will be made available economically in future, not in as long periods as in the past, but much faster and more efficient. I thank Mrs Gehrer for this. It was not so obvious, Mr Riepl, that the dual vocational training system should be maintained and thus defined. Mrs Gehrer has played a major role in defining and creating this Austrian speciality in training. Of course, it may be that we will not accommodate all apprentices or professionals. We must also expect that a certain number will not teach but simply enter the work process. We must also create a possibility for these young people. The teaching is certainly an essential matter for somewhat weaker young people, and it has also been created in this area of professionalism. Thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer to the concrete steps. I will always repeat them again and ask the Social Democratic Party not to be preventative and delaying on the road, but to finally allow the gastronomy to work until 23 o'clock, and finally to commit itself to introducing start jobs - perhaps according to the Austrian model - because it is necessary to provide the young people who leave higher schools with practice in the establishments. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Now, you're talking stupid! Four times we've already brought it in, and you've been against it!]] Another point is that vocational schools have to take account of the seasons of the establishments and that the proportions in the establishments have to be adjusted and reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! As the last point... [[Abg. Madl: He asks the Social Democrats – and is with them in the government!]] Mrs. Madl! Your excitement pleases me. They're loud as always. It's fascinating in some way, if you don't say anything but the louder your calls. [[Abg. Madl: "Allow me, dear Social Democrats!"]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: In this House, we should talk about new handling and pension schemes and allow them in the foreseeable future, as this promotes the mobility of workers and relieves businesses. The Action Plan is a good basis - including for young people and apprentices - for creating training and employment. It is also a matter of continuing to take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3993	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4033	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the European unification after the Second World War, it was exclusively about the fact that war must never be waged again in Europe. Then the Economic Union followed, followed by monetary union, and now, ladies and gentlemen, even though I have heard it today, I would like to say it a second time now, because it has to be said and because it was really so - leading social democrats who have made the issue of "work" even within the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Yes! And at all, only the Social Democrats have invented the work!]] As a result, the task for all Member States is to develop a plan to reduce unemployment. It is about accepting the 20 million unemployed people within the European Union, including those in Austria. The National Action Plan is a common desire for workers and employers. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: From will to skill is a big step!]] The conditions or requirements that the National Action Plan gives us can be very positive if I see that it sets out the educational course. But education too requires common desire. It must not be handled as it is currently happening - at least in practice I do this experience -: The workers want to take the educational course and the service providers are not yet ready to do so. There is therefore a need for an educational work to which we are all called to contribute accordingly. Three days ago, on Friday last week, a young person, a 30-year-old mechatronic, came to me and said that he wanted to take education, but the employer did not allow him to do so. I also consider the teaching to be positive. We all know - there is nothing we need to imagine at all - that there are young people who will be mature in the development just later. If these people have the opportunity to grow into the profession for a certain period of time and then to count this time in which they have already worked in the profession or in the appropriate field on a regular teaching, I see a positive step in it in the right direction, even on the way to the skilled worker. A model that is practically already tried and very positive, which is mentioned in the Action Plan, is work-based foundations and fund-like measures. Mr Bauer has already reported on this. I can also tell you from the practice that 80 percent of all the people who have gone through the foundations in the Braunau district were able to find new employment and occupations again. There were not only young people in our district, but mostly between 30 and 35 years of age, i.e. those most affected by changes in the economy. That's why it's very positive and very good. As Mrs Kammerlander said that she found very many or only old measures in the Action Plan, I must say: If the measures are good, why not? If the measures were effective, why not? - That is precisely why I welcome the National Action Plan. It seems necessary not only to invest in production but also to ensure that investment is made in people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4086	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4105	Mr President. My dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The measures on youth and apprenticeship employment in the National Employment Action Plan are undoubtedly not only suitable to increase apprenticeship employment, but also to continue to promote and increase the quality of dual training in Austria, thereby achieving a long-term effect. I think that, in particular, the introduction of new teaching professions with appropriate implementing measures is a very positive matter, even though some critical voices have come here; however, the "Ö-3" action has been praised by the same side. I've listened very closely to that a few times. It is precisely the new teaching professions, which are partly asked where there are new teaching places. It has thus been shown that this really takes effect and has positive effects. We also consider the introduction of an apprenticeship allowance to be a good signal, not only in terms of apprenticeship employment, but in principle, because this is a first step towards the tax relief of the labour factor. It is therefore not only the acquisition of machines, but also the recruitment of young people taxed. This is an incentive system that can become effective and, in my opinion, will actually become effective. However, we should not overlook a second aspect - with all due regard to youth employment measures - namely older workers and their difficulties in the labour market. I would like to put to the heart Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch's request of the ÖAAB, so to speak, which was discussed yesterday at the general assembly of the Vienna Chamber of Workers. It concerns the introduction of a part-time old age, an early retirement, and will continue to be treated by the Board of Directors of the Vienna Chamber of Workers. I also see a positive approach to dealing with the employment problems of older workers. Let me say one last thing about this time of the day: I very much welcome the fact that the National Action Plan places particular emphasis on this and that it has not been overlooked the employment effect of construction, especially housing. It has been shown that, among all construction measures, the employment effect in housing is highest. In civil engineering it is higher in road construction than in other measures of civil engineering. In the case of housing, on the other hand, the more the proportion of urban regeneration and renovation measures is the greater the effect. I think that this recognition of the National Action Plan should be taken very quickly into account in certain measures. From my point of view, it is clear that housing support must also take account of the following: On the one hand, it must not be limited to a large extent, but on the other hand, it should perhaps flow towards the renovation and urban renewal. I am sorry that the Minister for Finance is not here yet, and I would like to say that, in the course of the measures to reorganise the tax treatment of the rental interest reserve, the use of old reserves will end at the end of 1998, so that in 1999 a gap could occur in the construction process, which is why the Minister of Finance is called upon to give timely consideration. I also think that tax promotion measures are absolutely necessary as an incentive for the use of private capital for urban renewal and renovation in order to take advantage of the opportunities that I believe have been very correctly identified in the National Action Plan. Now it is up to us to implement this National Action Plan together!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4151	The next speaker is Mrs Brigitte Tegischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4169	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the contribution made by Mr Haidlmayr. It has claimed that very low wages are paid in the protected workshops. I would like to correct this and refer, for example, to the protected workshop in Vump in Tyrol. There the disabled are paid according to collective agreement. You could talk about the care, it could be more intense. In contrast, the employment measures and initiatives are in the aid. There, in fact, only one pocket money is paid. However, as a social worker in a social economy, I must say that there is always the possibility of integrating people with disabilities who do not feel burdened by life support into other measures, for example in socio-economic enterprises. It is important to mention this here because I believe that further good measures for disabled people are included in the national employment plan. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now I would like to come to my topic, youth employment. I would like to stress once again that youth unemployment in Austria - in international comparison - is the lowest, because it cannot be stressed often enough. Despite this gratifying fact, a significant part of the National Action Plan on Youth Employment and Training is dedicated. In my opinion, this proves the efforts of the Federal Government and the social partners, in particular the improvement of employability and the improvement of adaptability through many of the measures already mentioned today, as these are the most important conditions for offering young people a future perspective. It is not only about acquisition and wages, it is not only about the right to existential protection, but also about self-realization, it is about independence, and it is about feeling that we should also do something for society. I would like to stress again today - after I mentioned it in a debate contribution - that the burden of having no training and no work, especially in young people's difficult phase between childhood and adulthood, leads to massive fears, frustration and resignation. This will set in motion a negative spiral which will damage not only those concerned but also their whole environment. Again and again, this spiral leads to the escape of another world - to a world of violence, to a world of intolerance or to a world of addiction and drugs. However, the most beautiful and innovative measures do not benefit if the money is not available for this. This is also highlighted in the NAP, and this indicates that we are facing a fundamental reform of the system, a structural reform, which, above all, is planned to reform the tax system by the year 2000. I hope that this will be enforceable. I call this only two areas, resource taxation and eco-tax, as well as the relief of the labour factor. I could also imagine continuing the debate on a value-added levy. There should also be an international balance with regard to the taxation of assets and, above all, with regard to the taxation of the anonymous share capital. Many actions and measures have already been mentioned. The Youth Training Security Act is particularly important to me. However, to this temporary reception network for 4,000 young people, I would like to mention that reception networks would not have been necessary to this extent if the economy were to become more involved in apprenticeships and in the creation of apprenticeships. After all, the economy benefits from well-trained people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important for me to coordinate many politically responsible entrepreneurship institutions with a view to implementing measures against youth unemployment, with the aim of making young people strong, strong against aggression, strong against intolerance and strong against addiction. This means that the goal can be achieved: The youth has a chance that unemployment will not be a chance! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4225	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4243	Dear women Federal ministers! High house! At the end of a very detailed debate on the National Action Plan for Employment, I would like to make two or three points on training, education and training: What can school do in total?" There has been a great deal of talk today about what vocational school and secondary and higher schools can do in the dual education system, but I still think there is a great deal of ignorance about what the other schools are already doing. Again and again in the media it is to be read that our young people are prepared much too little for entry into work. It's clear: The better a person is trained, the sooner he will find a corresponding teaching and work place. However, I would like to remind you that it is not long ago that we have decided here in the House to prepare the job for all sub-stages. Above all, I would like to remind you that there is a polytechnic school and that it is extremely important in the field of vocational preparation. If it was almost unthinkable 20 years ago that there were working days and weeks there, this is the normal case today. As we have heard and discussed today that there should be transitional courses, vocational schools and similar facilities, I would like to point out here that Mrs Minister that the polytechnic schools are also in a position to ensure that these measures are properly implemented. Only it seems to me important that one thing is taken into account above all: Although it has been made clear today that the transitional classes are so-called emergency actions, with the help of which our young people are to be slowly integrated into their working lives, it is particularly important to define and produce the practical context. In other words, Mr Oellinger should be right in saying that young people, whose desire it would be to go to work, want to spend very little of the time for their future training at a school table. There must therefore be the necessary cooperation with all possible institutions, starting from the teaching workshops et cetera; all of this has already been discussed. In conclusion, as we have devoted a great deal of discussion to this area today, it seems to me to be necessary, in my view, to note that, in particular, secondary education needs some reform. I could befriend to introduce a modular system. A well-designed modular system would also solve the problem of the already skepticism of today, because it would then be possible for an apprentice or student to rise at any time if he believed he was sufficiently qualified, or if he no longer wanted to qualify or can, but this would be very successful at a later time. Overall, we need flexible initial training with a lot of practicality. We need to help young people realize problem-solving capacity and method competence. Our Austrian schools are quite able to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4283	There is no further statement on this point. This debate is closed. No applications have been submitted. That is why we do not have to vote now. 2. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (1077 of Supplements): Federal Act amending the Authority’s Transfer Act, the 1993 AIDS Act, the Federal Act on Natural Recovery and Spas, the Recipes Act and the Medicines Act (1147 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4314	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Pumberger spoke. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4338	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's bill is about merging three institutes. It is the Federal Institute for Chemical and Pharmaceutical Investigations, the Federal State Institute for Experimental Pharmacological and Balneological Investigations and the Federal Center for the Examining of the Serum/Federal Vaccine. These three institutes are to be merged into a Federal Institute of Medicines. However, the Court of Auditors does not consider that a merger alone, which we have already made clear in the Committee, is enough. The Court of Auditors demands much more, it also advocates a local merger so that these institutions can be managed more rationally, economically and economically. But I think this is a very different issue. An essential reason for this merger is the well-founded activity carried out in these institutes. Institutions shall have the main task of ensuring the quality of medicinal products and ensuring the safety of medicinal products. These experts are - as they are public servants - independent of pharmaceutical companies, and they have so far done very good work. However, over the last few months and years, this review has been systematically reduced in the form of staff savings, so far as the pharmaceutical examinations take a very long time and have long waiting lists. In addition, as I was told from a letter, there were a number of intrigues there, especially within the pharmacological institute. The head of this institute was accused of sexual wrongdoing - which has never been proved - only of being released. Finally, he was dismissed, but at the same time he was offered a job in the Federal Ministry of Health. He rejected this because he had also made a confession of guilt with the assumption. - That's how you dealt with the staff there. There was great dissatisfaction there, as one wanted to systematically starved the expertise in this institute, because the aim was to outsource the expertise for medicinal products, namely private external auditors. Imagine: The first thing you want to do is to congratulate the pharmacological institutes of Austria! These specialists in pharmacology have already made many studies for various pharmaceutical companies and are standing because the latter are their bread bearers, also in a certain dependency ratio. And these private experts should now decide on the quality of a medicine in Austria and on its authorisation or non-approval! Mrs. Federal Minister! You can't leave this task to people who are commissioned by pharmaceutical companies in the future! It is even felt that in the pharmaceutical institutes pharmaceutical companies are able to choose the experts they like most, and that they are paid by the pharmaceutical companies as well. Section head Dr. Liebeswar confirmed this in committee: The opinion must be paid by the pharmaceutical companies who wish to have a medicinal product approved. And the expert gets the fee for this report. - That's what it was, Mrs. Federal Minister! You can't deny that because that's a fact! I believe that the safety of Austrian medicinal products must in the future be more valuable than that we should be commissioned by pharmaceutical companies to advise experts, that pharmaceutical companies should then pay these experts and decide whether a medicinal product may be placed on the market in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's really not how it's done! The aim of this law is to increase productivity while at the same time saving staff. That's what the law says. However, when we asked you in committee whether this was the objective, you denied it. You said: No, there won't be any personnel savings. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you do so again, I can read the report on this subject from Parliament's correspondence. Here is literally: "Minister Hostasch noted that no staff would be reduced by the merger." This means the same for me, and if I have interpreted it correctly - and I can also prove it in writing - then I have to assume that you have clearly said the untruth to the Committee on Health. [[Abg. Grabner: Stop it! It's enough!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Were you there? Do you have the protocol of 2. April Read? Have you read the "parliamentary correspondence", have you read the government paper as it is now present? - Certainly not, otherwise you wouldn't make an unqualified call! Ladies and gentlemen! How important it is, for example, to maintain the function of the serum audit institution, we have seen in recent months: In press releases we have suddenly heard that a company in the Mühlviertel is dealing with falsely declared blood. 1 500 liters of blood were imported from Africa, and this company with its headquarters in the Mühlviertel and other company headquarters in Lithuania and Switzerland has deposited more than 1,000 liters of blood in the duty-free warehouse in Vienna and is labeled incorrectly. With most likely infectious blood from Africa, blood contaminated with HIV and hepatitis viruses, is relabelled and cannot be tested by our institutes at all! - You can see how important it is to control it! We have been debating scandalous incidents in connection with a Member of this House for nine hours today. [[Call the SPÖ: From your party!]] If you've been so excited about it, I'll tell you now who the managing director and owner of this pharmaceutical company is: the old mayor of the city of Salzburg, Reschen. The company Albovina in Gallneukirchen, which carried out and had to be closed, and the Reschen Consult with its seat in Salzburg were united, a company was founded in Lithuania, namely the Europharm, and managing director is the former mayor of the SPÖ from Salzburg, Josef Reschen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] He bought this African removed, uncontrolled, contaminated blood by 10 million schilling, refined, mislabelled in Austria and transported to Lithuania. You must review this, ladies and gentlemen, before you join a whole group in this House in political contexts in a causa, but then refuse to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because you are afraid there are many Josef Reschen in your party, both at SPÖ and at the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4405	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4424	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'd like to say: Pumberger rides again! As quickly as the Mafia, he has promised the struggle, he accuses employees of federal institutions who allegedly did not do the right thing at the time of the drug registration, and he is increasingly insulting ex-Politics of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to point out in detail the accusation you have made to employees of a federal institution: Experts are not selected by pharmaceutical companies, but directly by the federal government. Secondly, The fees are charged. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr Pumberger! Identification You don't have our legal order? In the veterinary field too, costs incurred by the Federal Government can then be charged to the individual applicants. And that is exactly what is happening in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no direct payment of the individual assessors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we will and will take a decision on the establishment of the Federal Institute for Medicinal Products. The Socialist Group strongly welcomes this foundation, because it has become necessary for a number of reasons. The merger of the three federal research institutes brings synergies, especially in the administrative field. However, I would also like to make it clear that: This federal law does not constitute a prejudice for a later breakdown. The legal order to be complied with is always decisive. From the workers' point of view, it is crucial that workers in the three institutions retain their legal status and do not have to expect any disadvantages as always. Why did this combination come about? - There was a criticism from the Court of Auditors - on this point, Mr Pumberger, It is quite right - and this merger is in line with the criticism of the Court of Auditors, which has repeatedly pointed out that there is no legal basis for the activities of the three investigative bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main tasks of this new Federal Institute are, of course, in the field of official expertise in the marketing of medicinal products, batch release, follow-up controls and the like. This is particularly the case in the cases of national authorisation, decentralised admission and central authorisation for all of Europe, in which Austrian officials and employees of the Federal Ministry are involved. Why is such an institution necessary at all? - I tell you as a person concerned, as one who, in the course of his professional activity, is repeatedly confronted with questions as to whether offers of medicinal products or alleged medicines are correct on the Internet or via postal firms or not. We can tell almost daily the media that postal companies are offering medicines that are not approved and have not been subject to any such review. People in our country are buying these drugs because they think that these pains will relieve them and help them. - I think we should insist and inform the public that medicines should be purchased in public pharmacies or in house pharmacies and not about such obscene addresses. The future Federal Institute will ensure that, at least in Austria, only those medicinal products which have been subjected to the relevant investigations and for which a safety certificate is available will be supplied.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4485	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4503	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was quite surprised that this government template, which is quite inexpressible from the title, can still heat up the moods so much at so later hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Mr Pumberger spoke well because he really heated your minds! So today we are discussing a government template to amend the Authority’s Transfer Act, the 1993 AIDS Act, the Federal Law on Natural Recovery and Spas, the prescription law and the Medicines Act. Why, for heaven's sake - so I ask you - so many changes in law? Because it is about the merger of three research institutes, with the aim of achieving greater economic efficiency, as Mrs Minister said in her Government's proposal, greater economy and greater effectiveness. All in all, this is a very welcome approach. But: Stop! For the time being, it is only about organisational aggregation. Local merger is a long-term project. However, the synergies - as it stands directly in the government template - only result in a local combination. Stop again! It is only within one year of the entry into force of this Act that concepts for exclusion are presented. And stop again! The Board of Directors criticises in its opinion that the training of doctors in these research institutes is insufficient. As far as this is concerned, a statement has already been requested by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in 1993, but there has so far been no answer to it. Stop again! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is concerned about the expected financial savings, which will certainly result in further delays in the admission procedures, although they have been for a very long time now. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: And stop again!]] And finally stop for the last time: That's what Mr Mag. Mag. Mr Maier said about the Court of Auditors that it was not true. The Court's claims were not met. The Court of Auditors wanted a legal basis to be established, in particular by regulating the stock, task, organisation and performance, as is the case in the food and veterinary sectors. This legal basis, Mr Mag. Maier, however, is not created with this government template. Mrs. Minister! They have referred to this law as the first step in the Committee. We have too many laws in this country, we have too many half-hearted laws. Please make laws that are worth something that are firmly fixed and firmly established, then you will also receive our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4544	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4562	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of a single Federal Institute for Medicines is, as I believe, very welcome. I do not understand, therefore, that Mr Pumberger is missing out on blood and blood derivatives in this context. For the ministry has responded in an exemplary way and acted quickly. I would like to thank you very much for that. All in all, I would just like to say the best about the work of this department. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What do we expect from this law? - Mrs. Minister! I would like to make a few requests, expectations and wishes. First of all, we need more efficiency, only in terms of the mandatory acceleration of the authorisation procedures. For there are more and more applicants complaining about a setback, and this is attributed to the savings measures also in the Federal Government. I would therefore like to point out that there is a need to increase the staffing level. Secondly, we need an extension of the examination of medicinal products, particularly with a view to monitoring the quality of generics and parallel imports. Thirdly, we need to ensure quality, effectiveness and safety and, as can be read in the explanatory notes, to increase the monitoring of other health-related product groups. Dr. Pumberger has already pointed out that a flood of products is available on the market which is offered to the population, although these are not approved by the authorities. Furthermore, the professional qualifications of the official experts should also be used for the checks of the manufacturers in accordance with the operating rules provided for in the AMG. It is also necessary to advance the transfer of authorisations under the special regulations provided for in the AMG. Finally, from 1999 onwards, the approval review will be carried out in accordance with § 19a AMG. Finally, I would like to point out that in the international field, scientific qualifications must take precedence so that we really have international reputation and a right of participation, especially in the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4609	Mrs Klara Motter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4627	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals will give our approval to this government template. We welcome the merger of the rules on medicinal products into a Federal Institute for Medicinal Products. Mr Maier has already expressed in detail why this step is being taken. I can therefore save myself from repeating this because I do not want to bore you. It is undoubtedly a progress that has been made from three research institutes to one, and I believe and hope - as did my previous speaker Dr. Leiner - that this act of harmonization can also significantly increase speed in the admission procedure. I accept the explanatory remarks that this institution is to be excluded after a one-year period of testing. Mrs. Minister! As I have already said in the Committee, I would like to point out once again that the Federal Government's dispensation practice should be considered as a matter of principle, because the previous exclusions meant that, although the former state establishments or institutions were deprived of the control of Parliament, the influence of the parties did not disappear. On the contrary: As a result of the influence of the government parties, many things become even more opaque. In my opinion, therefore, one should seriously consider whether such exclusions are really useful. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I believe that in a sensitive area, such as the pharmaceutical inspection and authorisation, it is not possible to have a breakdown according to the old-fashioned pattern. I can only remind you of the events surrounding the Arge Orthopedics or the report on the drug sector in Austria from 1996. The latter clearly showed that for decades there have been blatant inconsistencies in the area of pricing. However, as far as the authorisation of medicinal products is concerned, the greatest possible objectivity is required. There are also doubts here. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I repeat my urgent appeal, which I have already made to the Committee. You have addressed it because it is really a matter of concern to me: Jump You will focus on planned breakdowns over the shadow of the proportion and on other objective, economic and health criteria! I am convinced that independent, professional management will be necessary if we want more objectivity in the field of drug registration and verification in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4670	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4689	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me just a few comments on this draft law. I would ask you to agree to this proposal, because then my department is able to make one, as I believe, very useful further development in the field of pharmaceutical testing, namely the merger of three sites at two locations and the merger into a Federal Institute of Medicines. I believe that this step can ultimately create more quality and efficiency, of course, while respecting the employees' rights of each institution. There will also be synergies, specifically in the area of rents, because rent costs also fall due to the absence of a location. But also in the field of administration and the internal organization, synergies are to be expected. We need this legal empowerment to take further steps. That is why I would ask you to give your approval to this draft law. Mr Pumberger! Please allow me to make a supplementary comment on the issue of expert activity, although Mr Maier has already referred to it: I would like to expressly note that the Medicines Act provides that external experts can be drawn up. Those who recognize themselves in the field of pharmaceuticals - and I believe, Mr Pumberger, that you also belong to it - know that there are extremely many topics in the pharmaceutical sector, so that not all areas can be covered with their own experts sufficiently. It is therefore not possible to allow all areas to be handled by in-house experts in quality as they would meet your requirements. Therefore, the use of external experts is not only covered by the law, but is also very useful, and it is specified that there is no direct contact between the companies giving the orders and these experts. I think it is right that companies which give a Federal Institute contract for the examination of a medicinal product also take over the cost of it. However, the cost calculation is carried out through the department and not in direct contact, so that there can be no influence and that total objectivity and quality are ensured. Let me also comment on the situation of Albovina: I do not think it is very fair when a name is put in the room here, which is really not to be mentioned in connection with these events, and the person concerned has no way of resisting the production of such a link. - I would like to express my express thanks to my colleagues in the department, in particular a colleague whose highly qualified work, the care and experience of which must be due to the efforts of this procedure and the documentation provided to the public prosecutor to carry out such investigations. Cooperation with the Interior has also enabled us to prevent damage from the Austrian population. I believe that this is worth mentioning, and I hope that, because of the strict legal provisions we have in Austria, it will succeed not only in maintaining the high standard of supply of blood but also in developing it further. - Thank you. .. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4729	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies Ing. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4747	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out for a number of times why this proposal has come about, what it is doing and what improvements it has made. The Federal Minister has just explained it again. I must therefore refrain from repeating, and I would just like to say that by concentrating and pooling the medical knowledge and potential, we are not only reaping economic benefits, but, more importantly, to add another building block to improve our health system in terms of the health of our population. - That's why we'll be happy to give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4772	The next and provisional last speaker is Mrs Konrad. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4790	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll do it briefly. I join all those who welcome the Government's proposal on the amendment of the Medicines Act. I therefore welcome this government proposal because it will improve the possibility of modern and forward-looking scientific work on new medicinal products and, as a result, more transparency in procedures and decisions. If financial resources can be saved through the merger of the three current research institutes into a Federal Institute of Medicines, then this will certainly be positive, especially if - and this is our intention - the combination of funds will benefit to a sufficient or greater degree of health care and health care and if quality assurance and quality improvement are encouraged and supported. Rationalisations for their own sakes did not break anything and would not be targeting in the health field. For us, this organisational measure is also aimed at providing optimal health care for the population. In our view, economic and administrative measures in the health field are always to be measured in terms of their impact on the health welfare of the population. It must be guaranteed - and Mrs Federal Minister has made it clear once again that this is the case with this law - that there are enough qualified experts who can carry out their work independently of economic interests, regardless of pharmaceutical companies who sponsor their activities. This independence is essential for quality assurance in the interests of consumers. The conditions for meeting these requirements are created by the present legislative amendment. It is a first step so that further steps can then be taken. That is why we agree to this new regulation without If and But.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4830	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the places, because we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1077 of the supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill give a sign of approval. - This is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in second reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. - I note that the proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. That's what we've got on the 2nd. Agenda item. 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1152): Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam (1168 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4880	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. Is there a need to report? - Yes, I do. Mr. Dr. Niederwieser initiates the debate by reporting it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4898	Mr President. High house! I have to make a print error correction. On page 4 of this Committee's report 1168 of the Supplements there is a problem of printing. The Committee's proposal is as follows: "The National Council wants to give constitutional approval to the attached bill." [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr President. The discussion can begin.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4922	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Please, Mr. Dr. Khol, to deal with business matters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4951	In the President-in-Office, we talked about Mr Magnette first. Johann Ewald Stadler has spoken. He's not here. If it's his place. He has to put his hands on the back. He's not reported at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4993	Deputies! I've got the speaker list on the screen starting with Dr. Brauneder. I can't judge that. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: As in the Kasperl class!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Meischberger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5047	Mr Brauneder had been reported at the same time. This is just a change, not a follow-up.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5068	Mr. Dr. Kostelka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5086	Mr President. The remark from the left - speaking extremely right - corner lets it guess already: There is no definition of what they want, according to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, § 60 para. 1 - a specific sequence is specified at the same time. And it stays with him, too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5108	Deputies! I should like to say the following: I just took over the presidency. I have here on the screen as the first speaker, Mr Dr. Brauneder, and I have just been informed that Mr Magistrate Magistrate. Stadler's word record within the meaning of § 60 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to Dr Brauneder. I would ask you to understand that I have to start from this point of view. I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Brauneder. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Special Presidium!]] [[Call to the liberals:Oberschaffner!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 23.04 o'clock!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 5 minutes ago the outline was!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Dr. Khol, Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5191	Mr President. I was present myself when the re-submission was made by a club member. Mr Stadler is not in the house! How can Mr Stadler exchange with colleagues Brauneder if he is not there at all?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5212	Mr. Dr. Khol! I would like to say once again that is the situation that I have found and which has also been informed to me. We can talk about it tomorrow morning in the Presidential. But I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Brauneder.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5253	High house! I should like to remind you of the item on the agenda to which I am to speak, but I would like to point out that I have been called to speak now instead of Mr Stadler. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. High house! The negotiation is the Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam. I would like to make a double criticism: The one criticism is against the legitimacy of this government template, the second concerns the constitutional situation as a whole. As we see from this government template, as you have heard of the more often, there is a "legislation of empowerment" here. Firstly, I firmly reject this expression for various reasons. I am going to address this, but first of all I would like to ask the primary question: What about a Federal Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam? What would be the constitutional situation? How would the situation be if it did not exist in this federal constitutional law? If this Constitutional Act were not to exist, this Treaty would have to be ratified here in the House, according to the nature. 50 and 44 of the Federal Constitutional Act and possibly also with regard to Art. Paragraph 9 2. In particular for carrying would be of a kind. 50 of the para. 3, according to which provisions corresponding to this State Treaty must be designated as constitutional. This is clearly the problem here: We want to avoid and avoid the explicit term "constitutional" for individual parts, because - I quite agree - it represents a legal problem to find such provisions in such a treaty. That is to say, the German Constitutional Act in question constitutes a lex specialis on the provisions just mentioned, which is a lex specialis with a very narrow scope, both in terms of subject matter - it only applies to this Treaty of Amsterdam - and in terms of time, because the ratification of this Federal Constitutional Act will bring this Constitutional Act back into force. As you know, this legislation has been elected for the second time. For the first time, it was used to sign the EU Accession Treaty. We have a law that can in some way be labeled as a law of action. The fact that this is happening in the area of constitutional law is particularly unpleasant. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My second criticism concerns, in connection with the first standing, the overall constitutional situation. The fact that we are taking a second step towards such constitutional legislation must have a particular reason. The reason is that in the long term, in our federal constitution, we have clearly not taken any precautions, including such primary law, which is coming from the EU, in our constitutional law or in the simple legal system in Austria. In this situation, a view of a comparative legal nature is helpful. What does this look like, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany? - I refer to this comparison, in particular, because part of our EU Constitutional provisions have been literally followed by the provisions there. The Treaty of Amsterdam must be ratified in the Federal Republic of Germany as any international treaty. That is where the Bundestag carries out with a so-called ratification law. I do not want to go into detail here, but refer to what is the major problem in the Federal Republic of Germany: If the State Treaty is constitutional - or if it is supposed to be - it must be incorporated into the text of the Bonn Basic Law. If this is not done, it may be risked that the Treaty, which has been ratified in this case: the so-called ratification or contract law, is unconstitutional and repealed by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in the Federal Republic of Germany, it was recognized very well and very soon that such EU law was special cases, and there very soon legal provisions were taken in Article 23 of the Bonn Basic Law. I would like to read to you the essential provisions. It says: "In order to achieve a united Europe, the Federal Republic of Germany is involved in the development of the European Union, which is committed to democratic, rule of law, social and federal principles and the principle of subsidiarity, and one of these basic laws - that is, to the Bonn Basic Law - "guarantees essentially comparable protection of fundamental rights." - That is to say, one wants to develop the EU further, but on a very specific basis and in a very specific framework. In addition, the provision reads as follows: "The Federation may transfer to this effect by law with the consent of the Federal Council of Highness. For the reasons" - which is the essential phrase - "the European Union, as well as changes to its contractual bases and similar arrangements, which allow this basic law to amend or supplement its content", certain rules are to be observed. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, in the Federal Republic of Germany, there is a provision - with long-term effect - for how EU law is transposed into German constitutional law. I have read this provision because it shows a blatant lack of our constitution: We don't have such a determination. We are, as it were, limping from one EU act to the other, and we decide - unfortunately falsely so-called "authorisation laws" which clearly testify to the fact that there is a gap in our constitutional law. I also regret this gap in our constitutional law because our constitution is obviously not as EU-ready as German. I also regret this for a second reason: It would also be a good thing for our constitution, through its good tradition and its good principles, if it were to set such a barrier to integration. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The interpretation of the gap is not allowed!]] It is a matter of whether it is a real or false gap, Mr Khol. - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5306	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karlsson. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5352	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! What's this about? - Mr Brauneder has said a correct sentence: We have already held the whole discussion here in detail. We have led them once again in committee. The arguments rotate in the circle and are limited. It is about the constitutional basis for the approval of the Treaty of Amsterdam, under an authorisation law. I share the dissatisfaction with the name also expressed in committee. The question is just how to call it different. If one says - on condition that we are the legislative and the government is the executive - that is "execution law", then that is not beautiful and raises other associations that are not pleasing. Maybe you could call it a "commitment law": The Government is instructed by Parliament to submit to Parliament a draft government proposal for the adoption of the Amsterdam Treaty. That would be a possibility. It is a question of initiating a two-stage procedure. Today we authorize the government and then there will be a detailed discussion on the subject. The deadline is set - and this is also mentioned in my amendment - in the way that Austria entered into force on 1 January 1989. In July 1998, the Presidency of the EU took over and it is therefore favourable to have brought the discussion and adoption of the Treaty of Amsterdam to the stage. That's why it's all about nothing else. The arguments have already been put forward in this House, as has been said. Our group considers that this two-stage procedure is appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5386	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5404	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Liberal Group does not consider this procedure appropriate. As Mrs Karlsson has concluded with the words that she considers the two-stage procedure appropriate to the problem, I would like to oppose the fact that we do not consider this procedure appropriate to the problem. We believe, above all, that the government template itself, as well as the debate in the Constitutional Committee, has shown that this is an unfair attempt to establish an analogy to the Federal Constitutional Act on Austria's accession to the European Union at that time. This is therefore an inadmissible analogy because this two-stage procedure was then accompanied by a referendum. The qualitative difference is very important in this matter. Otherwise, in our view, the method would be that the Federal Government would in principle obtain such empowerment laws in order to avoid the proper transformation of international law into national law. Mr Brauneder has already made the appropriate remarks here. The Committee debate was also clearly a debate on: Can we afford to be so sloppy about our federal constitution? I also said in committee: The government parties have the two-thirds majority, but that is no reason for them to deal carelessly with the two-thirds majority! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Klubobmann Khol also pointed out in the Committee's debate that when the accession procedure was discussed, consideration was given to the possibility of a different approach in the future. This other way, however, cannot mean that a lower barrier is being removed than it is now by the kind. 50 of the Federal Constitution. As a result of this article, all constitutional provisions should be expressly referred to as such. In view of the fact that we are now a member of the European Union and that similar acts will be done even more often, it would certainly be possible for us to advise in all peace and care what new articles we need in the federal constitution so that in future we can implement such international treaties with us in a proper, simple, clear and politically sound form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5446	Mr Dr. Mock has now come to speak. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5465	Ladies and gentlemen! You can certainly discuss the realistic way of doing this. Since the procedure we have chosen in the accession process - an even more important act - has also been respected by the Constitutional Court, I think - we have discussed it very thoroughly in detail - it is quite justified, in this case too, to choose this procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: People's vote!]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Make a referendum!]] The important thing is that this Treaty of Amsterdam contains more security and more opportunities for peace in Europe, because this is a further step towards integration. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to underestimate legal correctness in any way, but that is the objective of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief reference to this thread, which is going through, starting from the European idea after the Second World War to the last discussions in Avignon, where German-French discussions took place again after the somewhat difficult process in the field of economic and monetary union. At that time, the debate was about the ever more stringent and closer cooperation. That is, cooperation was a dynamic process. The concept of "ever closer cooperation" has already been found at the first major conference of the European Movement in The Hague in 1948, and it has been found again in the Treaties of the Montan Union. There have been setbacks. The Montanunion was the first major treaty to establish the legal basis for integration and clarify the objective. The goal is a Europe that never again knows a national war of one people against the other. The swing was so great that they said: After the Montan Union, the political Union and the Defence Union will come immediately. But the defense community remained stuck: Six states have signed, but only five have ratified, so that the Union of Defence has not been established. At the time, the political union remained. They were transferred to the economic sector. The Treaties on the establishment of the European Economic Community and Euratom were concluded by the Romans. One wanted to bring the peoples together about the economy, and that was successful. Then came the big bow: At the beginning of the 1970s a decision was again taken on the basis of a report by the Luxembourg Prime Minister Pierre Werner on economic and monetary union. This report has also remained unchanged. It then came to the Single European Act, which laid down the common market in particular. Then followed the great step of Maastricht. There, for the first time, the whole of the integration measures towards a political Union was channelled, and there also the economic and monetary union commitments began. Economic and monetary union was the only great opportunity to make a high-quality leap in the area of European integration. It automatically fixed the need to bring together and coordinate the budget policies of each Member State. A large amount of discipline was required. Ladies and gentlemen! Who would have been able to accept ten years ago, for example, what Italy has done about exemplary, committed, disciplined measures in the sense of rehabilitation of state finances? - No one would have believed that! Competition is to some extent a good establishment. The competition to be the first in Europe has brought many advantages: Rehabilitation, new opportunities, new competitiveness. Amsterdam has added a number of things that Maastricht has not yet been able to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my view, therefore, this Treaty is a sign of hope that it will continue despite all difficulties and setbacks. He is also an admonition to carry out ideals with realism, i.e. to comply with the procedure to which Jean Monnet has advised: Not with a great swing, not with a constitutional instrument and a constitutional assembly, the United States of Europe will be created, but step by step in a democratic process, often laborious, persistent, but ultimately always with success. So it will be with the so-called enlargement of the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Europe. It will be more difficult than we imagine it and than these countries imagine it, it will take longer than they imagine it and when we Austrians wish it to us, but it will be necessary. We should operate it actively. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially if we do not want a wage dumping, we need the same conditions in these countries as we do. As long as the difference in living and production conditions is as great as now between Austria and the neighbouring countries, the young generation will continue to desperately try to get over and be recruited on the black market and possibly also to push down the wage level. But if we have to produce there under the same competitive pressure as we do, it will be so that this immigration is largely eliminated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Transitional solutions will be found where there are concrete interests. That has already been the case and will continue to be so. But these countries would not be in line with both the moral solidarity obligation and the concrete economic interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this case too, we should follow the recipe that has proved successful in recent decades: A little more confidence, a little more optimism! The Austrians are better than they sometimes believe. In this way, we will certainly be dealing with this process, this peace process of enlargement to new countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5538	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's You have an 18-minute speaking time available to you, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5556	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Member of the European Parliament. Very soon: In my opinion, there will be much to be said about the substance of the Amsterdam Treaty and the issue of enlargement. From our point of view, this involves a lot of criticism of the Amsterdam Treaty. I share your opinion on some of the arguments you have put forward here in connection with the enlargement of the East, but this is not the issue today. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Exactly!]] Today it is about creating the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Treaty. In this respect, I share the opinion of the other opposition parties: This procedure is not only not correct, but also dangerous. It may not be dangerous here and today in a democracy - we appreciate it - despite some turbulences and scandalous events, but one should not make laws that could perhaps become a boomerang under changed framework conditions. First of all: Mrs Karlsson has already mentioned not only the unfortunate but really impossible description of the law in Austria: One should leave one's fingers in this country by "legislation of empowerment"! Secondly, it was argued that the same procedure should be chosen as in 1994. But that's not it! There was a referendum and a constitutional law in 1994. This time we are leaving one part - the referendum - and we are still talking about the same procedure. That's not the case. Now you're saying, At the time, one has not mentioned the constitutional parts, so one cannot do this at all. But all the opposition groups were ready to think about a constitutional way in which, without this so-called "permissive law", we can take into account the will of the majority - as it always stands - to the will of a two-thirds majority. It is undisputed that this has to be done. My view that this procedure can be dangerous is based, above all, on the following considerations. There is no doubt that 1994 has changed the principles of the building of this democratic Republic of Austria, based on a vote by the Sovereign. The way in which they have been changed is now difficult to determine, as the canon of Austrian constitutional law - the constitutional law sui generis, as you mentioned in the Committee - is no longer described and therefore no longer limitable. Now I ask you: Where would there be the point from which we should refer again to an overall change in the Constitution? How far could another basic Treaty at Union level give rise to an assessment that it is an overall change if we could no longer see the existence of constitutional law - this no longer known to me of the constitutional law sui generis - and the simple legal situation? Is any further change in the democratic and rule-of-law principle an overall change? What change is it not? - I think it is precisely the constitutional history of this country that we must insist on being careful on these issues. And I miss this care! Reasonless, as I said, because we could have gone a different way. I come to the third and last point: Somehow I was angry about the cover of the law. Because when we are told literally in it: "Alternatives: None", I have to say, that's not true! It was already in the Presidential - based on information from the President - very likely a number of alternatives. It seems that this has not been wanted politically. But writing that there would have been no alternatives is wrong. In fact, I do not wish that such misinformation be passed on from the government side to Parliament. In relation to the costs, this cover also reads: "Cost: None." - That's wrong, too. For even if this is only about the constitutional basis, it must be noted that each legislative act, of course, entails costs within the meaning of the federal cost accounting guidelines. You should look at these guidelines better! For I think it is a strong piece that Parliament is constantly monitoring compliance with federal budgetary law and pointing to § 14 of the Federal Budget Act, but it seems that in practice this regulation is not taken care of at all. For these three reasons, we cannot accept this draft Government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5594	There is now a speech by Mrs Dr Gredler. 7 minutes time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5612	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to take out the freedom and, like Mr Mock, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, talk about the content of the Treaty. First of all, I quote Mrs Ursula Stenzel, who said: "A mountain has cracked, and a mouse was born." - How right she is! We are all disappointed with the results of Amsterdam. We all expected more, and we miss some reforms very much. For example, the EU has not joined the Human Rights Convention. This is an important information, and perhaps you could fight me for the EU to join so that we can improve the human rights situation within the EU. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But, Mr Schwamlein, it goes further: There is no Europe-wide human rights-compliant asylum law, and there are no sufficient rights for third-country nationals. Transparency in EU decisions remains to be desired. The fight against fraud is still only half-heartedly anchored. Furthermore, there have been no clear provisions on the exodus from nuclear power. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to You will admit that you would have liked to see it as much as I would like the exit from nuclear energy to be anchored there. This has not happened, and Austria has not demonstrated it either. That is why our group sees the need for action in this area. They may not like nuclear energy that way. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, we consider it very important that we develop an exit scenario in Europe. That is why I regret that we have not succeeded! The European Parliament's right to co-operation is also to be desired. I would like the EP to have the full competence for the budget and not only half of the budget. Unfortunately, the whole agricultural sector cannot be determined by the European Parliament, although there are the most difficulties in this sector. Mr Schwemmlein, you will have to give me the right. What should we do? - We must work together to improve co-determination rights. We need a right of initiative for the European Parliament so that we can continue on this issue and secure funding for farmers, but on the other hand we also need enough money for other unemployment programmes. I come to the conclusion because Mr Schwemlein is already very tired and wants to go home. In the case of qualified majority voting, the areas - and I would like them to be - of taxation, sensitive environmental issues, culture, industry, free movement of persons, right of establishment, social security. - Social security should also be of your heart, Mr President, even if you are tired now. We would like to see a broad debate not only in Parliament but also with the population. That's not what happened. The difference between the events surrounding our accession to the EU is that there has been a referendum in the front. This is not the case with the Treaty of Amsterdam. That is the qualitative difference, and that is why my group will vote against this motion today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5673	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the report has not been desired. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1168 of the supplements. This draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, so that I first of all, within the meaning of § 82 para. 1 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this draft law to give a positive signal. - That's the majority. In this context, I expressly note the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to give an appropriate sign. - The draft is also adopted in the third reading by a majority with the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. 4. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law amending the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991, the Administrative Criminal Law 1991, the Administrative Enforcement Act 1991, the Subsidiary Act, the Agricultural Procedure Act, the Informationary Law, the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991, the Administrative Court Law 1985, the Security Police Act, the Foreign Law 1997, the Commercial Code, the Public Prosecutor's Act 1982, the Federal Law on the Federal Law of 1996, the Law on Public Law 1985 and the Federal Road Financing Act 1996 (1167 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5732	We're coming to the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. That is why I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Jarolim in this debate. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5756	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In due time: We are discussing today an administrative process reform which could be a quantum leap due to the reduction and simplification of administrative procedures. It is particularly important to stress that the whole of the reform has been created and debated here in the House. The draft has high quality, and I would like to thank all those who have worked on it, especially Professor Dr. Ewald Wiederin for his cooperation on investment procedures and with Mr Mag. Christoph Lanner on the topic of UVS. It should be noted that in the original conception we had planned a further improvement which would have brought about further simplification, but which unfortunately was not enforceable. Only very briefly on the priorities: There is a redesign in the application to the Authority. In the future, there is the possibility not only of correcting formal defects but also of correcting the content during the procedure and of amending the applications in the appeal procedure. There is a new regulation in the case of pre-exclusion, which is set up in the form of the fact that the loss of the party's position occurs if no objections are raised until the conclusion of the negotiations. A special feature applies to large-scale procedures, i.e. procedures involving more than one hundred participants, for which maximum publicity is provided. There will be a rallying of the application in two daily newspapers and at the same time in the Official Journal of the Vienna Newspaper. In this context, it should be noted that the Official Journal of the "Vienna Newspaper" will also be available on the Internet in future. This will also increase publicity. Loss of the party's position in the main proceedings occurs if objections are not raised in due time prior to the negotiation. Summary: The simplification of the procedure will lead to a significant reduction in the duration of the procedure and thus to a significant advantage for the Austrian economic location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5796	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5815	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The content of this new law is indeed significant for the future of administrative procedures. My colleague, Mr Jarolim, has already referred briefly to the content, so it is sufficient, in my view, to point out to you all that you could read the cover, i.e. the introduction, and also the explanatory remarks on the content of this law. Very briefly, I would also like to draw your attention to the process of the creation of this law, which was a special and in some way more unique: Complaints about long and too long administrative procedures are often heard by each of us. We keep raising this complaint ourselves in conversation. - The causes of this are diverse: Fragment of the legislative instruments with regard to both procedural provisions and material content. However, the call for an amendment to the relevant section has not been successful in recent years. That is why I have initially drawn up a draft within the ÖVP within the framework of a working group with experts. As a result, there was a second draft from the SPÖ, and finally we agreed in the Subcommittee to draw up, with the involvement of all the political groups, a third proposal which could be made for the decision. In this way, it was therefore possible to introduce a unanimous decision in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, it is possible, even if at the ministerial level, nothing happens at first - afterwards, cooperation in the BKA and in our clubs was very good, and I would like to thank all those involved very much - to put in place in our ranks a legislative initiative in the way that ultimately there is a law on the decision-making with which, like me, we can all be very happy. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5845	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. First of all, however, the honourable Member has now made a statement on business matters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5866	Mr President. Unfortunately, I don't have a microphone, so I have to talk loud. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Stadler was now on the floor. However, since he is not present, the Klubordnin has nominated someone else, although it has been agreed in the presidency this afternoon that this process is not possible. In a similar case, you have once said that you cannot control whether Stadler himself has changed because you were not there. But now you have been there, Mr President. It was a colleague of his, the folder of the club that re-named him, not he himself. That contradicts the agreement! Mr Stadler would have to be removed, and Mr President Brauneder - whom we all, of course, very much like to hear as a speaker - would have to speak as the last speaker and not in this place on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5900	Deputies! It is in line with a constant practice in this House that a resubmission may be made by the competent Member nominated by the Club. And I'm staying with this practice now. Mr Brauneder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5933	Mr President. High house! I would like to say at the outset that I really don't care if I speak 10 minutes earlier or later. I think if I speak now, it's over faster. That's how you could see it! [[Prolonged calls.]] I would also like to comment very briefly on this draft law. As it is not about the implementation of EU law, it is an act which is completely in our sovereignty, my criticism is also very small. It is, as it were, zero because the text of the law, as it is now present, was drawn up by two officials of the House, namely, as I believe, by a club official of the Social Democrats and by a club official of the Freeman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] [[Further calls.]] I would just like to say that this is an extremely necessary reform of these procedural laws. I can tell you that my group will agree. And if it turns out that the Austrian People's Party and other parties here in the House have also been given substantial ideas, our approval will become all the more joyful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5981	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6000	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join my previous speakers. The reason why I am going to the speaker's desk is that I too consider it necessary to express a certain amount of thanks. Because the law on decision-making today is really making significant progress. I would expressly like to add that to the Minutes. My group will vote in favour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6030	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6048	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that such a significant matter is being negotiated at this time of night. I will allow myself to address this in the context of the budget debate on the administrative reform. - For today, I recommend approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6079	Mrs Mag. Frieser is the next speaker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What has not yet been mentioned here is that this reform of the AVG is an initiative of the colleague's head. A threefold high to my colleague's head!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6129	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). You still have 12 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6147	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Although little has been said about the contents of the law, they cannot be read. I would like to stress very briefly that I too believe that the head of Parliament really deserves praise. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] In our view, the results do not give rise to euphoria, but in the course of the negotiations it has been shown that the opposition was taken seriously in the proceedings and that it was possible to actually make substantial improvements. I can therefore say with good conscience today: It is a compromise of which we believe it can prove itself in practice. I have the feeling that this will make it possible for the citizens concerned to exercise their ecological interests in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6189	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We are therefore immediately voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1167 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - The adoption is unanimous. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask for a sign of approval. - The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 5. Point Government template: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bolivia on the promotion and protection of investment (667 of the supplements) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary work)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6245	We're coming to the 5th. Agenda item. The preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. There is no word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure. The purpose of the vote is to approve the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bolivia on the promotion and protection of investment in 667 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The majority of the consent was granted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6297	I am still saying that questions 4399/J to 4404/J have been raised at today's sitting. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-12-020-XX-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6318	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingl has left this sitting unpunished. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 13. May 1998, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
