ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3807	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you – with a renewed microphone system – and open the 138. Meeting of the National Council. Meeting of the 1998/99 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3832	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 9. In September 1998, in accordance with Article 28(l)(c) of the basic Regulation, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other part, on the other hand, on This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. This resolution is the reason why today's sitting was scheduled. The Official Protocol of 137. Meeting of 17 March 1990 It is therefore deemed to have been approved. For today's session as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Langthaler, Mag. Head and Dr. König. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3862	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Willi Fuhrmann has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Otto Pendl. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words "I promise". I can now ask the author, Mr Auer, to read the vow formula and call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3886	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3902	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3917	I very much welcome the new colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3944	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Mr. Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Martin Bartenstein is represented by Mr. Federal Minister for Defence Dr. Werner Fassleven. In addition, the parliamentary groups were informed of the fact that Dr. Schüssel, Minister of State, went abroad in an EU function. Mr Ferrero-Waldner has his parliamentary office with Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3968	The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has announced his intention to make a statement on the mine accident in Lassing. It was envisaged that this declaration should be the first item on the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with § 19 para., I will be sent to the Minister of State after the current hour. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e3989	We therefore reach the current Hour with the theme: External initiatives on the protection of children worldwide The first speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4019	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! – I quote from the headlines: "For 13 years sexually abused." – "Mother and four children killed with knife." – "The two-year-old Melvin was tormented to death." – "Children's pornography in Bad Goisern revealed." These and similar crimes of the body and soul of children have been committed in Austria in recent months and years. Such and similar headlines shake the public daily. Let's just think about the series of child murders in Belgium. Worldwide, children are threatened with violence every day and need our protection. The International Children's Assistance Organization "Save the Children" indicates the number of children who are newly victims of commercial sexual exploitation every year in Asia alone, with more than 1 million. UNICEF, the United Nations Children’s Aid Agency, also shows shocking facts. More than 28 million children are growing up worldwide in crisis regions. In the last ten years, about 2 million children have died in armed conflicts. In the last ten years, about 4 to 5 million children have been seriously injured. In the last ten years, about 12 million children have been expelled from their homes due to armed conflicts, and in many armed conflicts in the world, children are already used as soldiers from 12 years of age. The child assistance work also shows the economic exploitation and poverty of children. It counts the number of children who die every day from the effects of malnutrition and poverty to 34 000. – I repeat: 34,000 children daily! That's over 12 million a year. Two thirds of these children die of avoidable and easily treatable diseases. But also the economic exploitation of children is bitter everyday life for millions of young people. The United Nations International Labour Organization, the ILO, estimates that 250 million children worldwide work from 5 to 14 years of age. About 150 million children work full time, 100 million part-time. 80 percent of these children work unpaid. Children who are paid for their work acquire up to 25 percent of their family income. Behind all these figures are fates – fates of children who, if they survive at all, have been drawn a lifetime, a lifetime will suffer the consequences of abuse and violence. It is therefore our duty to protect children from violence and abuse, not to look away, but to look at it, and, above all, to help ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] One of my predecessors as a family minister, Ruth Feldbrill-Zankl, broke a taboo with the order for a study on child pornography. After the publication of shaking data and facts, the centuries-long silence on sexual abuse has finally been broken. The number of known violent offences has increased dramatically. Nevertheless, the number of the dark is terrifyingly high. The general public discussion followed in the study has also led to concrete improvements in the protection of children in Austria. I remember exactly when the "platform against violence in the family" was created in November 1992. It was one of my first actions as a family minister, which I was able to put in place and which has contributed significantly to the fact that, above all, those organizations which are faced with violence in the family, who experience it daily, are interconnected with each other and thus improve their care. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, the development of legal provisions to improve child protection also resulted. For example, the Anti-Violence Act has created a framework that significantly improves cooperation between courts and security authorities in the event of family violence and gives additional powers to the executive bodies. The aim of victim protection was also to develop a symptom catalogue, which is mainly awarded to the executive, but also to a group of people who have to deal with children regularly, i.e. nurses, teachers, and also doctors. This also gives a corresponding networking, a corresponding information, a corresponding handing. And finally, it will finally be possible to establish a central reporting point and a network of notification points for abused children in the context of the corresponding youth welfare, so that the "hospital tourism" of some parents will also have an end to injured and abused children. The federal states have agreed to develop child protection and crisis centres in order to provide emergency assistance for violently exposed minors and to ensure social support as well as psychological care. There is also a need for adequate number of treatment sites in the Federal Republic of Germany, and also for the expansion of women's homes. There are also, of course, a number of private initiatives, such as "Die Möwe", an association for the protection of abused children, or the "lobby for children", which was created to promote awareness-building in the public, and which has already achieved a lot in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to victim protection, the fight with the perpetrators – especially as regards sexual abuse – is also a major challenge, especially since the perpetrators in their childhood were often victims of sexual violence themselves. But it cannot be said, ladies and gentlemen, that for the perpetrator there is more mildness and understanding than for the victim! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Nor can it be said, ladies and gentlemen, that sexual offences in Austria are less suspected than property crimes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A 1998 newspaper section shows this very clearly. [[The speaker holds a board with an enlarged newspaper article of a daily newspaper. The article is entitled "Extreme Milde für Kinderschänder".]] I quote: "Wiener went to a hundred victims in Thailand and Hungary – only three months in prison. – Copyic punishment for gang members, theft three cars – four years in prison." - Quote. That, ladies and gentlemen, must not be and should not be! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, child protection must not only be restricted to direct sexual violence; it is also our prioritized task – in the course of the new media, corresponding to child protection – to protect children from, for example, pornographic representations on the Internet. In the course of the "Lobby for children" we have also set up a hotline, a central reporting point where appropriate events can be shown. [[The speaker holds a panel with an internet address.]] It is, however, particularly necessary to cooperate internationally in this area. I am therefore very pleased that Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel and Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein are using the Austrian Presidency in the European Union to give priority to child protection and to provide protection for children internationally in the light of the public. It already has, on 4 and 5. September in Vienna, a conference to this end; more will follow. Ladies and gentlemen! We can only protect children in terms of the internationalisation and globalisation of crime if we also act internationally and globally. In this sense, we must make every effort to ensure the protection that children urgently need, which they deserve and which we are responsible for.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4146	In order to deliver an opinion on this subject, the Secretary of State spoke. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4167	High house! I am standing in front of you today, because, as you know, the Deputy Chancellor and Foreign Minister has gone to Moscow for a Troika mission to talk to the new Russian government as soon as possible about the forthcoming difficult negotiations and about the difficult question of the crisis. High house! When we discuss peace and freedom in Europe, we easily forget those people who are unable to participate in discussions that no longer have an alternative to fight for naked survival: those 100 to 200 million children and young people who live worldwide in slums and on the streets, or those 2 million children who are commercially abused and exploited every year. And this does not include at all the much greater number of darkers of sexual abuse in the family or the number of millions of children and young people who have been delivered to a brutal struggle in suffocated pits, weaving chairs, on plantations or on garbage mountains of large cities under the most harsh conditions: the fight against the cold, the fear, and hunger. Worldwide, there are 250 million child workers between five and 14 years of age, 120 million of them working full time. You have no chance of schooling or some leisure time. It's sad, but it's true: Millions of children have no chance of a decent existence from the first second of their birth. For them, childhood never begins, or it ends much too early. For me, it is a fundamental question of the moral-ethical quality of our society, how sensitive it is to the needs of the weak. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Those who neglect children, abuse them, harm them physically, mentally, or sexually, break their souls. Only if the vicious circle of poverty and violence succeeds will there be progress. The churches, the relief agencies and numerous non-governmental organizations are also exemplary in this area. I would like to take this opportunity to express great thanks and recognition to these organisations on behalf of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian foreign policy is trying to make various contributions to this progress. In the context of foreign policy, we have therefore defined, among other things, the protection of children as a priority of the Austrian EU Presidency. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our aim is to ensure comprehensive and cross-border initiatives to protect children and young people and to make the best use of the Union. The European Parliament has already very much welcomed this Austrian objective. Our next stages are: Federal Minister Schüssel will call for increased protection of children worldwide at the United Nations General Assembly in New York next week. For the EU General Affairs Council on 5 July. On October, we put the theme "World-wide Child Protection" on the agenda. The European Conference on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was held at the European Conference on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It will also deal with this issue on October. We will also discuss the issue of the global protection of children in the transatlantic dialogue in December of this year. Through the massive support of the ILO programme for the elimination of child labour, we contribute to mastering the economic exploitation of children. Our aim is to conclude a draft convention on the worst forms of child labour by the end of 1999 and until the annual meeting in one year. In Geneva, two additional protocols to the UN Children's Convention are about to be negotiated with the aim of protecting children in armed conflicts and from sexual abuse better than before. In this respect, there has been virtually no EU coordination. On the initiative of our Austrian Presidency, it has now been decided to convene a special expert group on child protection within the framework of the CFSP Working Group on Human Rights in order to better prepare the next working groups for the preparation of the two additional protocols and thus contribute to an overall strategy. Federal Minister Schüssel has already called for effective measures to be taken last year against the exploitary tow and has proposed to convene an ad hoc United Nations Committee in the context of the work on an International Convention against Organized Crime. In January 1999, Austria will deal with the development of a protocol against tow and will also focus on the protection of towed children. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the Austrian Development Cooperation in Kenya, Zimbabwe and Nicaragua, I have financed projects for the vocational training of street children and in Ethiopia for the resocialisation of young prostitutes. In Rwanda we finance projects for the resocialisation of juvenile criminals and the reintegration of minor soldiers. We work closely with UNICEF and UNIDO on all these projects. You should know that it was a very special concern to me to find a network of the bi- and multilateral possibilities of cooperation. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] High house! New forms of child abuse are added to the known forms of child abuse. The Internet promotes the rapid dissemination of child pornography. According to all previous experience, the consumption of child pornography usually provides the ground for child abuse. These new proliferation risks are very difficult to deal with. The Internet must not become an electronic contact for child abuse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== September a working session on the fight against child pornography on the Internet, initiated by Federal Minister Schüssel, which was jointly organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Environment, Youth and Family. Experts from the economy, public life and science discussed the technical, legal and ethical aspects. The results will appear in a special issue of "External Action Documentation". For the first half of 1999, we also plan an international conference on this topic here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There has also been and is a growing number of activities within the European Union on this subject, but with little coherence. Federal Minister Schüssel will also address the call to all Member States and to the European Parliament to conclude the proposals currently under negotiation, namely the action plan to promote the safe use of the Internet and the Austrian initiative for a joint action to combat child pornography on the Internet, perhaps even this year. Other international initiatives must also be strengthened. For example, a focal point will be set up at the United Nations for the better international coordination of activities in the field of child pornography, the involvement of UNICEF, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Vienna UN Crime Prevention Centre, and UNESCO and the Council of Europe. High house! In many countries of the world, however, children also need our help in a very different area: in the fight against one of the most cowardly weapons of our time: Antipersonnel mines. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Antipersonnel mines are not visible, one cannot protect oneself from them, and the pressure of a infant's weight is sufficient to bring them to the explosion. In most cases, it is also children who are mutilated. As part of the Austrian Development Cooperation, I have already made 10 million Schillings available for mine clearance projects in Mozambique and Afghanistan in July 1995. Another amount of 7 million Schilling was also provided for in 1996 under the multilateral and bilateral EZA, and this year another 10 million Schilling is planned for the continuation of activities in Mozambique. In the framework of so-called Mine Awareness Programmes, we support, in addition to mine clearing activities, training for self-help, information programs on the dangers of anti-personnel mines and the rehabilitation of landmine victims. In Mozambique, one of the world's affected areas, I was able to convince myself of one of these mining projects in February of this year. I must tell you, I was shaken, especially when I saw the child victims. That really doesn't leave anyone cold. I am therefore very proud that Austria has been one of the first states to vote in favour of an international ban on mines – I am done immediately – and the National Council has passed the law on bans in 1996 with the votes of the representatives of all parties. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Of course, the ratification will continue, and we hope that the 40 will be deposited. Ratification certificate is issued in New York during the week of the General Assembly, with which the Antipersonnel Mine Convention could actually enter into force. This would continue to be a great advantage for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4305	Thank you, Mrs. State Secretary. – The current hour is now a part of the debate. Speech time: 5 minutes each. First speaker is Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4330	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! And I would also like to welcome the spectators of this television broadcast. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a Kasperltheater! That's it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals, to the SPÖ, to the Liberal Forum and to the Greens.]] The vehement fight against child abuse, child injury and child pornography is at the very heart of this House. We have also tightened and adapted the Austrian legal situation to initiatives that were set up by ÖVP's family ministers years ago. We have already introduced children's pornography paragraphs in an internationally exemplary way in 1994. In the § 64 criminal code of Austrian perpetrators who commit their actions abroad, we have made sex tourists, also here in Austria punishable. This too was an international example. And above all, we have drastically increased the punishments for children's children. The legal situation, ladies and gentlemen, is good. I therefore call on the judges and prosecutors from here to take full advantage of this legal situation and not to let the perpetrators use a mild temper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We in Austria have tried to protect children and women from violence. The violent person must leave the common home. This means, for example, that he has to go for a suffocating man – and not the woman and the children have to flee. The executive is called upon to enforce this dramatically even if women turn to the executive for help. We have also set up a notification office in the Ministry of the Interior – the Minister will certainly still report on it. Children's pornography can be reported on the Internet so that we can intervene. Here's the Internet number for that. [[The speaker holds a panel on which an Internet address is printed.]] If someone comes across the sides that hit him, then he should report this so that we can act and intervene internationally. Cross-border child protection centres in Austria, which were set up in the implementation of the UN Children's Convention, are exemplary and are also equipped with a hotline. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also for a perpetrator's cartel of child abusers, similar to the one set up in the UK. It is not a question of child abuses still running around as a dangerous potential after the punishment has been fined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we must also take care of the therapy in this crime work. And I therefore expect the doctors at a future work session at the Ministry of Family Affairs to know how this can be achieved in a technical way so that we can act as legislators. The EU Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, has helped our Vice-Chairman Schüssel as President-in-Office to make this issue a priority internationally. Mrs Ferrero has already explained that there was a working session in which we worked out, explained and discussed the fight on the Internet. It is not intended to defuse this medium, but we must investigate the perpetrators who abuse the children and the media, we must cooperate with the providers, and we must punish the perpetrators strictly. In the event of child abuse, there must be no mildness! The EU Presidency gives us the opportunity to set international priorities in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4390	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4412	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I and my group welcome the fact that today we are dealing with the issue of 'protection of the child from violence and child abuse', which extends from economic exploitation to sexual abuse to the sale of the organs of children. That this, of course, cannot only be an action by the Foreign Minister, in which I too will be approved by the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State. It is important that, in international activities, the expertise of all relevant Austrian bodies, in particular the Minister of the Interior, which is also the leader in the preparation of the initiative to combat child pornography on the Internet is introduced. Our Minister for the Interior, Mr Schlögl, is here leading, and I thank him for bringing Austria into a pioneering role in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The protection of children, both nationally and internationally, is a central task of our political action. So all the bodies, including the National Council, have to deal with this. This has already been a matter of concern, as have the United Nations and the institutions of the European Union. But what matters, ladies and gentlemen, is that the conventions and declarations of intent not only remain, but that they are also implemented. In order to combat the abuse of children and crimes against children, the Austrian authorities must work for this purpose. To this end, we have already enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children appropriate provisions governing the protection of children. The Vienna UN Conference called for attention to the rights of abandoned children, especially the millions of street children in the Third World, and to the rights of economically and sexually exploited children. Of course, sensible policy, ladies and gentlemen, is a policy of concrete action. I would like to point out that such a concrete initiative taken in 1996 by Klubobmann Dr. Peter Kostelka. It has sought to ensure that effective provisions to combat child sex tourism are enshrined in the criminal law. The Austrian provisions apply in this area, regardless of the criminal laws of the crime scene. In addition to its direct application, such legal measures also have a conscious effect. The tourism industry, after becoming critical, has responded after some time to sex tourism with child abuse and has expressed itself in Brussels in a statement against sex tourism with child abuse and against the event of such trips by its members. In our international activities, of course, we must not overlook the fight to abolish child labour – 250 million children, ladies and gentlemen, are working under conditions that permanently damage their health, according to estimates by the United Nations! – as well as the fight for the aggressment of child labour and those countries in which it takes place, which are almost all the Asian countries, many African states and almost all the countries of Central and South America. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] The best method for combating child labour needs to be discussed intensively. Austria should have an audible voice on the international parquet and within the European Union. I have already mentioned activities that we are pleased to see recently in the fight against child pornography on the Internet. Institutions are planned to exchange information on EUROPOL and INTERPOL. Internet providers are intended to set up monitoring bodies, or to examine information transfer. All activities to combat child pornography on the Internet are to be welcomed, and I think it is important. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also know that this can only be one level of our actions. We all know that worldwide and especially in the Third World, the priorities are different from those of us. . My colleague, Inge Jäger, will make more detailed statements on this. Of a just world order, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no talk at all,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4470	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4491	... – I am already at the end of the sentence, Mr President – as long as there is economic or sexual exploitation of children as long as children do not have the rights to them worldwide as long as the protection of children is not guaranteed. It is therefore our task to set clear signs of improving the protection of children in Austria, but also worldwide.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4525	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4546	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speakers that it is important to fight violence against children in all forms. I'm just wondering why you don't do the close-up. They are all talking about the world you are going to be reorganizing, but they ignore the fact that you are a federal government that has the competence to do so. She overlooks – my speaking time is only five minutes, Mrs Colleague, so I cannot go into your interlocutory call – that it is in your competence, and you overlook the fact that, beginning this year, we have just held a debate on Mr Mühl, a pre-punished child abuser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] This has led to the fact that, after repeated advances by the liberals here in Parliament, at least a small criminal intensification was carried out before the summer. However, they have not been able to support the anchoring of the accompanying victim protection for children in Austria and thus a lifelong leadership for perpetrators who are passing away from our children. To what is of course in England, in America and in many other countries, you cannot be comfortable. They talk about Africa, but watch how badly the children are in our own country. These are the things that make you very unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point: If you say that violence must be combated at all levels, I wonder why the Federal Chancellor's Office is promoting an art catalogue for the Biennial with taxpayers' money, which includes a call for violence against children: A small child is depicted, naked and spread with legs, next to a penis. The Federal Chancellor subsidizes such a thing and writes a preface to it. This is laid down at international conferences to explain our cultural understanding. This is your Christian attitude, including those toward the family and the child. It's hypocrisy in pure culture that you're doing here at the speaker's desk! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the Mühl debate. Not even the Federal Chancellor was able to distance himself from it before Parliament. There, a person who was sentenced to seven years of prison sentence for child abuse is ordered to stage the Republic. He has not been promoted by private individuals. He was allowed to appear in the state castle theatre. He was allowed to be celebrated in the state ORF. These are the possibilities you have as a government party to drive in and say: If that happens privately, we can't do anything, but: We will do everything we can to prevent serious criminals from being promoted to our children with taxpayers' money and in public institutions. That would have been what you should have done. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's still going on. There is an exhibition in the Secession in which the famous large picture of Mr. Mühl is exhibited. Mother Teresa is presented in a disparaging situation. The Minister for Education does not find anything to do with it and lets this picture be displayed in a state-funded exhibition. School classes are being driven to make sure they have to look at this. Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel, who is said to have such a big heart for children that he is currently organizing a campaign across Europe, informs me in a question that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is thinking of subsidising this exhibition in the Secession as a travelling exhibition abroad with an amount of 800 000 s. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: He knows exactly: without a mill image! Stay with the truth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Typical Haider!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Speak against better knowledge!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is your dual nature, which you have to put on the pretzel once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for the Interior! They say they want to fight child pornography on the Internet, and for three years, with an amount of between 1 million and 1.5 million Schilling, they promote the project "Sex on the Internet" in which you can look up everything. The links are there with which you can get to pornographic representations. Now we have received an answer to this question: Last year, the project of the Federal Chancellery was supported with 1.5 million Schilling in terms of pornographic representation on the Internet. The Minister of the Interior makes himself and says: We'll do everything we can to fight pornography on the Internet. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly the point where your credibility is destroyed. Minister of the Interior! You announced to us a year ago that you will be fighting these machinations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4632	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4648	I come to the conclusion and I would just like to ask you more: When are you finally acting instead of promoting this kind of representation and violence to children with millions of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4678	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4699	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The speech we just heard irritated me. It is therefore not pleasant for me to have to talk about it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then go back to your bank! It doesn't force you! Except Mrs Schmidt, you're not forcing anyone to talk!]] Part of this speech has already been made before the summer and has also been corrected before the summer. I don't want to go closer to that. Mr Haider! But now we are talking about foreign policy activities. It would have been a valuable time to place or discuss those points on the agenda that really deal with foreign policy. This is also an accusation I could make to Mrs Rauch-Kallat. There is actually consensus in the House: We want to protect the children. We want them to live an uncomplicated and happy childhood. We are aware, however, that this has not been achieved at home or abroad. Only a very small proportion of children is truly privileged and can take the memory of a happy childhood as a life experience with adults and thus preserve a positive attitude to the environment and to their environment. What do we want? . We want to make it better for the children in Austria. We want to achieve that the poverty that exists in Austria – especially children are affected by it – will be combated. But we also want to achieve a lot of things abroad. Mrs State Secretary, some of them have already been caught up in this House. But what I miss is much more than that: Children are sold. Children are being tortured. They starve and are murdered. They're starved. I have already said here in the House a year and a half ago that we should talk about aid programmes in North Korea, where poverty or hunger affects children above all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you really say about the conditions in Austria?]] I would like to focus today on two issues, which I believe are very important. One issue is the circumcision of women, and the other is that of the child soldiers. The circumcision of women affects 135 million women and girls worldwide. This corresponds almost to the number of women living in the European Union. Women's circumcision is carried out in 40 countries. Religious reasons are often given as justification; female circumcisions are carried out in the religious communities of the Muslims, Catholics, Protestants and the Copts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a nonsense! That's a fool! No one will be circumcised with the Catholics! It's such a nonsense that you're squeezing here! For religious reasons, this has nothing to do with the Catholics at all! In Muslim countries, but not in the Catholics! That's a nonsense!]] These documents relate to a study carried out by the United Nations. She's no nonsense! This is done in both African and Asian countries. I would like to continue with this issue because it is so important to me. We're watching. There are applets that these women and these girls want to protect. There are Applets that are there to carry out education in these countries and to re-training those women who carry out the circumcision. But on the other hand, in Austria we do far too little against these cruel tortures of girls and women. I would like us to introduce this as an asylum ground across the EU. If a woman flees with her daughters because they are to be circumcised, then we should accept this as an asylum ground. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This has already been fought in the United States and Canada in the courts. In my opinion, we should work to ensure that such a measure is taken. Federal Minister Schlögl, you are now present, therefore: I would like you to have such an initiative. I wanted to say a few more words to the child soldiers. We have 300 000 child soldiers worldwide to complain about. A large part of them are kidnapped, bought and integrated into an army without knowing what this means for them. It is a convention in June of this year in the World Security Council...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4761	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4783	... it has been decided in which these practices are condemned. Mrs. State Secretary! I would like us to join the world in defiance of the use of children in the war and to take initiatives in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4816	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4837	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Good morning, Secretary of State, Minister of State. In 1989 – this is my link to the theme of the day "Austria's External Policy Initiatives for the Protection of Children" – the Convention on Children's Rights has been adopted by the UN. This Convention on the Rights of Children, which for the first time constitutes an intergovernmental treaty dedicated entirely to the rights of children and is therefore really something one-off, has in mind above all the area of a decent and child-friendly growing and growing young people. This Convention on Children's Rights, as it is called, was adopted by the UN in 1989. A year later, in 1990, it has already been signed in Austria. Austria joined her. Two years later, in 1992, the National Council also adopted it, but with a reservation of fulfillment. Subject to compliance, we accept an international document, but we do not feel bound to it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a process that only serves to preserve the appearance, because there are no obligations in terms of content. Since 1986 the ÖVP has been in the Federal Government, this document has been signed in 1989. I wonder why someone complains of himself that nothing is happening worldwide to protect children if even a soft instrument such as the Child Law Convention – for there are no individual rights or opportunities for children, but only states commit themselves – is not respected internally. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we write the year 1998. It is the "Year of Human Rights", 50 years have passed since the signing of the Human Rights Declaration. Austria has been a member of the Council of Europe for 40 years. Today I have also heard nothing from the coalition parties, in particular from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, from their Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel and also from the Secretary of State, that Austria is thinking of seriously putting this child law convention into national law. [[Mr Fekter and Dr. Khol: We did that!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Fekter! Dear Mr. Klubobmann! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Call a point that has not been implemented! Call just one point! What point, Mrs Stoisits? You can't mention a single point that's not implemented!]] It is a little bit, on TV and because the day is so nice to talk about children's rights. However, when it comes to what is involved, namely to bind and commit our own country, in order to be an example to others – and that is the essential thing for me – then you do not set an initiative. Mrs Gredler! Mrs. State Secretary! I do not want to compare Austria with those countries that you have listed, namely Kenya and Nicaragua, where the standard of children's rights is certainly much lower than in Austria, even though these countries may also have signed this Convention. From the point of view of human rights – children's rights are human rights – Austria is on a much higher level. This level must be increased, and this level must also be questioned and implemented over and over again. Mrs Fekter! That is what I expect: that the Federal Minister, Vice-President and EU Council President Dr. Schüssel, at the moment when he has the greatest power he has ever held, also uses it, that you are doing something here in Parliament, that the Federal Minister is doing something at all those levels, where this is possible, and that we can find solutions in this way together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come back to the statements by Mr Rauch-Kallat, who at this point has acknowledged the great merits of her party for child protection and crisis centres. For me, this is actually what politicians and politicians have to do. Because it is not about praising ourselves for what has been done – we are finally paid to protect children. She then betrayed herself when it came to implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Criticize yourself! But what we've done we can't mention?]] Then she said: The federal states have agreed to set up child protection centres for children's lawyers. You've agreed to do this. Yeah, just as it is, they've explained themselves ready. There you use a man or a woman who performs the function of a child attorney or a child attorney, and that's it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4910	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4925	Mr President. Financially, the child and youth prosecutions are so bad that they can try and work the soul out of the body, but this alone is too little. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true at all!]] Its task in the EU Presidency year is to ensure it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4964	The Federal Minister is now speaking in the debate. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e4985	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Unfortunately, I only have five minutes at my disposal. Unfortunately, it is not possible to comment very detailedly on this subject in 5 minutes. I would, however, like to say the following very clearly: I do not agree with Mr Haider's statement that during my term of office, the Austrian Ministry of the Interior supported some studies on sex on the Internet with 1.5 million schilling. I can rule this out from my side. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I said Federal Chancellor's Office!]] I felt like you thought that this was being promoted by the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to rule out that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I said Federal Chancellor's Office! There's a request!]] Mr Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I will then give you a question from the Federal Chancellor, who came yesterday!]] In the same way, I would like to reject the statements that the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian Parliament have not done anything about child protection in recent years. The opposite is the case: There are a number of initiatives that have taken place from this House, which have been implemented by the Federal Government and which have the objective of protecting as far as possible the lives of children and young people in Austria, to protect them from suffering and to help them. I would just like to address two initiatives which seem very, very important to me: An initiative is the Sacrifice Protection Act, the Law against Violence in the Family and Against Violence against Women. This law is with 1. May last year entered into force and finally gives the Austrian executive the opportunity to engage in such conflicts if there are such dangerous areas in the family and against women. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Against the voices of the liberals!]] The previous successes were very, very good. In the last quarter of the year alone, more than 1,500 directions have been made. This has enabled us to make a significant contribution to reducing violence, hatred and family conflicts. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! The second area, which seems to me very, very important, is that, at the initiative of Parliament in the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, we have set up a central reporting point against the misuse of the Internet in the field of child pornography and radicalism, especially right-wing extremism. In this year alone, we have actively received 268 reports on child pornography material. In 124 cases further investigations were carried out, of which 15 ads affected Austria, and 109 ads were forwarded via INTERPOL to the competent foreign authorities. That is, only this number shows how necessary and important this central reporting point is in the Ministry of the Interior. In the next few days, we will be expanding this notification point both in terms of personnel and in terms of organisation, because I believe that this is a very, very important and necessary institution. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, I should like to point out that the Austrian Presidency in the area of the Internet and against the abuse of the Internet has launched a number of initiatives in order to achieve a common approach within the European Union. Some of them have already been said by the Secretary of State in the representative of the Federal Minister. I would like to address some of the things that seem very important to me. We recently, namely, 3rd. In September, a joint action to combat child pornography on the Internet was launched in the relevant Council Working Group on Police Cooperation in the area of the European Union. We have proposed a number of measures. We want to achieve that this year, in Europe, in each Member State, a national reporting body is set up, with the task of preventing the spread of child pornography and the intensification of law enforcement. Secondly, We will do everything we can to further strengthen cooperation between law enforcement authorities in cross-border investigations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, there has recently been a cross-border activity, namely a joint campaign involving more than 20 countries. Austria has also become active.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5070	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5085	I believe that this measure is very important. In addition, there are also a large number of other measures, which are mainly aimed at increasing the responsibility and responsibility of providers than they have so far. I believe that all of this – national and international measures that have been taken – is important building blocks that point in the right direction. I admit that much more needs to be done to prevent the terrible abuse of children. But the development is on good track, and we can successfully implement it together.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5121	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5146	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! I have expected that if the Secretary of State presents us today, which foreign policy initiatives are to be undertaken directly during the Austrian Presidency, most of this House will also give its support to them. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Most of it, but not the liberals!]] As was expected, however, the Freedom Party has used this appearance by Dr. Haider to address the art debate in Austria, not the foreign policy initiatives. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That must come to the public!]] One question raised is: Do you not know, Dr. Haider, the subject of this present hour? Or don't you have anything to say? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Typical Haider!]] I think the latter is the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if you are already concerned about this, it must not stop as you have described it here. They explained that Mrs. Gehrer had supported the Mühl images in the Secession with financial resources from her department. You are quoting a parliamentary question, the answer of which is exactly the opposite. I quote Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer: "The exhibition was not supported by the above-mentioned project resources or by other means of my department." – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a fact, and I can hold it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Typical Haider!]] Secondly, you have explained Mr. Mühl with his pictures as your express opponent. That's legitimate. What you have not mentioned is that your member of the European Parliament, Sichrovsky, has carried out advisory work there in the municipality of Mr Mühl. [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] An interesting detail, ladies and gentlemen! By the way, Mr Sichrovsky, who represents Austria in the European Parliament, lives in Los Angeles and works for the FPÖ in Washington. A great personnel situation of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! Remarkable! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you are already addressing the question of child pornography in Austria: Currently, as I take the "NÖN", a process is under way in Wiener Neustadt, where a councillor of the FPÖ is accused of spreading child pornography on the Internet. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Right in the FPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd say, Make order in your party! You have every reason to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I do not want to deal with FPÖ alone in this contribution. I think it is worth stressing that Austria should now take the opportunity, during the Presidency, to set out foreign policy initiatives in particular to protect the child. The Secretary of State has pointed out that there is a Convention on Children's Rights, whose two additional protocols are currently "stopping". The fact that they are not particularly promoted by parts of the European countries represented in the EU is also a fact. If, as part of the Presidency, Austria could bring these two additional conventions to their conclusion, that would be an important point. It is about how to protect children in armed conflicts, and it is about prohibiting pornography, prostitution and trafficking in children and setting up initiatives in this regard. I think this is very important and underline that Austria can play an important role in the international community. I also believe that, as part of the ILO, we can lead children towards child labour. The Presidency gives us the right to do so, and it offers the opportunity to set up initiatives. I believe that it is also very important to raise awareness towards the protection of the child. If, in his speech to the UN General Assembly in the Presidency, Mr Foreign Minister can put a little more weight on the protection of the child in the centre than only that of the Austrian Foreign Minister, this is, I believe, a huge step forward. We should all welcome this, ladies and gentlemen, and not with other details. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would therefore also like to say to my group that the objective of signaling a solid but also initiative presidency is in reality at a very good stage. I also believe that we can be confident that this Austrian Presidency will be a strong presidency and the reputation of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5275	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5296	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, the exploitation, abuse and abuse of children are among the most disgusting crimes of human society. And that is why, Dr. Haider, this issue is too serious for cheap polemics and falsehoods. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What was an untruth?]] I'd be ashamed of such a speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am glad that Austria was one of the first European countries to create a law in connection with sex tourism in the previous year, and that criminal acts have also been committed abroad. We owe this to an initiative by Klubobmann Kostelka. Furthermore, the initiative of Minister of the Interior Schlögl is based on the fact that Austria has put in place international measures to combat child pornography on the Internet. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What was not true?]] In order to address this issue, however, it must also be put into a context of global poverty. For children are among the weakest in a society and thus also among the first victims. That is why I am glad that, in the context of development cooperation, we have also set up initiatives in Austria, for example, to give priority to projects in which women's economic power is strengthened. This also benefits children, for it is still the case that 165 million children suffer from a lack of nutrition that 12 million children die every year from diseases that are easily avoidable. In terms of development cooperation, we also need further decommissioning programmes for the poorest countries. This is already necessary in order to discharge the budgets, as the savings programmes will no longer be able to spend money on education and health programmes. It has already been mentioned today: A big drama is the children's work. Child labour is both the result and the reason for poverty. According to reports by the International Labour Organisation ILO and UNICEF, about 250 million children between five and 15 years of age work under exploitation and dangerous conditions. There are carpets made by children in our shops, like footballs made by children! It is important for us to address this issue, that we support those initiatives which guarantee the ban on these most dangerous forms of child labour. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does the EU do about it?]] We also need to support the demands of the International Labour Organisation, which, on the one hand, is in favour of the abolition of the worst child labour, but on the other, above all, we are in favour of setting rules in the international labour process to ensure that we are able to recognize the conditions under which products we can buy in our shops under which they have been manufactured. A particular focus must be placed on all international initiatives against the sexual exploitation of children. This is really one of the worst crimes. Criminal rings earn billions with child prostitution, child pornography and child trafficking. One must see this in connection with the catastrophic situation of the children. Men from Western industrialized countries are driving to these countries and using these children. I believe that on the one hand we need to raise awareness of this issue much more, but on the other hand there must be more international laws to combat this incredible crime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress once again: I think we've already started with a few laws. However, this needs to be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5376	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5398	Mr President. High house! Mr Spindelegger! As far as Mr Sichrovsky is concerned, I admit that not everyone can live in the backyard. I admit that. But you have a credibility problem when you step out and try to represent things more beautiful to present your little backbrows world more beautiful than it actually is. Mr Spindelegger! You have overlooked the fact that it is your Foreign Minister – I have to present this, the answer to the question – your Foreign Minister, Schüssel – that is the one with the mesh, if you have forgotten it, who has been promoting this exhibition by Mr Mühl for years. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Ministry of your Mr. Schüssel. City of Vienna, ÖBB and Erste Oesterreichische Spar-Casse – this is your savings bank, which is in the vicinity of the Austrian People's Party – promote the exhibitions of Mr. Mühl. Ms. Gehrer has opened her in the Museum of Applied Art – the resort-responsible Mrs. Elisabeth Gehrer, who is supposed to be a Christian socialist – ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Dr. Stadler!]] She was also in the Secession. She said she didn't even see the picture with Mother Teresa. So she's obviously marched through this museum with a flaw. She didn't see things. You promote them, you pay them, and then you act as if you had nothing to do with them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You obviously have nothing to do with the Biennial Catalogue, which Mr Haider has already mentioned. In this is the picture you have kept silent. It is your federal government that sits in it your people and have the responsibility to present such piglets to an international audience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Biennial catalogue, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Look This is what you're looking at. Get a little red with it and generate for your government to finance such a thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In 1996 – I call you the numbers, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, perhaps you can start with numbers more than with children's photos – 900 000 S, 1997 1.5 million Schilling, 1998 1.5 million Schilling. That is to the 4 million schillings of tax money you have spent on these piglets, ladies and gentlemen! You're there, and then you're playing as a moral apostle! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not want to return to the debate on Mr Urs Allemann's book 'Babyficken', ladies and gentlemen. There, the ÖVP threw himself into the dishes for Mr. Allemann so that he could get the Bachmann Prize, even the State Prize he received for his book "Babyficken". You just woke up. [[Abg. Kampichler keeps an issue of the "Nederösterreichische Nachrichten" with the headline to the height: "Children's porn on the Internet a 'FPÖ-Racheakt'?"]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: FPÖler bring children's porn!]] You, Mr Schwimmer, have never taken care of any child protection. Not yet! Apart from the fact that you want to disburse yourself, Parliament and the concerns of the people have never been worth a pepper. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You laughed at the people. At that time there was a lady who had collected a total of 150,000 signatures. We made a petition with 212,000 signatures before the summer break. Now you're awake. In the evening, Mr. Khol, the lazy will be diligent. Now you're awake. Now you're pretending to have to do something at international level. In Mozambique you must protect the children, you must protect them everywhere, only in Austria you do nothing, ladies and gentlemen! You're tough, that's your problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria now has the Presidency of the Council – again the Lord with the Mascherl – in the European Union. They do not do anything to ensure that the EU finally prohibits imports of child labour products. No, no, no, While cashing, you're doing business. But in Parliament, the Secretary of State acts as if something had been won with a convention. The transatlantic dialogue on child abuse will take place now, you said. Mrs. State Secretary! With all due respect: With your transatlantic dialogue, you can't do anything. You have to do something in your own country! That's what your own minister says. He said a few days ago in a press release that in his own country, national law must begin to combat child abuse. Where are your longer limitation periods for child abuse? Where are they? Where Your rules for longer penalties? Where is the life-long management supervision, which is now – you hear and marvel! – in August, the justice speaker of the Socialist Group also demanded. You just have to be amazed. Mr Jarolim suddenly advocated a reporting obligation on sexual offenders, in other words, that they should be monitored after the arrest, constantly. That means as much as life. Welcome aboard, Mr Jarolim! You've needed a long time. 212,000 signatures of the FPÖ have caused something.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5515	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5530	You know what, Mr. Colleague: Pack your paper and take care of the convictions you have just made as a bad after-speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5561	The Secretary of State is speaking. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5582	Mr President. High house! I would like to address very briefly the accusations made here by the Freedom Party. I would like to say that the Foreign Ministry has clearly given its opinion in a reply to a question. I would like to read one more question. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It is planned to make 800 000 S available for the hiking exhibition! That's the picture!]] If you could have it externally, you shouldn't have put it on here. May I also use my short speaking time here. Internationally, it is common for foreign ministers or other competent authorities to support works of fine art in foreign tours. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Maybe you can listen for a moment too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Call ÖVP and SPÖ: Listen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Hiking exhibition with the Mother Teresa fucking! A hiking exhibition where the mother Teresa is depicted as a fucking being!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's representative? Are you still saved? This is not representative of Austria!]] I would like to say the following – now you listen! –: I think it is very surprising that you did not say a single word about children in a foreign policy debate on the protection of children. Obviously you weren't interested in that!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5673	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). If there is any doubt that a member of the government can speak several times in a debate, I would ask you to pay attention to § 19 GOG – regardless of the fact that the individual contributions to the discussion must not exceed 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5712	Mr President. I don't intend to enter an art debate here. This has already been discharged. However, I very much intend to enter into a foreign-political debate on child protection. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ towards the Freeman:Listen once!]] And since – it has already been said in the debate – you should actually be glad if Austria in the Presidency takes the opportunity to present Austria better in Europe and in the world. The protection of children should also be yours, but it is obviously not. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5754	Thank you, Mrs. State Secretary. The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5808	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very difficult to get back to an objective level in this atmosphere here in the House. But I'd like to try anyway. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat, you have already mentioned numbers that stop. My figures on child labour are much higher, and I have the latest figures from the Internet. For example, according to ILO alone, 370 million children between the ages of 5 and 14 work in developing countries. 120 million children – girls and boys – work full time, 250 million children part-time. Of these 370 million child workers, the majority work in Asia, 61 percent, 32 percent in Africa, 7 percent in Latin America. But children also work in the Western industrialized countries. For example, in Germany, according to a study by the federal states, a total of 600,000 children, ladies and gentlemen, work! I believe that these are the figures that must be questioned, and we have the opportunity to do so today. But I do not want to acknowledge what has been done against child labour in many respects. I am thinking of the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, the ILO Convention against Exploitation of Child Labour. We know the Convention on Children's Rights of the UN and we also know that almost all nations have signed this Convention on Child Law. We know about the dedicated work of UNICEF, which is opposed to child labour on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But, ladies and gentlemen, with all the commitment of these institutions, we have to note today that, apart from appeals, publication of brochures and publications of measures, there is little to be felt. Even the most comprehensive international document on child labour, the ILO Convention No. 138 concerning the minimum age for admission to employment, only 49 of the 173 ILO Member States have so far been signed, including no one state from Asia, and neither the US nor all Western European countries have ratified this important Convention. To the memory, ladies and gentlemen: The Convention obliges its Member States to take political measures to finalise child labour. It also states that no child is of school age, but not before completion of the 15th century. Year of life, in any sector of the economy, and it sets the minimum age for work which could endanger the child's health, safety or morale at the age of 18 years. So good, so right. But what I have to find and question today in all the well-informed proposals, in all the consecrations of the EIA women, is why Austria has not yet implemented this ratification, which would certainly contribute significantly to the fact that child labour in all countries would be even more sustained. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs State Secretary – the Minister is unfortunately not here – I still hope today to answer my question as to why this is so. On the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and on Failures in Austria, Mr Stoisits has already commented, and I would just like to underline her criticism. Mrs Rauch-Kallat and Mrs Mertel. Whether reporting agencies, women's houses, private institutions and so on, which are intended to ensure victim protection, can work efficiently, if we do not provide the necessary resources to do so, is also to be questioned. Unfortunately, as we know, in the 1999 budget estimate, little is planned for this. Unfortunately, good words, ladies and gentlemen, do not replace any necessary means. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mrs Colleague! There are also the countries!]] The countries too need the money, and you know exactly what it looks like there. We Liberals, of course, support all external and internal initiatives to protect children. But it is also a fact that children in Austria are increasingly falling below the poverty line. About 1.5 million children under the age of 15 live in Austria, of which about 20 percent are at the poverty line. For families rich in children, we know that it is even a third. Ladies and gentlemen! I could say a lot on this issue. Unfortunately, the speaking time is over. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5856	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5877	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the colleagues from the Liberal Forum and the Social Democratic Party for the very material contributions. I am shocked at the rest of the debate. It is hypocritical and repulsive, as you are holding a game with the fear of children, where you know exactly that all parents in Austria – whether they are wearing red, blue, black, green or otherwise – share the same fear of their children, that what we should discuss here is not a question of party politics. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Nevertheless, I would like the following comment – and this is the problem that makes it so difficult: All parents – and many of you, I suppose, are parents – share this fear, but yet violence to children happens in order to take out only this one sub-area, mostly in the family area. And that makes it so difficult for us to deal with this issue seriously and seriously. There is no mention of your Mr Mühl and his escapades, Mr Stadler, far and wide. It is disgusting and hypocritical what you have listed here, and it has nothing to do with the issue we should discuss. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I am also surprised, Mrs State Secretary, that you have gone on the glue to the liberals in so far as you have not answered why the Convention on Children's Rights in Austria has not yet been implemented. We often discuss in the Committee that there are still a number of points in the implementation of the Convention on Children's Rights, and you have not answered the question raised by Mr Stoisits. I am also surprised that, although all the political groups – and of course we also – condemn child labour, for example, there is no mention that a group – and we have it in a few minutes regarding a debate – which is also active in Austria, has children working abroad. I'm talking about Rio Tinto or Luzenac or Lassing. Why don't we discuss this? Politics closes the eyes: Well, that's it! I also do not think that the proposal is good to disregard those countries in which child labour is carried out. I consider the proposal to be superior to what companies consider to be. But then we have to remove certain companies from our own country, and that is not just Rio Tinto, but there are still a number of other companies. I also wonder why, when we talk about the protection of children in general – not only at national level, but also on an international scale – we do not bring in our Austrian experiences regarding, for example, the dangers of children in road transport. Every year hundreds of children in road traffic are unhappy. We in Austria actually knew what to do about it – about speed 30 at least in schools and kindergartens – but we are even juicy. It would be interesting to see what this would look like in the framework of international initiatives, also in the interest and protection of children. If we were to discuss all of this in the context, but really everything, Mr Stadler... [[Abg. May. Stadler: To your mill!]] It's not "our mill." It's your Sichrovsky and not our mill! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is your mill!]] Mr Stadler! I'm not ready to discuss with you at this primitive level. [[Congratulations on the Greens, on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm just saying, It is necessary, if we want to lead this debate seriously, to take all aspects out of it. I am therefore grateful, Mrs Gredler, that you have stretched out the aspect of children in the military. But it would also be expected, for example, from the Austrian Federal Government, not only to be proud to have finally enforced the ban on human mines, but to ban all mines and, of course, to ensure the protection of children during the war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] It is necessary to prohibit all mines and not just the human mines, because whether children are killed by a tank mine or by a human mine – they are dead. These would also be initiatives that could be set up by Austrian policy. You should play less with fear, but do less politics. That's what we're asking!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5953	I declare the current hour to be over and thank the Secretary of State. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e5974	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6206	The following shall be taken into account: With regard to the Agreement between the Member States of the European Communities on the simplification and modernisation of procedures for the transmission of requests for extradition in 1204 of the Supplements and the Agreement between the Member States of the European Communities on the prohibition of double prosecution and the Declaration by the Republic of Austria in 1205 of the Supplements and with regard to all documents of the World Postal Association in 1358 of the Supplements, I can, after consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference pursuant to § 28a of the Rules of Procedure, propose to waive the allocation of these items to committees and to take them into account when drawing up the agendas of the next meetings. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6237	There is indeed a word on business treatment, but I would like to say before that the honourable Members are allowed to do so. Mr Stadler and Mr comrades have asked for the written question put to Parliament before the entry into the agenda 4852/J. Mr Stadler and Mr comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior on East Mafia contacts. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6261	I would also like to say that Mr Hans Helmut Moser has asked the Committee on the Interior to report on the motion for a resolution 713/A by Mr Moser and Mr Comrades concerning the arms law for a period of six months. ==References== In this context, there is a desire by five Members to hold a short debate on this deadline request. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you know, this short debate will be called upon after the urgent question and then the vote will be taken. Mr Stadler has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6288	Mr President. High house! Two days ago, an official of the Department of the Interior, EDOK, accused several members of this House of having close contact with Mafia. Several ministers, both active and former, were also addressed. The President has even seen the need to clarify, in a letter to the club people, that he has no contact with Mafia. Your name, Mr President, has also been mentioned. There is a photo – we have checked it – on which you are pictured with a mafiapate; it was taken in the reception hall of this house. Mr President. I think these things are so important – according to the rapporteur-general, they have already adopted a state-of-the-art measure – that I am seeking to carry out a special presidial with regard to the further procedure. I would also like to ask you to hold a short debate on this request for special-presidials.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6319	Deputies! The President shall be responsible for holding or not holding a presidential conference. I believe that, after this letter was sent out yesterday morning – and you have not felt it so urgent since then, yesterday afternoon or today, we are asking for a special presidial, which would have been possible – and, moreover, tomorrow, a presidential is planned not to hold a debate on whether those special presidials that are not required yesterday afternoon should now be carried out. I therefore decide that we are not interrupting this sitting, that there is no special presidial now, but that I will convene a presidential meeting for tomorrow, 8.15 p.m., which we can then continue in the already planned presidential session at 5 p.m.. Next, Mrs Petrovic referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6352	Mr President. In the face of ten unfavourable miners, I do not respond to Mr Stadler's speech. On the other hand, I suggest something else: I have reason to believe that the information provided by the Federal Minister is incorrect. The written report sent to Parliament is certainly incorrect. The Federal Minister said yesterday that he had received the decisive new news shortly before the "Time in Picture 1". That's wrong. He's got the decisive map, as it was yesterday, since...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6370	Mrs. Colleague! What is your business desire?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6386	The Federal Minister has had the crucial information since the 1st century. ==References== I therefore suggest that, in order to prevent further confusion, the detailed information now available to the Federal Minister and the Heads of State or Government will be distributed immediately to all the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6410	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have put the report of the Federal Minister on the agenda together. The Minister now has not only the right but also the duty to report. Then there will be a debate, and in this one can offer all the suggestions. I do not see a business regulation option to force certain documents to be distributed before the report is kept. Mrs Dr Schmidt also referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6434	Mr President. The Liberals believe that the debate on the disaster in Lassing must also be attended by the Minister of Justice and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I thought it would be useful for the Federal Minister for Justice to explain to us why investigations are being conducted against the unknown and because of joint threat and why, in his view, it is not possible to clarify the facts. I think it is particularly necessary that the Federal Chancellor sit here on the government bank because it is not enough for me to say to journalists that, as has been said for the time being for the time being, the first report of the Bergbehörde was not sufficient. The APA issue says – I quote now – that: "On the question of whether he already had the impression that something could be hidden here at the time, climate said, 'It was the representation to me one-sided. Therefore, I insisted that the government did not identify itself with the first report and therefore did not agree.” – I think it is necessary for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to inform parliamentarians of why he clearly considered this report to be tendential. I therefore propose that we vote on the fact that the Federal Minister for Justice and the Federal Chancellor should appear in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6475	Thank you. The next speech would be that of Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, but I am obliged to vote on Mrs Dr Schmidt's request. It is an application in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, which, as They have heard, as follows: The presence of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Justice is sought. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mrs Dr Schmidt's request for a sign. – This is not the required majority. The application therefore has no decision in accordance with § 18 para. Mr. Klubobmann has reported to Dr. Kostelka for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6518	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Lassing, a very tragic accident has happened, in which rumors have appeared for a long time and, according to official reports since last night, it is not excluded that the blame lies not only in nature but also in human action. This is for me from the outset, but also for my group as a whole, the reason why, since the first days of this accident, we have been insisting on the fact that there is no remaining information.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6536	Please, what's your business desire?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6552	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this debate is the first step in the field of information immediately and without delay, and Parliamentary foreplays, which essentially go by, namely, the political and administrative responsibilities, are no longer being continued.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6584	Mr deputies, we shall hear the Minister of State at once. However, I have two more statements on business management; one is withdrawn, the second is Mr Haider's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6609	Mr President. In view of the fact that there is a suspicion that an incorrect report has been submitted to Parliament and that the Federal Chancellor was also invited by Mr Wirtschaftsminister yesterday evening to a discussion before the publication of his recent version, we have reason to believe that Mr Bundeskanzler is involved in the misinformation given here, a misinformation which goes beyond what Mrs Petrovic has said, because for two years since 1996... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6633	That's what I'm talking about. What is your desire, Mr. Klubobmann?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6648	I'm already there. If you listen to me with the same patience as you have listened to Mr Kostelka, you will hear it right away.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6667	To this I have made exactly the same request to formulate his desire.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6682	Mrs. Petrovic has said since 1. August one knows about these changed circumstances. We can tell you that since 1996, the modest situation that both of them – the Federal Chancellor like the Minister for Economic Affairs – have been known to be reduced. That is why I must assume that the public is deliberately lying, and therefore the Federal Chancellor must also speak and answer to Parliament. I propose a special presidial in order to define the appropriate procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6718	To claim that a false report has been returned to Parliament, I can only say that the report will listen to us now, and it cannot be wrong before it has been repaid at all. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs pursuant to § 19 para. 2 GoG for mining accident in Lassing
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6746	That is why Mr Farnleitner now receives the floor to make the statement he wanted and accepted from the President-in-Office. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6775	Mr President. High house! I have probably experienced one of the most difficult and difficult hours during my term of office as Minister of Economics yesterday evening. For the first time, I was personally confronted with evidence that confirms an illegal degradation in the Talkbergbau of Naintscher Mineralwerke GmbH. I was and am still faced with the still unresolved question whether, when, why, and why not the competent mountain authorities of first instance, the main mountain team Leoben, knew of this degradation. I have given you every information, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the information contained in my report to the Council of Ministers, to the best of my knowledge, on the basis of the reports of the experts of my home. I have always tried to separate rumors clearly from facts. The facts that I am supposed to have and must be available to the public. Therefore, yesterday, when I was informed after 7 p.m. on the basis of concrete documents on the new findings that have now been made, I immediately gave notice of this on the media. I have asked for an objective examination of all transactions from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My conversation with the Federal Chancellor, Mr Klubobmann, was the mere call that I will go to television immediately on the basis of the new information available to me. That's all we talked to each other on the phone. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "by chance" before the debate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to inform you briefly about the information I have received yesterday. In principle, the mining system in the Lassing valley mining system runs in so-called disks from top to bottom. The individual discs are almost completely dismantled and the mining chambers are filled with gastric concrete. Below the current ping is a disc 1A, which is slightly higher than the so-called Jausenkammer, from which Georg Hainzl was rescued. The decommissioning in this area began in 1995. In the main business plan 1996/97, mining activities in this area were identified and approved by the main mountain team Leoben. The main business plans 1997/98 and 1998/99 showed no reduction on this disc 1A. Accordingly, a decommissioning activity is not covered by the approval of the main business plan. In addition, the 1997/98 approval notice shows that the disc 1A was finished in 1996. The Supreme Mountain Authority had commissioned the Leoben Mountain Team to carry out surveys to clarify the cause of the pit accident. ==References== On September 1, 1998, documents, including the so-called working card, were handed over by the Naintscher Mineralwerke, which demonstrate that from 1995 to June 1998, exactly from March 1995 to June 1998, degradation activities were carried out on this disc 1A. At this transfer, a protocol was drawn up, which was also prepared by the plant manager, Prokurist Dipl.-Ing. Hermann Schmidt, is signed, in which the contradiction between approved and completed destruction was recorded. This, ladies and gentlemen, makes it clear that from March 1997 to June 1998, unauthorised mining operations have been carried out. According to the work card that is now available, so far as the accident has not yet been filled with gastric concrete, hollow spaces have been in this disc. During rescue, this card is not available to the forces. I immediately informed the Procuratorate Leoben about this new situation yesterday evening by fax and letter. Similarly, on my behalf, the President of the Ministry of Economic Affairs initiated a disciplinary investigation against the authority of the first instance, the chief mountain team of Leoben. The commissioning of the International Investigation Commission announced by me immediately after the mountain accident was already announced on 17 November. ==References====External links== August, it's done. The Commission will be appointed by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Eggehard Rother of the European Commission, Directorate for Safety and Health, which is also responsible for mining issues. He was asked by the Ministry of Economic Affairs for an examination of the rescue work, but also of the arrangements in advance of the accident. Mr Dipl.-Ing. In the meantime, Rother has nominated an expert commission, which has been nominated by Mr Hans Ambos, President of the Oberbergamt Clausthal-Zellerfeld in Germany, Mr Louis Koch, Mr Président de la section technique du Conseil des Mines in France, Mr. Professor F. L. Wilke from the Oberbergamt Clausthal-Zellerfeld and Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Röhl, head of the main office for mine conservation in Germany. Mr. Ing. Dr. Rother was asked to present, as far as possible, a first interim report during autumn. High house! However, the existence of the current findings on the illegal reduction would have facilitated the initial attempts to explain the outcome and cause of the accident, but nothing would have changed the difficult rescue situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I am still aware that we owe the members of the unfortunate miners and the Austrian public a complete clarification of all the operations. ==References====External links== In July 1998, ten miners were killed. Only one man, Georg Hainzl, could be found alive out of the pit. For the relatives and friends of the ten men remaining in the mine, we can only find words of compassion and use all our strength to relieve their pain and at least to secure them materially. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But also Georg Hainzl has my personal compassion. He will probably take a long time to cope with this traumatic experience. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to make an account to you today of what I have put in place as Minister responsible for the department. However, I cannot tell you today about the causes of this accident as a whole and whether all those involved have made the right decision at any time under the circumstances. To clarify this is the task of the prosecutor's office and the international expert commission. The assessment of the course of the rescue measures and the security measures put forward in the run-up to the disaster will hopefully bring clarity to the still open questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the accident, I have repeatedly been confronted with the claim of chaotic states at the beginning of the rescue phase. Let me make a few clarifications about this. ==References== On July 1st, at lunchtime, the first mud breach took place in which Georg Hainzl was shed, employees of the Supreme Mountain Authority tried uninvited to be on site as quickly as possible in order to be able to help. Univ.-Doz. Dr. Leopold Weber from the Oberste Bergbehörde, who was in the car on his way to Vienna, heard about the accident on the radio and turned around at Semmering to drive to Lassing immediately. Dipl.-Ing. Herbert Fagerer was appointed by Mr. Weber in the afternoon of the 17th century. In the late afternoon, he was also contacted in Salzburg. The pump specialist Dipl.-Ing. Josef Schöggl of HL-AG wanted to help directly on site and reached Lassing on Friday around 7 pm. Dipl.-Ing. May. Alfred Maier, who was on his way to the holiday in Carinthia with his family, arrived in Lassing on Saturday at about 3:00 a.m. All of them – except Maier, who arrived only after the big break-in – drove in the afternoon of the 17th century. ==References====External links==* Official website These works, ladies and gentlemen, were started by the operation before the arrival of the mountain authority in accordance with the operational emergency plan and were therefore carried out on their own responsibility and not on the orders of the mountain authority. The establishment of an emergency water system was therefore urgently necessary from the point of view of the experts, as an uncontrolled increase in the water could have led to a flood of the so-called Jausenkammer, which could have caused the drowning death of Georg Hainzl. As was later criticized, a clear organisational structure was missing in the first few days. The mountain law, ladies and gentlemen, provides that, in the event of a crisis, the managers of the company will be responsible for the rescue plant, with the Bergbehörde making arrangements for safety, provided that it considers this necessary. In the specific case of Lassing, where almost half of the workforce was under shock by the accident and the management was proved to be under shock, the company was clearly overburdened with this task. I was informed of the difficulties on the ground and was able to convince myself about them on the spot. I ordered on 21 March. July Dipl.-Ing. May. Alfred Maier from the Oberste Bergbehörde to the operational manager. Until the transfer of responsibility for the mining work to the Naintscher Mineralwerke by notice of the 15th anniversary. In August, he was responsible for the rescue work directly with the Supreme Mountain Authority in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which entered Leoben on behalf of the main mountain team. In my view, the accusation that Lassing was "down and above" often raised in the public also requires some clarifications about the causes of this impression. First: The uncoordinated press work, which the management had expressly reserved itself in the initial phase, gave many occasions to distrust. Only after taking over responsibility by the Supreme Mountain Authority was regular press service ensured by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. Secondly, The non-responsible involvement of media representatives in initial meetings, in which different opinions from experts were very emotional in part, has made a decisive contribution to the impression that chaos prevails. Thirdly, There was little public understanding from the outset that Lassing was not all the equipment to be used in such an extraordinary accident. Similarly, there was no understanding at first that the necessary drilling equipment was individually requested and that drilling of this type usually takes several weeks. External professionals such as Mr. Ing. Abraham of the OMV has repeatedly stressed that the not always easy equipment acquisition has led to no significant delays. Fourth: I was able to convince myself of the structured and relevant operation of the operational team through the presence of several operational management meetings – then excluding the media. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take a closer look at my area of responsibility and explain to you the measures that have already been taken. From the beginning, I have defined five areas of activity for my work: first: Rescue or rescue of the missing; second: Help for family members; thirdly: Help for the people on board; fourthly: To secure jobs in Lassing, fifthly: To secure the future of the valley. Top priority from the beginning was the rescue or recovery of the missing miners. I would like to stress that, despite all the scepticism expressed by experts about the possible salvation of those suffering from accidents, I have repeatedly insisted on the continuation of rescue or mountain effort, insisted on it, and also sought to give my support to the forces operating under great public pressure and personal stress. I have also made it clear that no cost should be saved and that every Council and any aid, wherever it may be, should be used to advance the rescue work. Let me quote here as an example that, for example, in the geophone measurements of the American expert whom we are delighted with, after a few hours, the Austrian technology of the American is far ahead, is less personal and leads to faster results. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also repeatedly stressed that there should be no further risk of life in the event of rescue or recovery. Minister of Finance Edlinger and I were on 3 March. In agreement with German Chancellor Climate and Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, August stated in an agreement that the Federal Government would submit for the costs of the rescue and recovery work, without prejudice to any legal claims. If we take seriously our promise to members of the ten missing men's recovery, we must also create the financial conditions for a recovery not to fail in the liquidity constraints of a company. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In consultation with Minister of Finance Edlinger this week it has become clear that the financing of rescue and recovery work will lead to a budget breach law already in the coming weeks, as the costs for rescue and recovery already amount to several 100 million schilling. In the meantime, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs itself has transferred several million schillings to the companies involved in the rescue, as they were in some cases already at risk of bankruptcy. High house! ==References====External links== In August, the recovery measures of Naintsch Mineralwerke GmbH were applied. Under the leadership of the company, national and international experts will draw up a preliminary concept for the safe recovery of the accidents that will be present in the coming week. Afterwards, the detailed planning and subsequently the recovery can take place. High house! We cannot relieve the pain of the survivors over the loss of loved ones. However, the least we can do for the affected family members and arrants is at least to take away the material concerns. I should like to thank the country of Styria and the head of state Klasnic for the rapid and unbureaucratic introduction of assistance measures for the family and locals. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These measures include direct financial support, ongoing psychological support, legal advice and the already started construction of replacement housing. I would add that we have agreed to avoid any risk and also to deplacate any potentially threatened home ownership, i.e. to build new houses or apartments. I would also like to thank the many individuals in Germany and abroad who have shown their compassion and their generosity with extensive donations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the rescue team once again on this occasion, because I have rarely experienced such stress, under permanent violation of all labour law regulations, without any rest period. I think it's only in the afternoon that you can make an assessment of what this troop has done. So thank you to everyone, including the volunteer helpers! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] High house! The mine accident in Lassing has also caused a deep uncertainty among the inhabitants of the valley about the security of the entire valley. This uncertainty is also underpinned by measurement results. I have therefore announced that a large-scale geological study should be commissioned to provide comprehensive information on geology and possible risk factors in the valley. To this end, an invitation to tender has already been issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which, in accordance with the provisions of the law, takes place until the 23rd century. October is running. I want to understand that my efforts at objective procedures at the same time also bring with it a certain period of time, which is required – see contract law – even if this sometimes runs counter to the understandable need for faster steps. Mr President. High house! The dimension of the mine accident in Lassing has dramatically demonstrated that the structures and training for such crises are insufficient. This was also initiated by the evaluation group I initiated – consisting of Mr Bruno Hersche of ETH Risk Management Consulting, Mr. Ing. Abraham confirmed by the OMV, representatives of the State of Styria and representatives of the social partners. I believe that one of the necessary consequences of this initial analysis is the establishment of training for crisis management. For this purpose, Professor Horst Wagner of the Montan University of Leoben has already developed a concept that provides for the introduction of a university course for crisis management and, in the course of a university institute for crisis management in Leoben. The course will be included in the Montan University's programme in the first half of 1999. The establishment of its own institute will require a preparation period of about 18 months. Ladies and gentlemen! In my report to the Council of Ministers, I have also proposed the establishment of a mobile deployment force, which should include trained crisis managers and press managers trained in crisis communication. The Council of Ministers has reserved the examination of my proposals by an interministerial working group. Initial discussions at official level have shown that the other parties are not necessarily seeking such a mobile deployment team. However, it is in my decision area to create such an operational team for mining. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the University of Leoben, the International Red Cross and the Austrian Mining Forces are currently working on a concept to ensure the rapid realization of this mining deployment group. This crew is therefore necessary because most of the underground mining in Austria is small-scale. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also proposed, according to Lassing's experience, that in the event of a crisis, the heads of state should first make the decision on the heads of employment, which is also in line with the wishes of the Heads of State or Government, and secondly, all derogations, such as transport permits and the like, should be made by the same persons. I would also like to inform you about what activities are being carried out to improve the information base in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I have commissioned a comprehensive digitalisation of the mine plans for the mountain captains, which are constantly to be checked from the relevant marker separators for their up-to-dateity. A digitization of the existing mapping allows for a rapid and above all three-dimensional representation of mine buildings. For the Austrian-wide switch to digital map plans, the markers estimate several months of time. I also commissioned the Supreme Mountain Office in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to extend the existing cartels through national and international experts and equipment. The employees of my house are currently working on the creation of a file that will soon include the necessary information and will be available via the Internet anywhere and at any time. Mr President. High house! In the near future, the National Council will deal with the amendment to the Mountain Law, which hopefully could happen to the Council of Ministers next week or later after lengthy negotiations. On behalf of the ÖVP – also as a consequence of the events of Lassing – I called for the integration of the mountain authorities into the district headquarters. This request has so far been rejected. However, if it remains, I can assure you that every legal and organisational re-regulation of my house requires a streamlining of the mountain authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the mountain law novelle to be dealt with by you in the near future must include a series of innovations that should ensure both a higher social acceptance of mining and the mining industry in Austria, but also the economic survival of this industry. The key points of the novelle are certainly the comprehensive Party position of municipalities, countries and arrants in the procurement process while at the same time streamlining and standardising the procedures and anchoring a clearly defined protection zone around settlement areas. Allow me also a clear word about the demonstrations announced for today on the Ballhausplatz. In the course of the negotiations on the mountain law, I told the Bergbehörde that no pending proceedings may be concluded under old law, i.e. the law in force. In contrast to this instruction, authorisations have been granted in ongoing cases of procurement procedures. In this case too, we will do everything we can to ensure that these steps do not cause any damage to people, communities and nature, and there will also be the necessary disciplinary consequences. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the events in Lassing, I have been repeatedly invited by members of the opposition parties to resign. I would like to stress once again: It is not my understanding of political responsibility to put me in a difficult situation ahead of responsibility. It is my job, rather, to contribute to addressing the problems and to consistently drive the implementation of the necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6863	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Before we start the debate, I should like to speak to Mrs Dr Schmidt, who has spoken on business matters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6887	Mr President. I have noted during the remarks made by the Federal Minister that his oral report is also available in writing – but only the club members of the government groups and the media representatives. I note that I think it is right that the media representatives should also have this report in written form. But I feel it is a desauvulation of Parliament that we are being measured by two measures, and we do not seem to think it necessary to present this report in writing to parliamentarians, and in particular to those of the opposition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is typical!]] I am therefore seeking to ensure immediate reproduction so that we can enjoy the same service as you obviously provide it for public relations, but not for Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6933	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister would like to comment briefly on this. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e6970	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My employees and I worked on this speech until 8 a.m. because it was still possible to look through some documents. We have therefore made few copies available. I would ask you to understand that the first four copies that were copied were quickly made available to your own clubs. [[Abg. Wabl: Your own clubs?! You are the Minister of the Republic! Incredible!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I meant, the government clubs. The printing machine in the house is running, and I assume that the missing copies can be made available to all Members during the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7014	Federal Minister! I too consider it a good parliamentary practice if all political groups could get this report. I would ask you now to arrange for the reproduction and also to make the report available to the opposition parties. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] There are now further statements on business treatment. Please, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7045	I believe that it cannot be contradicted that a minister is speaking of his political groups from the government bank, even on such a question, if he only makes his report available to the government groups. The fact is: It is common when something like this happens that at least all clubmen have to receive this report. Mr Minister, you could not have said more openly how catchy you seem to be. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore repeat my request: I no longer rely on the goodwill of the Minister and 'his' groups, but I request that the immediate reproduction take place and that the Members be provided with the report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7089	Member of the Commission. Schmidt! I supported your request, and the Minister has just said that the distribution will take place at the same time. Does anyone else want to speak for business treatment? – Mrs Dr Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7114	We have just received this report from Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. However, I note – because there have been very loud calls from representatives of the ÖVP – that: It was promised to us by the Minister's office that this report would be faxed to us half an hour before the beginning of the meeting. However, we waited for it in vain.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7138	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the debate. I call Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7162	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a sad occasion that has brought us together today to this debate, namely the tragic accident of Lassing, which has cost ten people's lives. I believe that before this debate begins, we should also express our sincere condolences and compassion to all the members of the victims and the victims, and assure them that, as parliamentarians, as representatives of the people, we will do everything we can to alleviate not only the material distress – we cannot alleviate human suffering – but also the backgrounds that have led to this tragic unhappiness. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the responsibility of this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, we also have the responsibility to debate and clarify the political backgrounds and the political responsibility. Minister! To your report: It is clear why you have not been able – the copyist has apparently not been invented in your ministry – to present this report to all Members in writing, that is, not so that we cannot read this scandal which you have destroyed in your report in black and white. Minister! What does this report say? . We would have expected you to find a word of regret about your inability to deal with this accident and that you would have brought a word of regret to us about the spectacle that you had previously executed. Today, you're trying to beautify all of this. Federal Minister! What happened yesterday, just before the "Time in Picture 1", quite "at random"? – You have literally said that you were informed at 7.15 p.m. about documents that prove the black buildings – you have literally said "black buildings". You would not have known before, nor would the Mountain Authority have known before, and the plans would not have been available. – Literally quoted by Mr Farnleitner on the programme "Time in Picture". You've also confirmed that. Whoever has endured to follow the third message of the ORF, the "Time in Figure 3", has suddenly been presented by a responsible authority of the Bergbehörde. It could then be heard that the above-mentioned tunnels, the 1a disk, were very likely recorded in the plans, that there was an approval of these tunnels and that one should be very careful to call these buildings already as the cause of this pit accident, which you, Mr Minister, have done without tax immediately in the public. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He didn't say that!]] Furthermore, as in this debate, you have hidden behind the laws, you have hidden behind any lack of information and faults of the company. And You have finally cleaned yourself off to your authority and to the staff of your authority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Stay with the truth!]] Federal Minister! They have once again consciously said the untruth, especially to the public and the interested parties in Lassing. The facts are available. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The facts are available, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You should finally start from this party-tactic procedure, necessarily to stand behind a minister who is responsible for serious crimes. That would be interesting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Lively protest at the ÖVP.]] Once you have a people's representative and not a government and a minister's assistant! That would be your responsibility in this case. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Brinek and Dr. Maitz.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! ==References== March... [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner speaks with the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Can the Minister of Economic Affairs be listened to?- Oh, my God!]] I can already imagine that you now need inflections of the ÖVP Clubman, but maybe you listen once and then take a position on these things. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website This tunnel, the decomposition in this disc 1A, has been approved, two days later, on 13 March. By letter of 20 March 1996 by your authority. So this tunnel is not a black construction, as you said yesterday, but it has taken place in it an approved demolition. This tunnel has been approved. This tunnel has also been included in the 1996 operating plans. And it is true, Mr Federal Minister, that, after the notification had expired in March 1997, the company did not inform its mountain authority of the further degradation in 1997, but this has nothing to do with this accident. This also has nothing to do with the evaluation of this tunnel, because the mountain authority has clearly stated that it has complied with the directives and that all the conditions have been fulfilled. It would have required only an oral advertisement before the mountain authority, then of course and quickly an approval would have been granted for this further expansion. Federal Minister! You have taken this fact, which was known and which has nothing to do with this accident in the current state of knowledge, in order to start a distraction maneuver on the back of your officials just before today's parliamentary debate, and you have deliberately told the public the untruth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This clearly shows how you have dealt with this accident and the related processes and are still dealing with it. Even in your report today, there are no real alternatives, no concrete measures and proposals to respond to the then disaster management, to this mismanagement. It is also not new that there are problems of this kind in Austria. For twelve years, since Chernobyl's disaster, it has been discussed that there is no proper disaster and crisis management in Austria. There was a supposed reform at the time, at the time the Chancellor himself established a coordination competence in the event of disasters and crises. For twelve years, there has been this reform, these measures only exist on paper! – Where was the Federal Chancellor with his coordination expertise in the case of disaster and in the case of crisis? Was that not a disaster, Mr. Minister of Economics?- Oh, my God! Was this really a limited pit accident, as you have said, which can happen every day, when you should watch from the outside, how the company manages, in which the Mountain Authority does not even have the power to perform barriers, an accident in which the Mountain Authority has a financial pouvoir of 5 000 s and in which you, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, are giving good tips from the outside, but are not even able to create clear skills to deal with this accident, for example, a leader?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! You yourself have admitted today that after the accident you had passed five days during which the miners were dead or alive – we don't know today, at least Hainzl lived – under day, before you finally put an end to this chaos and determined a leader! Minister! They themselves spoke in a first report of coordination failures, of unclear leadership structures, of problems in the interaction of the deployment teams and of problems in media care. Minister for Economic Affairs! Who is politically responsible? – You cannot say that the Mountain Authority has nothing to do with you at all, that such a pit accident has nothing at all to do with you and that others have to decide on it. Your political responsibility, you say, defines yourself and would be determined by how you will continue in this matter. Minister for Economic Affairs! What have you actually done? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I'm telling you in the clearest sense: We do not need ministers and politicians hiding behind their authorities and officials! We also do not need ministers hiding behind those companies that should control them! Nor do we need ministers who misinformed the population, but we need politicians who bear responsibility, have competence, make decisions, and, if necessary, implement them quickly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the media work, as you yourself have said, there have been problems. Now you were, Mr. Minister, but even on the spot. You even brought your press representative who could organize the pictures for you so that you could only get there quite well over the media rounds. You have staged a play there, but you were not ready to designate your press representative, who is certainly an expert in this field, to take care of an orderly press and media work there, so that statements like those that are all dead could not have happened. You weren't able to do that! You cannot blame the miners and the forces for this. These people are not media professionals and have not learned to deal with them properly. But you would have had the responsibility to intervene in good time instead of getting back to your press experts after your comments were in the media box. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They should also consider what measures should be taken in the future to ensure that the appropriate drill device does not have to be obtained via winding paths and paths, and it is not necessary to request special cameras via public calls. It should not be noted in the future that the public authorities in Austria will be locked up on Friday afternoon and the crisis management of the bureaucrats will be postponed to the next Monday. That's really essential! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! Your donations were also indispensable in this conflict-rich situation. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Yours!]] Their statements were scandalous and have clearly shown how you deal with this disaster. What did you not say? You too have declared all eleven miners dead. They have literally replied to allegations that in the past we had had too few accidents to set up appropriate crisis management. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There's no such thing!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the biggest!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you wish yourself more accidents of this kind? Does something have to happen in this country so that something happens?- Oh, my God! – These are scandalous statements! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You also said the business is going on. Lassing has just come to your job. You have then said cynically that you could insure one, namely that it will not be checked whether the laws on working time have been complied with in the rescue measures. – Thank you for your comments! This shows, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, that you, as we have often seen, lack the feeling of your office and, above all, of people, because otherwise you know that you cannot react to such things with such a cold, but that you must work to solve all the problems immediately and quickly, and that you must also admit that you have made mistakes yourself but then have the consequences to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kämmerer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Mr. Scheibner!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Politspectacle!]] But you're not alone with your attitude. The Federal Chancellor has also assisted you with valuable donations of words. He said before the forces – as the most important demand of him – that they should only be informed quite quickly when there are news. When Hainzl was saved, he declared euphoric in public: "We saved him!" – We, the Federal Chancellor. But I have not heard from the Federal Chancellor before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The Federal Chancellor, as I have said, would have had the coordination competence in the protection of disasters. I have not heard, however, that, as it was foreseeable, the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to coordinate this, he has said that he will assume responsibility. [[Abg. Huber: Read our Constitution!]] He could have said: "I press the button, declare this disaster a disaster, and thus put crisis management in place in the Federal Chancellery." . But we have not heard from the Federal Chancellor. He flew in by helicopter and then, when there was a success to mention, said: "We saved him!" Ladies and gentlemen! Then he said something that is really to be questioned. What did he mean by that? – He said the rescue of Hainzl was a victory of humanity over the technocrats. I repeat: the victory of humanity over the technocrats. - Who did he mean by "technocrats"? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Self!]] Mr. Minister of Economics, did he mean you? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Workers!]] Did he mean himself? – I do not think he is capable of such self-criticism. He was more likely to mean those who have really helped on the ground who have been the true heroes in this disaster, the many helpers who have tried everything to save the miners until they were exhausted! He probably meant "technocrats." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You know he didn't mean it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These scandalous statements are also subject to political responsibility! Not you have taken out Hainzl, not you have tried everything there to save the miners, but it was those hundreds of helpers and the organizations that have done everything in their power day and night to bring the ruined salvation. And they have not deserved to be called like that, but we all, including our representatives, have to pay them our highest respect, thanks and recognition for this achievement, their civil courage and their commitment! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Barmüller.]] Of others who could also have claimed responsibility for themselves, nothing has been heard, for example, by Minister of the Interior Schlögl, responsible for civil protection, or by Minister of Defense Fassleven, in the area of the Federal Army. We have not heard any words from them, even today, on the question of how to remunerate the experiences of this disaster into improvements. It is not a question of withdrawing and hoping that this debate will end as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Then you didn't listen!]] In addition, you have found a "wonderful" compensation with the coalition partner, according to the motto: We leave you with Farnleitner, for which you let us have our Minister Prammer, who has also behaved very scandalously in the course of the beef scandal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the political practice in this country! For party-tactic reasons, a minister who has behaved scandalously and is unable to present proposals for improvement for the future will be made the wall. Because, Minister of Economic Affairs, what you have presented to us here and today as an insight into this accident cannot really be your serious. That can't be anything you've learned from it! Everything beautiful and necessary: Digitalization of plans, establishment of a university course and so on. Everything very good, wonderful. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, these are not the measures that we have expected from you and the Federal Government to finally resolve this deficit, because in Austria there is no effective disaster protection, that in reality such an accident, even greater, could happen every day again – and no one in such a case knew how to deal with this accident. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But then there will probably be a word from you again that just so little happens to us and that is why we are not prepared for such a thing. Ladies and gentlemen! What would happen, for example, in our country – and we should also consider this today – if there were to be a great storm disaster in us, as was the case in Germany a few years ago? We are always discussing border nuclear power plants, discussing what would happen if an accident were to happen in Mochovce. No one from the population, not even we representatives of the people, nor you from the authorities – we have seen that now – knows how to deal with such disasters and crises. I just remember that after the accident in Chernobyl, 1986, one was not even able or willing to inform the people about irradiated milk, so as not to be 'additional fears', according to the statement of an official of the Federal Chancellery. This is your policy: to give impoverished, impoverished, only no information – and to go through it as far as possible. The health threat to the population is not your concern. That's your policy, Minister of State! It would now be necessary to take action, uniformly and throughout the Federal Government, to set up a suitable civil protection organisation once, in order to have disaster plans that are being practised and that really work. A proper and effective distribution of competence should be established in this context, and a clear competence situation should also be created in the field of civil protection. At present, there is on the one hand the German army, which has the necessary training and also the necessary structures. In the case of Lassing, we have seen – Mr Maitz, that would be a task for you to ensure that these opportunities are created in connection with the disaster service – that the use of the federal army works in principle, because there are clear structures of competence and clear command structures in the army. What does not work, however, ladies and gentlemen, is the use of modern equipment that would simply be necessary to deal with such disasters. This device is not available, but you have not yet found yourself ready to end this deficit. We're discussing rescue operations, but we don't have helicopters. We discuss – even in Lassing this was a topic – that we need heavy pioneer equipment, but you can't do it. We are discussing the fact that there is no comprehensive civil protection, but you are not prepared to come closer to our proposals. For example, we said: Let us turn civil service into a real civil and civil protection service! – At present, the Minister of the Interior does not know where to use the civilians, and on the other hand, there are these shortcomings. There should be training of large parts of the population in terms of civil and civil protection – and this should be done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: He doesn't know what he's talking about!]] Farewell Finally, you will be getting rid of your party political structures! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do something for the population and not just for your party program, for your parties and your minister! That would be necessary! These are the things to be addressed here. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion. This government or the Minister of Economic Affairs has shown that he is unable to solve these problems. That is why we demand that in a committee of inquiry really light be brought into the darkness of this scandal, that at last consequences will be drawn and it will be possible with other people – with these will not be possible! – the consequences of this disaster and improvements in the field of civil protection and civil protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7544	Mr Kröll is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7565	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, If I am from this place today to the painful Lassinger pit accident of 17th. In July of this year, as an Ennstal MP, I would like to speak primarily of my participation and compassion for the hard-tested families who mourn for their husbands, fathers, their sons and their brothers. The impact is great – and it has certainly not become smaller since the latest findings announced yesterday. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ten men remain shed in the Lassinger Talkum mine of the Naintsch company, and I allow myself to read their names: Rudi Eckhardt, Manfred Hillbrand, Andreas Matlschweiger, Helmut Ploderer, Hermann Pölzl, Manfred Rohrer, Ing. Josef Schöggl, the pump specialist from Semmering, Leonhard Schupfer, Harald Zechner and Manfred Zeiser. Hope for a successful salvation was fulfilled only once, on Sunday, 26th. July, succeeded in storing Georg Hainzl alive. One spoke at the time and today speaks of the "Wunder von Lassing". The participation in all of Austria and beyond was large from the beginning, and it continues unabated to this day. Perhaps our wife's head of state, Klasnic, in short words expressed our grief, compassion and shock, as She said on the spot: A country is crying. In addition to the families concerned, all of our compassion applies in particular to the whole local community, the local community. Mr. Mayor Bernhard Zeiser is among us today. [[The speaker looked up in greeting to the gallery, from where Mr. Mayor Zeiser followed the debate.]] – Our compassion applies to all those who bear responsibility there, as well as to the whole community in this beautiful municipality of Lassing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Before I refer to the recent findings about this dramatic pit accident of Lassing, I allow myself to point out the extensive relief and rescue measures of the Voluntary Fire Department, the Red Cross, the Gendarmerie and the Federal Army. I would particularly like to thank the auxiliary teams for their really huge commitment, from which I was very often able to convince myself directly on the spot. But also all other rescue teams – whether they came from Austria or from neighbouring countries – are to be thanked. They all gave their best in the race for the lives of these miners! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the SPÖ representatives, as well as of the Agg. May. Peter.]] Rapid and effective help – which has already been addressed – came from the state of Styria, the federal government and many fellow citizens and companies. In concrete terms, I would like to address those measures which the country, the municipalities, the federal government and the private have first and foremost set up for the family itself. In addition, these structural conditions and measures were also addressed by which the municipality of Lassing could or could restore roads, roads, canals, water lines, sunken or damaged houses. Of particular importance, however, is the commitment of Federal Minister Farnleitner, the German Chancellor Mag, for the members and for the whole local community. Climate and the entire Federal Government were supported: that the recovery of the shed buddy is financially secured and everything is done for its recovery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As praiseworthy I would also like to mention the enormous commitment and assistance of the parish priest Paul Scheichenberger, who returned from his foreign leave immediately to be with his affected, severely tested parishioners. Many social workers and professionals have also provided effective assistance in the care of people in Lassing. Mayor Bernhard Zeiser and his vice-bourgeois have also made appropriate efforts to support the local people, have stood by the people concerned and have offered coordinating assistance where they could only do so. I believe that the whole community under the leadership of the mayor deserves not only our compassion but also the recognition of how they have mastered these difficult weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As particularly helpful and comforting for the family in their great pain and for the community, it is likely that the rapid and often presence of our "landesmutter" Waltraud Klasnic can be appreciated. Both their human nature and their decision-making capacity in difficult situations and their rapid assistance have certainly been holding the families under trial. So she was already on the first night, i.e. from 17 to 18th. July, with the families concerned, also later, when Georg Hainzl was able to be bailed, and during all the important coordination talks in the municipal office, it was about acting unbureaucratically and quickly to show people assistance and warmth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to the great suffering of those concerned, the rescue of Georg Hainzl, the enormous willingness of the population and the forces to help, and the rapid, rapid and competent assistance from the official side, whether country or federal, also demonstrated that there are shortcomings and weaknesses. This made these visible. And already the report by Mr Farnleitner to the Federal Government and Parliament shows that there were many criticisms. This was also clear from today's report by Mr Farnleitner. It is now about fully and quickly clarifying the allegations that have been made since last night. As his political responsibility, I consider that Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner has done everything – and will do – to clarify the pit accident and to draw the corresponding consequences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, I also hope that the expected aid, as planned, will come to the attention of those concerned quickly and at the promised level. Ladies and gentlemen! If one speaks here of resignation, of investigation committee and of political responsibility, then it must be noted that Minister Farnleitner made today's declaration on his own initiative and on his own initiative and on the first possible occasion informed Parliament, without having been forced to do so by means of requests or requests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This led Mr Farnleitner as Head of Division himself to the lead of the investigations. With his activity he has found out the many rumors, because only facts can have consequences, only facts can clarify responsibilities. Farnleitner has done everything to make facts out of rumors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister Farnleitner, the Supreme Mountain Authority, the Procuratorate, the Courts and the International Commission already appointed will have to deal with the facts. Was there an unauthorised mining? – If so, who of the company of the mining operator is responsible for this? Has the Mountain Authority known of this unauthorised degradation and tolerated it unlawfully? Should it have known and been obliged to discontinue this unauthorised decommissioning in the course of compulsory activity? Was there any criminal offences in this context? – There are many questions with large question marks. These questions must be clarified. [[Abg. Smolle: What is against a committee of inquiry?]] The operator and non-minister Farnleitner shall be responsible for the unauthorised destruction if it is proven. Whether there was an error with the Bergbehörde, the investigation of the courts and the international Commission will show. A political responsibility could then exist if Federal Minister Farnleitner had become sumptuous, had not acted immediately or deliberately committed wrong actions. [[Abg. Wabl: Why are you against an investigation committee?]] – I will come back to your statement, Mr Wabl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's report by the Minister shows that he has acted immediately and consistently, that he has collected the information which has been followed by popular opinion, has collected suspicions against a legitimate degradation, and has immediately forwarded to the public prosecutor's office, as it has been heard in a rule of law, and has also informed Parliament and the public. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: How? How? I don't have a report yet!]] We want Mr Farnleitner to be the head of the office and not an office, because he guarantees that those responsible will be examined and informed, that they will be held accountable and brought to the authorities, that the Lassingers and the whole valley will be helped and that the necessary consequences of a legal nature for the future will be drawn. Any errors must be stopped immediately by means of legal measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister therefore has our support because he deserves it and has acted immediately and in a coherent manner. The courts, prosecutors and international commissions must not be prejudiced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We expect Mr Farnleitner to continue to inform Parliament immediately and regularly about the results of the investigation and, as today, to present his conclusions. [[Abg. Smolle: There is also a political responsibility in addition to criminal responsibility!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In view of this and further experience, a number of necessary consequences and measures have to be taken which have already been addressed. I would like to mention and underline some of them.The objective examination was carried out by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr Dipl.-Ing. [[Abg. Wabl: If the chole no longer defends, the claw with the fernleitner is at the end!]] Eggehard Rother from the European Commission, Directorate 5 E4, responsible for safety, health and also for the interests of mining, and we are expecting first results shortly. [[Abg. May. Peter: The European Commission is examining political responsibility in Austria! Great!]] Ladies and gentlemen! An internal examination, which was also mentioned in the report, is necessary, and all the recognizable and new facts have been forwarded to the public prosecutor's office. Furthermore, a comprehensive digitization of all mine plans – not only the Lassing plans, but all mine plans – is planned for all mines, which is an exact measure from the findings of Lassing. Furthermore, the creation of a mine plan card and the creation of a comprehensive map of experts and devices should not be underestimated if one knows at a decisive hour who has what to store, where the state of the art lies and who has the know-how to use the devices as best as possible. This is not possible in the confusion and the distress of an accident. This includes aid framework conditions, and this is the purpose of this comprehensive cartel. Strengthened controlling by the authorities – of course, this will be done – improved safety for miners, for example by wearing chips – all these are measures that are proposed and specifically mentioned by the Minister in his catalogue of measures. Furthermore, a course for crisis management at the Montan University of Leoben with Professor Dr. Wagner under the participation of foreign experts, new developments to improve the safety of our mines, the establishment of a mobile deployment force with superior crisis management and with trained press speakers. [[Abg. Wabl: press speaker? To hide or to inform?]] That too is a realization of this situation. It has already been discussed about the mountain law novels. In this context, it must be pointed out that there have been long negotiations in this respect and that Lassing hopefully contributes to the fact that this House will, in the next few weeks, adopt a new law in which people, communities and the arrants will also have a decisive role to play. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! These and other measures are to be taken from the findings of Lassing in order to increase the safety of miners in the future and to respond to pit disasters more efficiently and successfully, as ever to accidents and disasters in general. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl]] [[Abg. Wabl: For decades you have...!]] Mr Wabl! The people at home are not interested in the political hack, but – listen to me! – the Lassingers expect the following from us: Store our cast men! Clarify us about the operations in the mine! Do everything so that such an accident can be prevented at human discretion! "No political Hickhack on the back of families affected," even says Franz Reiter, the works councilman. "Let's get to rest, but do everything!", that is required. President Kletil said in the hour of consolation: All of Austria has responsibility for the family and for Lassing. – As announced, the results of the Commission of Inquiry will be available soon. [[Abg. Wabl: The Holiness...!]] The opposition already wants to anticipate all the findings. Mrs Petrovic of the Greens, Mr Barmüller of the Liberals or Mr Scheibner of the Liberals, they all call for the parliamentary investigation and the resignation of the Minister. This certainly does not serve the families in Lassing. Do not use the pain and suffering of the relatives for transparent other motives of party politics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This house and the entire population should take seriously the admonition word of St. John Weber. ==References== September at the village square of Lassing: "There's nothing to see here." – Some people already wanted to organize a trip there, win an attraction for tourism. There, however, reverence is more important than questions, rest more important than noise. There the tiresome peace is fraught with curiosity. However, the families and the congregation have an extensive, honest, and truthful Enlightenment, and after that the corresponding conclusions will be met. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's exactly what we're talking about.]] High house! We should take this very seriously. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the person concerned is more served than with a transparent, small-carated hack. We're responsible for everyone. We bear this responsibility in common, but not because of a small hack of party politics, but in the affectedness, in the compassion, in the willingness to help, in honesty and later in the consequence of what will come out of the investigations. [[Abg. Scheibner: Honesty!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7877	Mr Kröll has read a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported and which has been put in place on a business basis; it is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e7902	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree with Mr Kröll when he says that it is time to finally eliminate the rightfulness of the locals, which is laid down in the mountain law, in this House. However, it is also to be said, Mr Kröll, that you were with your vote, who decided to do so in this House. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The Liberals also have no question of expressing our condolences to the members of those who have been shed in this mine and of our commitment to doing what is necessary in order to avoid such accidents in the future, Mr Kröll, Mr Kröll. However, we have not applauded the report of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, because we feel that the man who could have prevented this from whose task it would have been to prevent such an accident, to stand down today and to shed crocodile tears. We feel that this is inappropriate. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Shame!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I say the following to you: He should stop washing his hands in innocence in public, for he is not innocent. I'm going to prove this to you today. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is also the following, ladies and gentlemen: The Federal Minister started yesterday evening to mix matters and legal issues. It is a legal question whether the decomposition in Lassing was permitted in that tunnel, which was supposed to have appeared yesterday for the first time, or not. It is, however, a matter of when this tunnel was known to the Bergbehörde, and he was known all the time – the Federal Minister himself said so. Now I'm asking: Why has this not been said from the beginning, Mr Deputies' Head? It is also clear that the Procuratorate Leoben, who has determined against the unknown, obviously was not in possession of those plans which were supposed to have been submitted to the Minister of State, as he stressed today, only yesterday. They see that justice in these matters is also being found to be very lax. If you think that the Federal Minister responsible, together with the mountain authorities responsible, should, together with the company responsible, clarify this accident, I will tell you, even in the Lucona case, that the judicial authorities have established their investigations. But the political dimension behind this would never have been the result of a judicial procedure, but only of a committee of inquiry in this House. That is why we demand such a vehementer than yesterday. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Deputies! I listened very closely to the Federal Minister because he preferred not to pass the report on. He has demonstrated his kind of information since the beginning of the accident. His emphasis was always: Yesterday I first learned about it, yesterday after 19 o'clock I was informed, yesterday I saw the plans for the first time. So that means he got the evidence in his hand last night. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a very important question when the individual facts were on the table. It must also be pointed out that the report by the Federal Minister of Finance clearly begins after the Lassing accident. He has not told anyone, not the Federal Government, how this accident has happened, what has already been said by the Mountain Authority. He has tried to throw fog with a report that focuses on the time after the accident. That, Mr Federal Minister, is just like Your speech here today, nothing but a pitiful attempt to save your political skin. No more and no less is what you offered here. But we will not allow it to be done simply by the government parties because of the pressing facts – I will quote some of them for example. You may reject a committee of inquiry today, but you will be responsible. You will have to answer why you have designed the Berggesetz with your votes against the votes of the opposition in such a way that an agrarians are rightless in this procedure. The Federal Minister should not act as if he did not know that the Bergbehörde in his ministry is his own clique. It's known! If it were the case that by the authorities, by the mountain authorities, only and exclusively by Mr Farnleitner, Mr Farnleitner, I would like to stress: only and exclusively! – I wonder why there is no suspension to this day. None of those responsible in this context has been suspended by the Federal Minister. I mean, he didn't suspend these people because he knows that he can't really stand them, because he has no insight at all there and because he was unable to exercise control of them, but to whom he is called by law and by constitution. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mrs Schmidt has already said it today: In the "Morgenjournal" Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima has made clear how far he goes to Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner. For climate has asked whether he already had the impression in the first report of Farnleitner that something could be concealed: "It was the way of presenting itself to one-sided" - that is to say, the report of the Federal Minister - "I insisted that the government should not identify itself with the first report and not agree with it." In fact, in his report to the Federal Government, the Federal Minister no longer gained the confidence of the entire Federal Government. This is what APA writes today, at 8.11 a.m., in its report on and based on the "Morgenjournal". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Member's head! I know it may seem inappropriate to you that the opposition with such vehemence insists that the political backgrounds are listed here. You say you want to hear facts. You can also have these facts. The first fact to be clarified is the following: There is only one person who is entitled and responsible for controlling the mountain authorities, and that is Mr Farnleitner. No other minister can do that, it's his responsibility, and he apparently hasn't done it for years. [[Abg. Grossruck: He's not a minister at all for that long!]] – He has not done so for years, deputies! Wait, deputies! In this case, the Minister of State is following the motto: I'm just admitting what you can prove to me. – And only if you can prove something to him, he also consents to it publicly. He conceals everything else in his first report, and he is hiding it today. In all matters of legal relevance, he has made it clear, both in the report and today in his statement, that he really believes that the problems arising from it must now be solved by him. What far-reaching view is that? – A captain who drives the ship on the ground and returns in the lifeboat says: I do not give my captain's patent here, because now I know how to do it, and I want to do better with the next ship I want. Don't you notice what cynicism is behind that? – And you from the ÖVP still support it! You're supporting this here in the house! You, Mr Kröll, as a Member of the Styrian Parliament, from this area, Mr Bundesminister's wall – make the wall to distract you from his responsibility. I also have in mind what has been said in Mrs. Liesl Matlschweiger's programme on the matter and Mrs. Zeiser's. You said: "We want justice. We want those responsible to be called." [[Call the ÖVP: We too!]] - Yes, and there's a responsible one. There is one of those responsible, and you do not want this House to carry out its constitutional task of carrying out the parliamentary control of the government. That's the crux on the thing. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Kröll! It says in this report that the mud masses were on the move when the ten saviors were sent down. It is also stated in the report that as long as the mud masses are in motion, they are an incalculable risk. – To send ten people under an incalculable risk and under the eyes of the mountain authority into a pit is negligent and even negligent in the criminal sense. That must be said clearly once! That is what the Minister himself writes in his report. Didn't you read it? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: And what does this have to do with his responsibility?]] This has to do with his responsibility, as it has been for three weeks – I emphasize: for three weeks! – The mud has run into the mine in Lassing, Mr Kukacka! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There is a power manager for this!]] That's why you had to switch off the pumps. Three weeks before the accident, mud has already run into the pit. It was perfectly clear that when mud enters the pit that can only come from above. That's what every geologist tells you, that's what those people who have habilitation about Lassing tell you. We have also talked to them, and they say: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But no one told the Minister!]] "It was clear that this must come from above. There is danger in delay!" – But the Bergbehörde did not do anything, and the Federal Minister was Wurst because he had the Bergbehörde act as she wanted. He never looked at them. And that is the responsibility he has in this matter! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Why didn't you do anything?]] Deputies! Why didn't I do anything? - Because I'm not in this government! Stop it! - I've made myself aware of the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You knew! He didn't know!]] I say to you that Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, by Dr. Weber, has been sent down to this pit – like the ten others. The Mountain Authority was the one that accepted it. And the headmaster of the Bergbehörde is only Mr. Farnleitner. No other minister may interfere in his affairs under the Constitution. It has been so that ten people – three of them under shock – have been sent to this pit, and the mountain authorities have not prevented this. If that arrangement has already been made by the company, it does not help in this matter. The mountain authorities should have taken these people out, especially because Georg Hainzl, even before he was thrown out, telephoned up and said: "There is increasing water, there is increasing mud!" – They left the people down anyway. When the accident happened at noon, you have to secure the pit – I emphasize: not for the rescue of Georg Hainzl, but for the protection of the pit! – Ten people sent down, and the carpenter in Lassing was ordered to deliver wood. All this is obvious! People in Lassing know that too! At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an appeal: If you want justice in this matter, people will be in Lassing and then the political representatives of the people in Lassing will finally have to say what they know. You have to put clearly on the table what is still present in facts, which has not already appeared. They must not be intimidated by all who criticize the work in Lassing. I tell you this from your own experience – Mrs Petrovic will confirm it to you –: We also received a letter yesterday, which read: If we continue to "rest" on this matter, then we will hand it over to the courts. – I say to you: I want you to come! They should only come, because then we will just add more of how people have been put under pressure there. Why did you put the work behind a fence a year ago? Why did the Bergbehörde disregard predicaments, although for houses that are built there, there is the requirement that they should be built on a 30-centimetre thick concrete layer, why did one not listen to the arrainers who said: "With us, the windows leave! With us, the doorsticks leave! The glasses blaze in the cabinets when blown!"? - No one has listened to them. But today you stand out here and say: One must help them, and one must do this and that. - That's all right. But above all, one should have prevented this accident by listening to and responding to the people who live there instead of driving over what you did! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Something else is interesting, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger is now thank God. He has the union's report in his hands, and I know that Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has asked him not to put the facts contained in it on the table. And he's on the speaker's list as sixteenth, so that he just doesn't get into the direct transmission anymore. It is enormous that the trade unionists sitting here in the house have so far been silent about these things. It was the Minister of State who said: Well, what happened there, what prevented the union and so on! - And today you cover it. They cover it from political, coalitional calculation, and that is indisputable! I hope you will today... – Mr Nürnberger, you have the report in your hands, I know. [[Abg. Nuremberger: What are you making for allegations?]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: There is no trade union report!]] Well, now there's no union report. All right, it's all right. He will rise up and you will then also have to answer for such statements and for such a wall-making to a black minister. [[Abg. Nürnberger: I'm not walling!]] – But that’s where you see it: The social partners are a noodle, a dough. You don't care about people anymore. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Wait for me to say! Don't pre-condemn!]] They all pretend, ladies and gentlemen, that at the beginning of the nineties, when the demise under the valley, under the southern field, began, a technical director of the work has been cancelled, with the reason that he cannot take responsibility for it. It has been clear from all sides since 1987, since 1989, that there will be massive water problems under the valley floor – when you enter the valley floor, which has been the case in recent years. This has had nothing to do with rainfall. That had nothing to do with the stream. All of this is going to happen! But the groundwater body that lies in its mightiness there was a problem, and that was known to all. And yet there is nothing that has been done on this matter by the Mountain Authority to ensure that such an accident cannot happen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Farnleitner went to the offensive yesterday. He took the flight forward. But one thing is obvious: This does not serve to clarify, but only to limit damage. He said yesterday that he had learned about it at 7.15 p.m. and at 19.25 a.m. he had telephoned the Federal Chancellor. – At 7.33 he was turned on live in the "ZiB". He then hesitated a little when Mr. Broukal asked him since when he knew it. He took a little time to figure it out, and then he said: It wasn't until tonight that I first learned about it. Here, too, one can see that in the Lassing case, the Minister of State obviously only wants to admit what one can prove to him – even today in his statement to the House. I tell you that now sine ira et studio, I tell you this without anger and without jealousy: The Federal Minister said here today that he had been confronted for the first time yesterday evening with evidence that had confirmed an illegal degradation in the talk mining at the Naintsch mineral plants. I say to you from this pult: Minister! You're lying! With this statement you lie!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8159	Deputies! I'm asking you to hold back in your choice of words. I give you a call for order for the accusation of lies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8178	Of course, Mr President. But I name what the Federal Minister has done, as it really is. [[Call the ÖVP:No shame!]] I'll tell you something. In the "NEWS", which appeared yesterday, Berghauptmann deputy Zechling is already quoted with these accusations. The "NEWS" was to be received at 4 p.m. yesterday. And that – I asked you that, ladies and gentlemen – which is printed on pages 74 and 75 is printed on sheet 4, and the bow 4 goes into print on Monday. That is why "NEWS" already knew about this on Sunday, and the Federal Minister, as I have been told, also knew about this matter. He'll get the preview on Wednesday at lunch. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mostly, what's in the "NEWS" is not true!]] If it were to be so that anyone from the mountain authority that informed "NEWS" on Sunday would not have informed the Federal Minister, then it would have been appropriate to suspend this person yesterday. He has not done so because he knows he has no reason to do so because he already knew it on Sunday. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Maybe he didn't read it until Monday. But today he stands in front of the House and says that he only learned about it last night is the untruth! He knows too, ladies and gentlemen! - That's not a simple reason. [[Abg. Großruck: Why don't you tell us why he hadn't said anything for a week? Tell us a reason!]] – This is the untruth! The disinformation has taken place in this matter from the very beginning. And it was also the Federal Minister, who did nothing about it, but promoted it: He has supported them with his report and he has supported them today with his statement before this House. That is why I say to you from the Liberals: We call for a committee of inquiry. As you have agreed, Mr Federal Minister, that, contrary to your instructions, decisions have been issued by the Mountain Authority in other cases, but you will now proceed, I will tell you: The Committee of Inquiry is not only to be used in the case of Lassing, it must be used for the whole area of the Bergbehörde. But according to what you have provided here, Mr Federal Minister, the Liberals are convinced that you are no longer the ministers who have any information there. This can only be done by the courts as regards criminal responsibility. As far as political, administrative and administrative responsibilities are concerned, Parliament must do so, and I therefore also propose a resolution by the Liberals, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the only answer to a minister who, like Mr Farnleitner, is clearly responsible for his responsibilities, by not exercising control, by not exercising the supervision he had over the authorities, is clearly responsible for the accident in Lassing. And if the Social Democrats in this country believe that they still have to do the wall to the Minister of State, who is responsible for the death of ten miners, then I can only say to you: It has come a long way in this country with social democracy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8274	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller, who requested that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs be denied confidence in accordance with Article 74(1) B-VG, is sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiation. Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8299	Mr President. High house! It is not easy to accept the lie. I expressly say: Yesterday, the main team of the mountain Leoben received the work sheet from the farm from which we can see at which times – in which the various processing data – the famous works over 1A took place. First point. Second point: I have once again telephoned Leoben with the chief of the mountain and have been assured by the leader that nothing was known to them of the unauthorised destruction. If a member of the press has claimed the statements contained in the "NEWS", he will have to answer to a Disciplinary Commission – Mr Barmüller, Mr Barmüller, now listen! . as he can represent that he informs a medium of information but does not give the same message to the Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] If you still use this against me, I have to say that's incredible! I have said that the disciplinary measures will be taken. It can't be that I'm being beaten first because I'm standing in front of the mountain team and then being beaten, because I suddenly say it wasn't all right, which was made by different places, how it happened to me with Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Once again you did not listen! That's incredible!]] We will also have to talk about this. Because again: I do not deny everyone any information, but I do not object to the fact that I am not going to give things back properly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8340	The next speaker is Mr Eder. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8362	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Three have now been placed on the government bank. Ladies and gentlemen! For the disaster of Lassing to find the right words here and today, it is most likely not possible, especially since the suffering of those concerned can at most be understood by us. First of all, I think it must now be a matter of helping quickly and unbureaucratically. Allow me, on behalf of my group, but also on my own behalf, to express participation in this tragedy from this speaker's desk. This participation has taken place to a large extent nationally and internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow You also wish me, above all, to wish the saved Georg Hainzl from this point of view everything good and good, and to wish him the same thing that he can get away with the pain of this disaster as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put my thoughts in two parts: On the one hand, there are the assistance that has been provided, both human, technical and financial, and on the other hand, the criticism points that we take for granted and which we should try to clarify together, as well as all the questions that are open, must be resolved together. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I should also like to thank all the fellow citizens in Lassing who had to cope with this serious local disaster for their dealings with those who have helped, and also for helping with all the means available to them. This went so far as to bring drinks, food, cakes and so on to rescue teams in the first phase. Thank you so much for all the Lassingers and citizens from the surrounding area, who helped directly and spontaneously! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our thanks – I would also like to say this clearly here – also apply to all the rescue teams, the fire brigades, the Austrian mine fire brigades, also the pit firearms from Germany, the Austrian army, the German Bundeswehr, the Red Cross and the specialized companies who came and helped on the ground. They too are grateful to them for their rapid and unbureaucratic help! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner has said here that five days have passed – I repeat what you have said; apologise if I allow it, but I repeat your statement – until the aid has actually worked in coordination. [[Abg. Scheibner: He said that himself, the Minister!]] I can tell you that in the afternoon of this 17th, you can read it in the minutes. July, alarmed by the main-mountain team, the OMC drill crews have started and considered their activities at around 4pm – that is not so easy in such a situation – which drill equipment must be provided, which drill equipment is available and whether the technical equipment available in a company is sufficient for this operation. And it's not that easy to find out over a distance of 300 kilometers. Regardless of this distance, it was determined by telephone and fax how to help. And the Bergbehörde immediately commissioned a German company, namely the company Anger, which has the appropriate drill equipment available and is known to Mr Abraham from the OMV – he has coordinated the first calls – to come to Lassing and provide assistance. Mr Müller-Ruhe is one of the managing directors of this company. I can now tell you the following because we are always talking about poor management and lack of crisis management: Normally... – I also come to criticism points. [[Abg. Scheibner: The minister says it himself!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Let me say at least a few facts here. Usually it takes a period of one to two weeks – one to two weeks are the normal preparation time! – in order to be able to carry out such on-site drilling in this scale at all. Do you know how long it took in Lassing until the drill teams were at the drill point and were able to start drilling? – It took only 28 hours. And it had to be brought heavy drill from Kassel in Germany to Lassing, which was not so easy at all. It had to be brought along heavy drill from the OMV to Lassing. The drilling pipes had to be brought, the sink tanks had to be brought, the entire transitions, heavy-duty pliers, technical equipment, chemicals and so on. This is an extremely complex technical matter. It is not that you take a drill to your hand and drill a hole, but it is about a very complex area. In the same period, five lock wells have also been set on site by the OMV Proterra because these were the prerequisites to get the water situation under control at all. On this occasion, allow me to truly thank my friend and colleague Abraham for his commitment. He sits at the top of the gallery today and listens to this debate. [[Accompaniment with SPÖ and ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We are talking about working time today, ladies and gentlemen. Working time was no longer a problem at all, because there were individual drill engineers and drill workers on site in such a way that they had to be taken to the hospital before exhaustion and returned from the hospital to the workplace. So there was no more talk of working time and similar things, but it was absolutely only more about saving human life, and that was the central point of all these actions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After yesterday's information that a new situation has now been given, of course, there is no need for the 66th report in a wide range of areas. Council of Ministers, given by Minister Farnleitner. This report contained three main elements: first, the geological initial analysis, second, first comments on rescue measures in Lassing, and the cooperation of the local helpers and third, the necessary consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusions of the geological initial analysis must be taken into account, namely: Overall, the geologists of the Supreme Mountain Authority do not at present have any reliable information on whether this is a natural disaster or a disaster caused by the mining industry. After what I heard very surprised yesterday in the "Time in Picture 1" by the Federal Minister, which was then demonstrated in the further discussion and what was said today in the report of Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner, the question arises automatically for everyone who is concerned with it or even less concerned about whether it must have been known in certain circles before, how the whole thing has gone down there. It was said that in Lassing, black mining had been carried out. But in a mine it's not that simple, because you have to go with a lift, you have to go into tunnels, because workers have to get busy, because the climber has to know something, because the engineers have to know something. I can't imagine that in a village like Lassing, no man would know anything about it if it had actually been blackmailed, and that you're going to be surprised at it all at once. You have to say that too. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be clarified. That is why it is here, and we all need to get together in order to clarify the open questions that exist. [[Abg. Wabl: Why are you against an investigation committee? Just to cover the coalition partner, Mr. Khol!]] Mr Wabl, let me carry this out. The first point is that the experts must have the floor that, if necessary, the courts must speak and that the media and politicians must not condemn anyone. It is now about – and I rely on it – that a Commission led by Dr. Dipl.-Ing. Eggehard Rother from the European Commission, with those international experts who have been mentioned today in the report of the Minister, are supposed to have said. I expect a report to be presented to Parliament at the end of October/beginning of November. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That'll be a Persian! What do you think will come out of it?]] And if we have this report in Parliament, we can judge further political considerations and practices. As long as I don't know what I'm talking about, I won't judge. If you can, please do it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Then you haven't been informed yet!]] Now a few words on the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. It is always said by the Freedom Party that he would be the co-responsible, disaster protection lies in the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor. – Mr Scheibner! This is precisely regulated in the Federal Constitution: Civil protection is a matter for the countries, and therefore the national authorities and district authorities are reasonably responsible for it. A federal matter is given when a nuclear accident occurs. Then the Federal Chancellery is responsible. If a mountain accident occurs, then the Mountain Authority is in charge of the first instance and thus also the Federation. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Federal Chancellor can draw on the coordination competence!]] – Mr Scheibner! That is how it is organized, and on the other hand, you can't say anything, because that's what the Constitution says. We need to change the Constitution, and we will not do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me make a constructive proposal towards the Bergbehörde, which has also been discussed and under attack. Starting from the way this authority is organized, until the removal of the mountain authority was discussed. I think it would be reasonable for the mountain authorities to be relieved by taking away the competence for the entire loosening of rock, namely the gravel and gravel, and moving to the commercial authorities. In this way, the Bergbehörde would really be transferred only to the area for which it is actually responsible in the core area, namely for classical mining. If we could agree on this, then the communities would also be very satisfied, because they would then again have a corresponding party position and participation in the land-dwelling of the entire gravel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it would be a good thing if we could also use this opportunity to relieve the mountain authorities in this form. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8500	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8521	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Farnleitner, you have made a political scandal out of a very difficult, human and politically difficult matter today. Federal Minister! No one has accused you of being criminally responsible in any form. We don't want to hope for that. Federal Minister! It is also not a matter of disciplinary responsibility. I thought to this day you're the head of that authority. Now teach us a better one today. They want to say that it was only about criminal law and disciplinary law. You admit, in a report to Parliament itself, that you are no longer the head of this authority. In terms of mountain law – and you know that many mayors stand today with their long-standing protests on the Ballhausplatz – giving instructions – how problematic it is will still be to discuss – that no more permits may be granted according to the old legal situation. And then write to Parliament, against this instruction your own authority has said in a newsletter, no, it will continue to be approved! Federal Minister! Who's the head of the authority? Who are you supposed to be responsible for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Mr Khol! It continues to examine this authority in Lassing. The ball has been returned to this company by the Minister – a minister who is apparently not heard in his own home! And this, Mr Khol, is political responsibility, and this is about it. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] So far, I've doubted whether it's tough inability or kumpanei, packaging. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: It's only Petrovic!]] My presumption is getting stronger and stronger in the second direction. But both – whether it is rigid inability, lack of enforcement in your own home or Kumpanei – are part of a political responsibility that you – and only you! – hits. Federal Minister! I will clearly tell you why your report today is clearly wrong, misleading and distorting. First point: It is not true that you were only informed someday in the afternoon, in the evening. I've got you on the 8th. September sent a fax. I have also telephoned with your office and asked intrusively to take these warnings seriously, with the clarification of the black reduction at level 1A with the unfulfilled stables. I also told your office that I saw these documents. What happened then? – The people who dared to thank God had the courage to say that systematically put pressure on them to send them letters of attorneys. I also received such a letter. ==References== September I informed you, but I did not get an answer from you, but one from the lawyer of Naintsch Mineralwerke GmbH, from September 9. September – a complaint threat. That was a very clear answer to the question on which side the authority stands. Second point: They said that it would only be possible to find out who knew the authority when. – Minister Farnleitner! They apparently don't even seem to watch the media again. The mountain captain said yesterday – I heard it myself – in the "Time in Picture 3", he did on 1st. This map was clearly, clearly and irrefutablely demonstrated on August 1 that this construction, the unauthorised further drive of Level 1A, is the cause of the disaster. [[the speaker shows a plan]] ==References== At least August it was known to the Bergbehörde – that is what the mountain captain himself says. He also based himself yesterday on the map 1378 of the incoming meter. That means your authority and so you knew! And, Minister, what was your reaction? – They have tried to reinvigorate the investigative authorities that thank God have not been intimidated. They said in an interview in the "profile" on the question: "What did you do?" literally – I quote –: "The only thing I did was intervene that the prosecutor's office and the criminal police did not hinder the recoverys that the latter did." - Quote. So it seems that the investigators were disabled, not those who had the task of creating precise mappings all the time. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The investigation can only take place after the recovery!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! The prosecutor has just announced in the "Mitagsjournal" that the knowledge of this robbery, this unauthorised destruction, has been available for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What has been the meaning of "longer time"?]] - Anyway, not only since last night. – Minister! Now don't try to let a small official jump over the blade when it comes to your responsibility as head of authority. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Third point: Minister Farnleitner! You have clearly misinformed Parliament. You have written in your report of 20. August wrote to the political parties in Parliament, among other things: Whether the clumsy system, any carousel spaces, the palpital disorder or old, unknown mountain cavities or the interaction of several such factors are responsible for the mud and water entry, the research work already started will show. - That's on 20th. August! ==References== August the Bergbehörde had the map 1378 and thus the knowledge. I also ask you: How did this report come about? Without the Mountain Authority? Why has a single circumstance apparently been ruled out, namely, recent human effects, such as predatory activity? – That’s a predicamental report, that’s a report from you, from your house! Who checked that? . This report is clearly wrong. He goes in a very specific direction because he deliberately pushes away what the people who have been put under pressure have always claimed. Minister, this is your responsibility! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! You haven't fully informed again today, because your information is going a lot, much further. They know exactly from the geologists, of the findings of those who have never been silent, that, apart from the fact that illegal destruction is a matter of impunity, it has also been carried out in a negligent and inexplicable manner that it would at least have been necessary to keep 15 to 20 metres apart between these layers in order to enable the formation of a vault. They know that this has not been observed. And you know that in the last three weeks before the accident, there has been a permanent flaw that the workers were especially busy with it. – A robbery building, an ever-hazardous robbery building, a robbery like a predator – in front of the Authority’s eyes! You know, Federal Minister, that Mr. Berghauptmann Wedrac has announced his coming to this company – by the way, a company owned by Rio Tinto; there will be a lot to talk about this group – each 14 days before. 14 days are a lot of time if you might want to give up a different appearance than the reality was there. Why did he do that? – That would be as if the police were warning and saying against controls of any criminals: Now we're coming! Federal Minister! This destruction has been carried out improperly – unlawfully anyway – because the disks have been disassembled, and like a sparsely stored pile of books, the whole thing has come into the slide. You know, Minister of State! I know you have the information! But you didn't say a word about it. When the complainant threats of the company Naintsch Mineralwerke have been sent out, you have signaled the informant with a word: "I stand behind you, I will not allow you to die!"? – These people have no longer known who to turn to! Mr. Federal Minister, this is your political responsibility! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Now to my perhaps most important point. Everyone has talked about what the victims need, what the people of Lassing now need. I also believe that it needs help, but it also needs a conclusion, a way of at least appreciating its relatives. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you again from the speaker's desk in all forms: The recovery works are deliberately towed away. There is still a cover-up interest there. Federal Minister! The pumps have been standing since mid-August. This is technically not necessary, it has not been stated. Every minute, water goes into this pit, and with every hour, it actually becomes more difficult to store the bad miners. And it is already heard that there is a strong interest in the authority in the fact that grass grows on the matter and that one can close that pit and explain it to the cemetery. Federal Minister! Why is the Naintsch company, which knows that it has a secret interest, now entrusted with this recovery work? Why has the geologist, who was already busy on behalf of the company with the accident of 1977, been ordered by the company again? Why is he now involved in the evaluation of this recovery work? Don't you think that this is an inconsistency with Geo-Consult? In view of this abundance of inconsistencies, do you not see a problem, Mr. Federal Minister? And one last, Minister of State. I know that you know that your authority has information, and so bitter is that – I have tried to communicate it to the Federal Government in other ways too; I have not succeeded – I have no other way of telling you this in public: You know, Mr Federal Minister, that very, very likely only three bad miners are in this conveyor basket and that seven miners had other orders and in other areas of the mine may have survived this second great accident for a long or at least some time. Mr. Federal Minister, you know that! I know that your authority knows, and I also know that the wall of silence will soon break. Federal Minister! I would really suggest to the two coalition parties: Talk again! Give the way for a real investigation! Do not let the backsliding of a very powerful group, which already has a lot on its conscience around the world, continue to be tried to prevent the Enlightenment! Instead, stand behind those who have always been involved in the Enlightenment! And since all the thanks have been said here, of course also thanks come from me to those who have helped spontaneously, indecently and voluntarily immediately. Many have prevented a major disaster during this first hour. You know the names, and I think you should really thank these people. However, I would like to thank Mrs Matlschweiger and Mrs Zeiser very much – and I would like to say this here because it is my personal concern – because, in the first phase of the accident, I would not have been absolutely convinced by the correctness of her arguments, I would certainly not have had the strength to follow up all these communications in this form. That is why – perhaps also in the interest of these courageous women of Lassing – the Federal Minister: Rethink your attitude! Take your political responsibility one last time and clear the way for an investigation!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8631	Mr Farnleitner, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8652	Mr President. High house! Very soon: I have focused precisely on the touching words of the two ladies, who have called Mrs Petrovic, in whom they have called for justice, in our internal meetings, and have said that we have to explain perfectly to the last. Well, I'm not the special agent personally. The investigations are under way in the Bergbehörde, in the Procuratorate, and they are running in the International Investigation Commission. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What is the subject of these investigations?]] We will have the results collected shortly and will have the consequences of it. Secondly, It's nice what I, as you put it to me, should know everything I need to know. I can only tell you: I know that the ministry does not mean that the Minister is omniscient, but he must also be able to rely on what his employees tell him. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Have you heard anything about ministerial responsibility?]] Third point: I am against the assumption that, because a letter or information was not answered directly, we would have asked the company of Naintsch to complain to Mrs Petrovic. There is no connection at all. Fourth point: According to the current mountain law as a ministry, we have no way of maintaining a permanent management of the farm. You may be blaming me in a few weeks for the fact that the takeover of this care was already illegal. This is not provided for in the mountain law. That too we will have to repair in every hurry. I can only assure you once again: It's given every point. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Relegated! Yes, that's right!]] We had another priority, Mrs Petrovic. The priority was to save without disturbance, as far as it was in our responsibility. I have spoken several times – and I admit this here – to those responsible, because I did not think it responsible to withdraw people from the rescue team in the rescue phase of Mr. Hainzl. I didn't think it was responsible for running documents. That's what I'm still standing for. Because I said, Nothing goes away from here, except life and the chance of survival! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8715	Mr Dr Schwimmer. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak now on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e8736	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In July 1998, they learned about Georg Hainzl's spilling, and even more than they had learned of the shock of the spilling of another ten people who had driven into the pit for the rescue of Georg Hainzl, all Austrians shuddered, and hoped to join the rescue of Georg Hainzl, and at the end, when after the three weeks the further search for the living was hopeless, they mourned. All of Austria agreed with these feelings. I do not think anyone who has had these feelings in these weeks has only the slightest spark of understanding that this human disaster is now the subject of an aggressive party political hack, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The shock that I had at the time and which I still have adds to the horror at some of today's discussions. Let me say an open word: It is also my parliamentary understanding that, as I say quite openly, even if I belong to the same party as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, all political groups are made available in the same way. Only sometimes has a mistake or a mistake also his good. Because, as a result of this mistake, all of Austria was able to witness today in front of the television screen that Mrs. Dr. Petrovic had previously described as false a report that she had not yet heard, because he had not yet been refunded, and which she had not had, according to her own statements, previously. That was unheard of! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, you admitted it yourself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: There are two reports!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: There are two reports!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Your open word is an open untruth!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] You have complained that you do not have the report, but you have called it wrong in the past. The spectators can judge this themselves. You've seen them and heard them, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Maybe you will notice that there are two reports!]] [[Prolonged calls to the Greens.]] After the argument of Mr Barmüller, who has really presented himself as a hateful better-knower here, who has resorted to mistaken insults, which have also led to the President's calling for an order, the same Barmüller wants to be judge, the same woman Petrovic, who knows so well what another knows, then wants to be the same judge in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: It's about political responsibility!]] Do you know what that is? – This is an inquisition court! The prosecutor who has made his judgment before is the judge at the same time. After the medieval inquisition there was the best in Stalinism. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And that's not what we're giving! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] People in Lassing need justice. Those affected need justice. They need an impartial investigation in the truest sense of the word. They don't need a show process in which those who already "know everything" and accuse themselves today can sit in the scene. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: If you do not tolerate any contradiction, you must abolish Parliament!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: It is about political responsibility!]] We don't need such a display process! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Aren't you ashamed?- Oh, my God!]] What people in Lassing deserve is that a truly impartial international investigative committee is investigating the causes, clarifying the causes, putting them on the table, and that, if criminal offences occur, public prosecutors and criminal courts make the appropriate decisions. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You can save your Persilschein commission!]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: I’m looking at what’s coming out of your international commission!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The criminal responsibility yes, but there are other responsibilities too!]] That is necessary, that is the justice that people in Lassing deserve, and we will take care of this justice! If you claim that you did not make any pre-conceptions, I would remind you of the following: Mrs Kammerlander, who is so happy to be in the middle of speeches, once cried out during the debate: "The Minister who caused this disaster!" [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Right, that's his responsibility!]] – Please, it’s not ridiculous at all! It's really no more ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It is very defying and defaming how you want to beat party-political capital out of a human tragedy with the cheapest means. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Much of what has come from your side in today's debate was not understandable. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You already understood it, just don't want to admit it!]] I did not understand Mr Scheibner when he sought refuge here to defend the illegal destruction on the disk 1A. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner, it is quite clear: The Minister's report – in the meantime, you also have it in writing; They have also heard him and as a subsequent speaker they have certainly listened closely – says quite clearly: On the 1A disc the reduction was authorised and approved on the basis of the 1995 application and in accordance with the 1996/97 plan. [[Abg. Scheibner: The mining authority has not approved anything! That was blackout!]] And in the next main business plan, this disc 1A was declared to be done, as mined. If subsequent measures have taken place there which do not appear in any approval, this is at least not approved and legally in order. And that's what the Minister said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Twenty-three times the mountain authority was there this year!]] The Minister has, of his own initiative, informed the public about this. It's not quite understandable for me to say something else: Without providing any facts, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic... – Deputy Barmüller, who is already crying in between, has always promised facts. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The political responsibility of Dr. Schwimmer will also be known to you!]] He has delivered us pre-conceptions, he has delivered us insults, but not a single fact. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: (keeping written documents in height) That's not true! Since the beginning of July it was known in Lassing! Three weeks before the accident!]] There are allegations about alleged rebuffs, but there is not a single fact for a cover-up. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Not at all! The report begins only after the accident, Mr. Schwimmer.]] And then Mrs Petrovic's minister is accused of having presented a very open, not beautifying report, which also says what was not right, in which it says that the authority has not only not followed, but has even counter-cared it. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Read when the report starts! After the accident!]] The Minister will monitor this and draw the corresponding consequences from it. This is his political responsibility. And something else about political responsibility: You know, perhaps Minister Farnleitner as the responsible Minister of Economic Affairs has not acted a hundred percent in accordance with the legal regulations when he took out the operational management and commissioned the Bergbehörde to take over the overburdened management of the company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] But he has done this, and he has my full approval and my full support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps the ministers Farnleitner and Edlinger have not acted a hundred percent in accordance with the budgetary rules when they have both agreed that recovery and rescue must not fail in money. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: It's not about money!]] This is their political responsibility, and they deserve our trust for it. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: What is this defense?]] I'll hold it again. It was admirable how in Lassing countless people voluntarily made themselves available spontaneously. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Because the incompetent authority didn't do anything!]] It is also admirable for me to see how the officials of the mountain authorities you have spoken of, when they heard of the accident, immediately appeared on the spot, as we now know – in the post we all failed very much – when they risked their own life in the pit. These officials had no economic interest, they had a human interest, a service interest in it, and entered the pit in order to help to find out: What can happen here to save the Georg Hainzl? [[Abg. May. Barmüller: It was clear from the outset that the recovery can only happen from the surface and not from the pit! That was not a human act, it was a pit protection!]] If the invasion had taken place four hours before, these officials of the mountain authorities would have been in the pit and would have been thrown away. They risked their lives! It is admirable what work has been done there. Although at the first moment everything was not all right if you made mistakes – not from the Bergbehörde, but from the side of the company – such as the fact that you took the media with you at the meetings – there are, of course, different opinions from experts; I do not need to explain this to you, you know, if you have already talked with experts about a difficult case; it is also good when different opinions are expressed – but then these errors have not caused anyone to get hurt by it, even if in the media the impression of chaos has arisen. What was necessary has happened – one has seen in the salvation of Georg Hainzl that this has been successful – what was necessary has been made available. I also have great admiration for the creativity that has been developed there. In a few days, the most complicated technical equipment and methods have been developed, such as the famous small floating camera or the printing chamber that has been developed there. I also think that the people who have used their creativity there are very grateful and admirable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has been ensured that help is provided unbureaucraticly and quickly – including financial assistance. It is certainly necessary that people in this difficult psychological distress at least know that the future of their children is assured that, for example, every child of an accident is safeguarded by education to the university. Perhaps you should consider a few more questions. For example, there are women who have not yet been married to the affected person and therefore do not have the same claims as a wife. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You prevented that in this house! You have scrambled many of the Liberals' requests in this regard!]] In this case of disaster, I think it is necessary to ensure that we find a fair balance so that these women can also come to their service. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we can truly thank all of our hearts – I know one with all the Austrians who have shuddered, hoped for, shared in, and mourned – for all those who have done their whole commitment, up to physical exhaustion, to help in Lassing and to save human lives. We can thank the political leaders for creating the framework for this. We can thank Minister Farnleitner and the Federal Government for ensuring that an impartial international investigation is carried out, and we will insist and ensure that this investigation is actually carried out with all the necessary resources. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Of those who concern themselves!]] I say again: We have nothing left for a show trial, in which Mr Barmüller is the prosecutor and judge at the same time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9201	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. The provisions on the actual correction are known: 2 minutes maximum speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9226	Mr President. Mr Schwimmer, in his speech, said that Mrs Dr Petrovic had made a prejudgment of the statement made by Mr Farnleitner today, calling this statement a non-truth and not the facts accordingly, at a time when she did not know this statement. In fact, I would like to say, Mr Swimmer, that you should be careful about this: Mr Petrovic did not make the statement in his mouth, but, clearly different, the report of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Farnleitner, which he returned to the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: No, to Parliament, you said!]] It has therefore rightly called this report by Mr Farnleitner false and inaccurate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9275	They were not personally addressed. According to the Rules of Procedure, this possibility would only be possible if you had been specifically addressed in person, especially in particular. That was not the case. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for any actual response to an actual response. Mr Schöggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9299	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, I am amazed at how many mining experts we have in this house, because what I have heard about professional discussions today exceeds my personal expectations for something essential. You will probably be able to carry out this expertise and perhaps even advertise the Montan University in this context. But I would first like to make a few comments on my previous speakers. Mr Kröll has praised the help given by politicians in the Lassing case in the highest tones. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious that politicians who are appointed to do so and who, of course, also have the means to do so can help. If they don't, they don't have a right to exist as politicians anyway. To praise in the highest tones is extremely unnecessary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The question of Mr Barmüller, who sent those ten people in, who bears the responsibility for it, I would like to answer with a comparison: If you are a fireman and know that a child is still locked in a burning vehicle and the tank could explode at any time, then you will try to save the child. I believe that everyone would try to save the child and risk his life for it. That's what these ten miners did. They, of course, wanted to save their workplace, with which they are very rooted, on the other hand to ensure the survival of their enclosed mountain comrade. In this case, polemics is really not in place, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that it is now very important that the Lassing region comes to rest, that the damage is corrected and that the wounds can be healed. I wish the mayor in his task of distributing the God's very abundant means and donations justly and fairly, a great success. I know that envy and disfavor, generated by money, can very easily lead to discord within the population, and we must definitely prevent that from happening. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When the accident broke in, experts who were not on site but who had learned about it via the radio or other media felt responsible and went to Lassing immediately. We know this from reports from the Mountain Authority. Only one has not actually been responsible, namely the Minister. I quote from the profile. Question to Minister Contributor: To what extent were you involved in the decisions taken on 17 November? July, the day of disaster? – Flyer: Not at all. It's a miner's accident. This is the responsibility of the company, as is the fact that another ten men went down. There is no intervention of the Ministry or the Mountain Head Team, which were only by chance on site. For me, there was nothing to order or intervene. There was no one there who called me and asked for anything. This report speaks for itself. The Minister responsible says: Actually, they should call me! – But they could not call because they had to contribute to the rescue there. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why it seems so important to me that those who have helped locally are the so-called technocrats who have worked until physical and psychological exhaustion and have tried to do the best, to express our thanks, for these are the true heroes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why did the rescue work at all? – This shows a political failure, because the rescue did not work because there would have been great disasters plans because the disaster report had been triggered because the Coordination Committee had met, but because of the expertise of local people, because of the knowledge of businesses, because of the equipment available and also because of the personal contacts that people have had on-site. That's the most important thing! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The watch flashes, but it would be a lot more to say – about the role of the media that has shuddered in the recovery of Hainzl. Although it was arranged to be darkened in order not to endanger his eyesight, the media disguised as fire fighters have irradiated him with headlamps, thus endangering his eyesight. It would be to talk about the many charlatans who have pushed themselves there. It would be to talk about the politicians who presented themselves there and tried to put themselves in the spotlight, such as the Golden Wing driver, the Harley Davidson driver, Klubobmann Flecker from the SPÖ, who is there in the leather wall, but could not help at all, and and and and. There were the abstract proposals, such as those that immediately fill the ping with demolition material from a nearby tunnel eruption. A lot of nonsense has been said and reported. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. Minister! Unfortunately, you have a personal problem. You judge quickly, you talk even faster, the point is more important to you than the content. Some examples of this: Quote: "I go into the day and am already grateful in the early days that something unexpected happens again. It's just fun." - "Kurier", 9. ==References== Or – another quote –: We can't wish for a few more accidents so we can learn: We also do not organize train accidents to check if the routes work. – In my opinion, these are loud unnecessary donations of words. Minister! Now take care of your officials. They announce a change in the right of the mountain, which you have so far prevented with your group – and some of these are involved in mining. That's just so much. It is necessary to create a modern commodity use law that ensures that the Austrian economy is supplied with raw materials. at the same time as safeguarding citizens' rights. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Minister! They said in an interview: I am a mistake about the quality of life in connection with the exercise of my ministry. Mr. Minister! Create You get more quality of life – and draw the consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9432	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Buder has now been reported to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9457	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is a report from the Federal Minister to the Council of Ministers, which includes eleven pages, which contains its present statement in this House 13 pages. One tries to explain something that cannot be explained or understood. Minister! You said in your report today that yesterday evening would have been the most difficult and difficult hour during your term of office. For me it was 17th. July when the accident happened in Lassing. A disaster has struck a 2000-soul village, a region, our country – a disaster that for us until the 17th century. It was unimaginable this year. I myself was at the end of April this year on a visit to this mine, in the Talkbergwerk Lassing. I must say that I felt safe down there, probably just as safe as those guys who work down there. A longtime employee told me after this accident: I didn't just work down there, but I felt so sure down there that I would have slept there too. Then, during the last sitting here in this House, the inconspicuous thing happened: Georg Hainzl was thrown and then ten men. The next day in the morning, I was at the place of unhappiness and met the father of Georg Hainzl, a man who was drawn by the worries, the uncertainty and the shock. I tried to give him courage because I was honestly convinced that his son would be saved. I met forces there, fire brigade, red cross, many volunteers, and I thanked them for their willingness to work. They were also members of those who were thrown under them, who attacked psychologically and physically naturally, but were willing and willing to help in the recovery. I would also like to thank you once again on this speaker's behalf today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, mistakes also occurred, there were some overeats, some of which were not coordinated. I am convinced, however, that everyone wanted to do his best. Afterwards, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to judge what else, what better, what should have been done first. On Saturday the Federal Chancellor and the Interior Minister came to Lassing for the first time, it was lunch. I had the impression that after a few telephone calls from the Federal Chancellor, the rescue measures got better into flow, and I thank him for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the head of state for the human assistance she has given to the family. At the same time, however, I would like to remind them of the promised support in improving infrastructure, in operating facilities in Lassing and in the Liezen district. Because we in the district of Liezen have the highest unemployment rate all over Styria. Ladies and gentlemen! As terrible as the media coverage for the Lassingers was in part, it was so important, because through it there was a wave of helpfulness of a financial kind for the afflicted relatives and those people who lost their home or home. Organisations, communities, individuals from Austria and abroad have generously donated. Each one of them also belongs to this pult with a warm thanks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Certainly some criticism is also appropriate. For example, experienced miners, people of practice, men who know the mountain, were not or were not sufficiently involved in the discussions. Their comradeship, their knowledge and their sense might have facilitated many things. There were men of technicians, the manager guard asked, not men of practice. Unfortunately, the miracle of Lassing, the rescue of Georg Hainzl, did not follow any more. Georg Hainzl's wounds of a mental and physical kind will hopefully heal, I wish him. He has an intact family and friends who will help and support him. A week ago, there was an hour of consolation in Lassing. Some Members said it should be a political-free hour of mourning. It was the Federal President, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, many ministers, the leaders of the Styrian state government and, of course, the representatives of the district. We were there because we felt, were saddened, shared the pain of the family, showed the families, the friends, the colleagues our grief and wanted to express to the workers that we knew that the cast men were valuable people in their families and also in the local community. Ladies and gentlemen! This trans-regional disaster cannot remove any committee of inquiry, no ministerial resignation. We in Parliament have been waiting for the report of the International Commission and those of the Public Prosecutor's Office. And we have to reform the mountain law. It is now necessary to secure the cast men as soon as possible, but no more mistakes can be made. Calls on the part of some politicians would certainly have been unnecessary. It was absolutely unfortunate, unfortunate, and insensitive, that some of your statements, Mr. Federal Minister, were also made. I am thinking, for example, of those when you said on TV that when you came to Lassing, you would have been amazed that in this company the administration was housed like in a beggar company and the scarf was three times better! – I was told in Lassing: The house, which the boys have at their disposal, was provided to them by the management, and the Knappenstube was so beautifully equipped with its own services and by its own initiative. I think you should be able to do that. We in Parliament now have to wait for the Commission's report and the public prosecutor's report and then, if we know what is in these two reports, to take the consequences. Of course we also have to reform the mountain law. I would like to close my debate with the words of the works council chairman Franz Reiter, who said in Lassing at the hour of consolation a week ago: Stay behind deep pain and inconsistency over what has happened. But it is not the right time for any debt allocation either. We can only hope that everything will be done so that such a disaster as it has met our colleagues can no longer be repeated, and if God wants to be prepared for it. For us to be better prepared, policy must be taken care of. Because we should learn from the events of Lassing. We should be prepared to make amendments, and I am holding to the motion for a resolution which has been tabled today and in which it says that it is necessary to clarify all the circumstances that have led to the disaster of Lassing and to take all the measures that will prevent such accidents in the future and ensure the best possible rescue in the event of an accident. We therefore welcome this motion for a resolution. – Thank you
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9549	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9570	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Like Mrs Beder, I am shocked by the fate that has struck people in this mining accident. In the same way, however, I am shocked by the failure of people, both in the company itself and in the mountain authority, because I do not think they have prevented a foreseeable accident. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am no less shocked by the political failure of the Members of the Coalition Party and their opinions, as they have, for example, been reflected in Mr Schwimmer's statements. In fact, he has explained to us that investigation committees are nothing but display processes. I ask you: What kind of understanding does swimmer have about parliamentarism?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How many committees of inquiry were you, Mr. Peter?! Have you seen Mr Wabl in a committee of inquiry?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) Then stand to your opinion and remove this facility! Get rid of her!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! The question of political responsibility can only be resolved in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: After the court!]] If you are unable to regulate the procedure of investigation committees in such a way as to achieve the desired goal of defining political responsibility, then you must return to the State of Stand, Mr Klubobmann Kohl. There was no parliament there that disturbed. There no one asked for political responsibility. At the time, there was a party that was "divine," and when mistakes happened, this party said: Yes, my God, there have been mistakes. We will do everything so that these mistakes do not happen again! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! There was, of course, no disturbing parliamentaryism at the time, and no members of the opposition who could ask the question: Is there, in addition to the objective responsibility which, of course, an international Commission can clarify, and in addition to the responsibility in the administration, also a political responsibility? – Federal Minister Farnleitner! That is the question we have to ask ourselves here. That is the question we can discuss. Mr Kröll! You have tabled a motion for a resolution which you want to clarify many questions. Why do you, as the elected Member of this House, who you have the control function in this House, and also with the government you support, not ask in a committee of inquiry the question of political responsibility? Is there not this category for you? Does it not exist, or is it not perceived from the beginning?- Oh, my God! – And with evangelism, the Social Democrats are at your side on this issue. Does something have to happen in Austria so that something happens? Isn't there a responsibility to do something in the past so that it doesn't happen? Lassing shows it: a bureaucratic inefficiency of the Bergbehörde (mountain authority), an insurmountain team and the lack of role of the mountain captain team as accompanying control, which entered the mine in Lassing 23 times in the first half of 1998. There must have been a reason why the people from the mountain authorities have tripled, quadrupled the controls, and yet they have not found what they have been looking for. Maybe they didn't want to find it because they knew what it was all about. But despite everything, they have not been able to catch a disaster that I believe was a foreseeable disaster, for which we need, not new regulations, but new responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Misservices will always exist. They will also be available in those administrative units which are being torn away from their professional careers, which have obviously made a lack of control, incitement with the consensus-makers, tolerance of black buildings, lack of disaster plans and unprepared crisis management. There was no doubt that there was no error in the company. You can call it Shareholder Value think, you can call it yield pressure – yield pressure at the expense of the people, the men who drove into the mountain. In any case, however, there was negligence and lack of caution. And it should have been revealed – and only that is the meaning of an authority – if this company obviously digs new fields out of income pressure and shareholder value interests, which are not safe. There's a responsibility for the Bergbehörde, Mr. Federal Minister! I know. You have 1,000, 5,000, 7,000 people in your ministry – I don't know how many. But this does not make you feel that you, Mr Federal Minister, are responsible for your employees. That is, if your employees pass out of service, that's what your ministry's miscarriage is. That's not to be separated. There is a third category of miscarriage that we are experiencing today, namely the misperformance of selective perception. I did not tell you, as did my colleague Barmüller, the untruth, Mr Federal Minister. I'm not going that far. But I believe that in this matter you are depressing political responsibility by saying, in a way: What do you want from me?- Oh, my God! I can't know everything my officials do! Federal Minister! As an entrepreneur, I'm a very small dwarf. I do not employ 8 000 or 2 000 people, but I am here today in Parliament, where I have the honour to stand now, responsible for what my employees are doing at this very second! This responsibility is indivisible for me as an entrepreneur, and as a minister you have a political responsibility! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore propose that you, Minister of State: If you are really convinced that you do not have any political responsibility, then you are pleading for a committee of inquiry to show it - only with regard to political responsibility, because it can only be clarified by Parliament - that it is really right what you say, that you are not taking political responsibility, and that it is wrong what the opposition says, namely that you are very well aware of the political responsibility. It should be in your interest to ask for a committee of inquiry! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I ask you: Are the reforms announced really up-to-date? Does the reason for the sad death of ten men require that reforms be thought of now? Hasn't there been a need for action for years? Federal Minister! Who is responsible for delaying these reforms, which have obviously been on the table for years? And where, in addition to the political and bureaucratic inertia, are the blockers and the preventers of real reforms? Lassing is a human tragedy, it is an economic fiasco, and above all a waterloo of the Austrian administration. Let me express my condolences to all the people who are affected. I feel with them!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9706	I would like to say to the resolution just read that it is not available to the Bureau but to another, with a different but similar text. There is the possibility that this will be clarified and that you will submit the request later. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Well, so san’s! Painful, embarrassing! So "precision" is the information!]] Mr Oellinger has also been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9739	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9754	Please apologize: This was a mistake on my part or perhaps a mistake in the computer system. Mr Drinkl was speaking as the next speaker. [[Abg. Oillingers: I like to clean up the place!]] – That’s very kind! Thank you. Mr Dr. Dr. Drinkl, I apologize. I give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9784	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing a report on an event that has deeply shaken all of Austria, and no one has raised this better than our wife's head of state Waltraud Klasnic than she meant: "A country is crying." Indeed, this disaster of Lassing means untold suffering for many families, even for a whole region. Our compassion applies to the relatives of the unfortunate. At the same time, we are pleased with the great spontaneous assistance from all parts of our country. In my district, at Rabenwald, there is a sister plant by Lassing, which offers 85 employees work and merit. And I am proud that within a few days in the parish of Anger, a place of not even 1,500 souls, an amount of 250 000 s could be collected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know that this financial aid cannot relieve suffering. It can, however, give the person concerned the feeling that they are not alone in their calamity. These words, Mrs Buder, also come from our wife's head of state, Klasnic, and I can assure you that the promise she has made on the spot will also be implemented, because it is her style and because she certainly does so. In the days following the accident, hundreds of people have helped in place. They worked until they collapsed, they gave her the last. Nevertheless, many had the impression that there was too little, there was a lack of coordination. I understand this impatience, especially among those who were afraid of a loving person. I also understand the displeasure and bitterness about some word or other that may have hurt in this situation. But the fact is, and this is clear from all the reports, that all those who were there have given their best, and thanked them very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since criticism has been expressed many times today, it should also be noted that there has been help from mental and physical circumstances. And I would also like to say: If operational management meetings are held under the presence of media representatives, that is certainly not conducive to the respective decision. I would ask you to learn from this for the future, especially what the media are doing. A little more restraint would certainly have been beneficial in this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When assessing the proceedings in Lassing, I find a saying that Confucius is ascribed to: Man has three ways to act wisely – I want to put Mr Barmüller to the heart of Mr. Barmüller in particular – by thinking, that is the most noble way; by imitating, that is the lightest; and by experience, this is unfortunately the most bitter way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] I now ask what ways were possible for the intervention organisations? Was there a similar incident in the past? - No! Was there at least knowledge of the cause of the accident? - No! At least until the time of rescue, there was no such knowledge. However, it is only possible to take meaningful measures if you know what is happening or what is going on. Not the opposition! She was well advised from the beginning. They were the better experts from the beginning. We've gotten a clear picture of this again today. For them, it was always clear how Georg Hainzl can be saved most successfully – read in the Green Report. You would have estimated the extension of the ping, anyway, and so on and so on. I repeat: The experts did not have these basis of decision in the decisive hours and days. But they did their best, and for that they deserve our respect. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Beder.]] But what really shocks me is the way to make public debt allocations without knowing the exact facts. Mr Barmüller! I'm really disappointed. They claim to claim, but remain guilty of the evidence. Why? - Because you can't provide the evidence! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Si tacuisses!]] They place untruths in space and thereby contribute to increasing uncertainty in the population. I admit that the findings of the last few days may bring further clarity and consequences. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: More in the next few weeks! This is a disgraceful game you're driving here!]] The accusations made yesterday all present us with a new situation. I admit, they surprised me because I have known the company for many years as a serious company, whose safety and health is very much at heart. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The whole Styrian ÖVP knows the company very well!]] I was at the Barbara party last year. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is that what it is??- Oh, my God!]] Yes, I was there because it's a major company in my district that has 100 families working. I would like to see mining possible in Austria in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to put this to anyone, but I really ask you: Let us be careful to change political change on the back of the victims of such an accident! You attack indifferent authorities from the opposition, you subordinate to the business of friends and co-scientific. They blame relief teams for failure, although you know how difficult the order was. And you condemn the competent Federal Minister, yes, it is even a parliamentarian to make him co-responsible for the death of ten miners, although you know that it was he who had arranged to drill for so long, as long as there was still a little hope of finding the abandoned ones. They know that it was he who immediately provided for orderly management structures. They also know that, in the meantime, Federal Minister Farnleitner has put in place a series of measures to ensure greater security in the future. And you have finally had to take note of the fact that it was in turn this Federal Minister who set up the international group of experts and insisted on further clarification. Let us not forget, with all due respect, that there is a political debate and, in particular, an understanding of your political objectives, that there is also a human being behind every function. Let us not be unnecessarily distrusted, which may eventually become hateful and cause people who work in the public to face threats of murder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This should not mean that something should be concealed. We are in favour of a rapid and complete investigation of the causes of this accident. However, we rely on the international expert group set up by Minister Farnleitner and the competent independent courts and prosecutors. If it becomes apparent that misdemeanors have occurred, the responsible ones must be held accountable. Until then, however, reticence and modesty are also required by the politicians. The Bergmann and Berufsratsobmann Reiter – he was already quoted today – said during the comfort hour in Lassing a few days ago: The mountain was stronger. For debt allocations is not the right time now. They want a committee of inquiry. But we want an objective clarification of the facts by objective experts. They want a political spectacle. [[Abg. May. Peter: Congratulations on your Parliamentarism understanding!]] But we want the wish of our esteemed Bishop Johann Weber to be fulfilled that the tested population of Lassing may come to rest and find the peace it needs to have hope in the future again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9915	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. No voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9936	Mr President. Let us take a short break, if anyone else should be on the list of speakers. - Good. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Before addressing Mr Farnleitner himself, I would like to address some Members of the Coalition Party who, like my colleague Mr Buder, have repeatedly said: Wait, wait! First, we need to see what comes out. If we had, and with that I mean not only the opposition, until now just waiting, there would not have been the courageous initiative of individuals who said that there was something wrong, then we would certainly not be today on the state of the information that we now have! And now to you, Minister. I still have very good words in yesterday's "ZiB 2" in the ears, when you said you were shaken, you were horrified and you were disappointed. That was quite credible for me – in the way you said it, from the body language, from the language shower, and in everything you presented. But, Mr Minister, it is not a question of me, as a Member of an opposition party, showing you credibility, but of seeing my responsibility as a Member, and at the same time the credible appearance, the human-sympathetic feeling of dealing with a particular situation, plays a relatively small role. I refer, in particular, to the fact that you said you were disappointed and that you did. They are disappointed by the authorities and also by the company. Political responsibility begins at this point. It doesn't matter if you've acted crediblely. That's too much, Minister! It is not a question of a minister being disappointed because he is disappointed by his own authorities and the company to which he has obviously granted a great deal of credit. You do not have the right to confirm or deny a sympathetic or credible appearance in this situation, as it is not for the debate. Here, in this debate, we are talking about political responsibility. If you say in your report that you have acted to the best of your knowledge, I say you have acted in good faith. That means something else. If you say that you have intended an objective examination from the outset, I would like to ask you or your ministry, you have at the outset tried to order the expert as head of the Commission of Inquiry, which has shown that they are in a relationship with the company or also with the mountain captain team, to the mountain authority which is not responsible. The decision has been reversed, but it remains the lack of objective examination or of insight or lack of that distrust – that is what I might call it – which can also be expected from a minister towards those whom he is tasked with an investigation. Third point: You have spoken of it, Minister, that as a reform measure you want to punish the mountain authorities. I interpret this as a mismanagement of the Bergbehörde and as a clear desavowing of your person as a minister. Yes, where else is it, Mr Minister, that you can explain from this bank that I am giving my mountain authority an instruction, and that is exactly the opposite? Is that still understandable? And no one from the government parties is getting upset about it and making the wall to the Minister and saying that this is impossible! Yes, do we still have a political responsibility? This will be taken note of! From this speaker's point of view, Mr Drinkl said that the opposition is indistinguishable to the authorities. Does the Minister himself not have to admit that he has nothing at all to say to this authority? Is that not really incredible, Mr. Minister? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I understand that it is difficult for you to say that, but it is precisely here that political responsibility begins, and here it would be perceived. It is not a question of a minister in this House explaining: My authority does the opposite of what I told her. My authority has issued quick decisions, although I have said that no decisions should be adopted. There would be a number of evidences from the past few weeks, if only several explanations were made by your representatives in the mountain authorities. How many times has Mr Wüstrich disagreed with you? How often have even subordinates opposed you to this mountain authority – until yesterday or evening, when it was still claimed that certain documents are also available to you, although you explain here: They're not here for me! – This is political responsibility, Minister: Here she begins, and here she apparently stops again. You say, Mr Minister – and that was also to be heard in your report – that you were immediately following all the rumors and have tried to work that out. It must be borne in mind that weeks have passed, until at all, the only serious accusation that has been raised over all these weeks, namely that it has been an unauthorised destruction, has actually been checked by you. I'm telling you in all clear terms: Already at the very beginning – and this can be documented – the private detective Pokorny claimed that there had been black loss. Then something amazing happened: Mr Pokorny was accused by the Naintsk works, with a lawyer who – and I do not think that this is a coincidence – in this case does not come out of Styria and, I suppose, is not an economist, but – and this goes to the address of the Social Democratic Group – is a prominent SPÖ administration: The law firm Lansky threatens the action. For me, a small, naïve Member, it is no coincidence that a prominent SPÖ administration, on behalf of a private company which obviously has major problems, is being ordered to sue one who accuses of this work. In my opinion, it was obviously tried by the work to obtain political sympathy and political peace as well. I think that this – quite a passerby – is just as worrying a process as that described by our club chief, Dr. Petrovic: After making the accusation, the next day she received a very polite but certain letter from the same law firm, saying that it might also come to an action. I don't think that's a coincidence! The fifth point concerns something which has not yet been discussed, and I would therefore like my colleague to speak before me so that I can study his report a little bit better. Now there is the possibility that Mr Nürnberger will answer me. This point has not played a role in the debate until now, but has been repeatedly taken up by those concerned: it is about accident protection in the company, Mr Nürnberger. I hope there's an answer. I would be interested, Mr Federal Minister, in the way in which the Bergbehörde reacts to the accusation that the accident protection in the farm was not respected, that the buddy was obviously forced to spend accidents at work as a leisure accident. What's happened since then? Does that appear in your report? Did you mention it? Is this not a matter, although the Mountain Authority as a supervisory body would be concerned with checking the protection of workers at this farm? I wonder what's going on? I'm sure it's going to say something or something from the government parties: Wait, Mr Oellinger, we're going to investigate all this sometime, but we can't go after every rumor. – But I say to you that this was one of the most massive allegations that two women concerned had been brought back to the discussion in "the matter". What happened? When do you intend to meet your responsibilities? What about the accident protection in operation? Mr Nürnberger, I hope there is also an answer from the trade union. With the next point, I come to the very important point: What about the operation? What kind of farm is that? Interestingly, there is a work that is now obviously shed, but there are still some other works that stand in an operational unit with this work: Rabenwald, Weißkirchenn and Ennsdorf. All of them belong to a company, Luzenac, and this Luzenac, the French talk company, belongs to the world's largest mining company. Yes, has anyone in this country ever been involved in this business by those who are politically responsible? It's always called for: On the data highway, on the highway, get into the Internet! Get in, Minister! Find out what's going on! You'll tell me now: I can't do everything, I'm not responsible for everything. – But there will be someone who must be interested in the responsibilities of this company. [[Abg. Nürnberger: (a document to the heights) Come on, colleague! I can't believe I'm drinking after you!]] Yeah, come on? It's coming from me, too. I would have expected someone to address the business and its responsibilities before. I would have expected, Minister, to look closely at this. If only yesterday I let the television broadcast Revue happen – and you can still be so happy, Mr. Drinkl and everyone else that was donated everywhere in Austria –: In fact, it would be to be expected that the company that caused this will be taken into account at some point in time, and in fact it would be expected that those hundreds of millions of schilling that the Republic of Austria is proposing would also be paid off from this holding. Where is the responsibility of the company, which you, Mr Drinkl, know so well as an exemplary company in which everything is so good? You do not know anything at all, Mr Drinkl! I'm just telling you one thing: This company is part of the world's largest mining group and, unfortunately, of a group that, for its dubious practices, not only is anti-union, but also anti-human, socially harmful and environmentally harmful practices, has been conceived by the trade unions all over the world, but not only by these, but also by the British Parliament with a negative resolution. Rio Tinto is only in Austria not a term, although the company in Lassing belongs to this group as well as the three other companies, a group which is characterized by its attempts to obtain the maximum under the most unworthy conditions, not only at the expense of people – and obviously there is also a connex to Lassing if the accident protection is not observed there – but also at the expense of the environment. This is evidenceable, Minister. In view of the fact that Rio Tinto operates, it is evident that wherever it was possible, environmental conditions were not complied with, that this group obviously declared its programme not only to man, but also to those in nature for the sake of profit. I wonder, How are we going to have to listen in this Parliament to the fact that this is an excellent operation? It is only because some Member State or some representative of the Mountain Team or some other authority once looked into the holding with good smile and had to be welcomed and perhaps also made an operational management? Is it possible to make this judgment already? Is it possible, above all, to fall after all that has happened, Mr. Minister? As far as Rio Tinto is concerned, I would also be interested in the responsibility of this company. I only know one thing: When the responsible person from Luzenac came to Austria, Mr. Minister, he did not even apologize to the members, but spoke to the mayor and then left. Well, that's a human component, or a missing human component of a responsible person. But it's also about: How is this company held responsible by you? How will one try to get compensation from this company, which is responsible for the death of these ten miners? Minister! These would be exciting questions, whose answer you should not be guilty of, because they are part of the problem. You too, Mr Minister, are part of this problem, because you – and I come back to the beginning – have acted too well with your own authority and with this company. Unfortunately, this is the political accusation – and it is serious – that cannot be spared you in this debate. This accusation makes it necessary for a committee of inquiry to deal also with your political responsibility and, of course, with the non-responsibleness of your authorities. I think that the process you have described today, Mr Minister, is so serious and so clear in this clarity – and you have provided this information – that it would actually make it necessary for the immediate action and call of 183 Members. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you do not want to see this responsibility and the problem with this authority and its representatives who have been accused from the outset of doing joint business with the company, you also have political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e9986	Mr Nürnberger is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10007	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The employees in the Austrian mining industry are organized in the Metall-Bergbau-Energie union, which I can represent in my capacity as chairman of this union, and all the spilled buddies and miners were members of our union. It was also the biggest and most tragic accident in the Second Republic for our trade union. We have received testimony of solidarity from Brother Unions from all over the world, and I can also thank all the saviors and helpers who have helped save what was to be saved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our task should be to analyse and investigate: How did it come about? Was it an inevitable natural event? Was it negligence associated with profit? What did the competent mining authority know? Who loved those rescues? What lessons, ladies and gentlemen, do we draw from them for the future? According to the competent Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, it seems that profit-seeking, namely black-leafing combined with profit-seeking – why black-leafing is done: to increase profits – has been the cause. The rumours and suspicions that have existed in the region for a long time are likely to be confirmed by the events of the last hours and days. However, the incidents again show us very clearly and clearly what pressure one can reach on workers with the threat of losing the job. For someone who knows the owner who has already been mentioned, that is, Rio Tinto, this will not be an extraordinary thing. There is a very comprehensive investigation of the ICEM. The ICEM is the world-wide association in which the chemical unions, the mountain unions and thus also the trade union I can represent and in which I also work as a functional partner are united. We have produced a very comprehensive report at the last General Assembly of Rio Tinto, and, Mr. Minister, if you want to save your access to the Internet: I would like to make the report on Rio Tinto available to you. The main criticism in this report, which has not only been drawn up at international level by the trade unions, but also together with representatives of human rights organisations, environmental organisations and representatives from the affected regions where Rio Tinto is active – not just a trade union point of view – is, above all, dealing with human rights, in particular with the rights of workers, the local population, the rights of natural resources, and dealing with these natural resources, with environmental protection provisions and a very lax approach to health protection and the safety of work. Rio Tinto is also not afraid to take note of it when actions by trade union officials are prevented and defeated by police or military strikes. I am also saying today – this figure will still play a role in my further statements – Rio Tinto also generated $1.2 billion in net profit in the last year with a turnover of $9.2 billion. Rio Tinto still has a feature, that is, very quickly and without hesitation – including examples in the report – to close entire locations overnight, if this company believes that its profit maximation can no longer be carried out. This situation must therefore also be understood by the workers concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our task must not be to allow Rio Tinto, as in many other cases, to solve problems by pushing a little money into the hands of those concerned, and we are no longer talking about it. It can't be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the rescue measures I hold at the entrance stone and clearly: With no sentence, there can be no point in criticizing those hundreds of helpers who also came to us from many other countries to help us. These have tried, using their own lives and under the greatest mental burden, to help, and they have succeeded in saving at least one, our colleague, Hainzl, – and that is why we are obliged to thank them too. I admit, too, before I go on to say that one has always failed in the post-war period than in the past. If you make a decision today at 2.30 p.m. you can already see the problem differently and would probably have decided differently if you had the knowledge level of 2.30 p.m. at 2.30 p.m. But this is about facts that have also come to us through the reports of our relevant secretary and official on-site. Estimated Minister of State! You yourself admit, indirectly, in your report, that it must have been very chaotic in the first few days. Why else do you have after the 17th century? ==References====External links== Mr. Hofrat Wedrac. I know that there has been a different presentation in the report and in the public. There has now been no clear management structure, there have been no clear decisions, and the Lassinger Voluntary Fire Department – I really have great respect and respect for those concerned there – was on my own during the first 80 hours with its equipment, small pumps and the like. What really falls under the weight is the superlative arrogance with which the representatives of the Bergbehörde and company representatives have acted. Estimated Minister! Today it was read in the daily newspapers: You've shaped the expression "black mining" on television yesterday. I've already tried to find out which paper it was in, I'm sure I'll find it. Today, Hofrat Wedrac teaches You and all of us: the expression "black construction" is not available in the language usage of the mining. – He's right with that, but I'm emphasizing: This distinctive expression is understood by the public. – This also shows the attitude and what superiority there is being acted upon. And you were superlative. They have taken away the experience of the miners, the miners, starting with the Chairman of the works council, who has been working in mining for decades, who knows every angle, every tunnel. It was said that the cuddles, which only a few weeks ago went to early retirement, who had worked under day for decades, were: We don't need your experiences, we make them ourselves. – These are facts you don’t get over. There was no professional press work, no professional dealing with the survivors. In public, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Maier, whom you sent to after a short period of time, found all dead. To this end, I can remind Mr. Diploma Engineer – he is an honorary buddy at numerous mines because he wears the miners' dress on every occasion –: He should also know that the highest principle of miners around the world is the following: A buddy is dead only when he's in front of us. The solidarity of the miners – and one could not exist in the mountain if it did not have this solidarity – is exactly what it is that it is going to do everything in order to save thrown mates. In this context, I believe that the psychological sense of operational management has been lacking in the public. Find out how he spoke to the affected survivors in private conversation before that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We must learn from it for the future, and there I cover myself in a few points with you, honourable Mr Minister. I share your view that very professional crisis management is necessary. I also share your view that a rethinking of the mining authority is necessary. The Mining Authority needs a new structure, modern management, and – with this I certainly do not make friends – it finally frees itself from its monarchistic features, which it still has today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to consider whether everything must be in the hands of an authority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I am thinking, above all, of the protection of workers. To this end, I would like to say: It is true that Mr Oellinger has said, but it is still not official, because the fear of the people concerned there is great, not only the job, but the whole company through Rio Tinto to lose with a blow. We will probably not be able to prevent this if the large group is locked up. But we now know that the mines had the reputation of being one of the safest mines with the least accidents, because in fact many who suffered accidents under the day were required to work or take a vacation. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] I would also like to make a clear and clear statement on the allegations that the attempt has been made to prevent distractions. [[Abg. Young: Yes, sure!]] The interested parties who discussed the mission "To the cause" were too cowardly themselves. They made it the moderator who tried to get the union and the works council guilty because they supposedly prevented magnetic cards, peepserl and the like. I should like to state quite officially: No such proposal has been made in any of the mines in Austria because, according to the latest information and the state of the art, there is no such proposal at all. We did not prevent any magnetic cards in the mine concerned, no peepserl and nothing. The Works Council and the Trade Union have only spoken against Piepserl and Pager above-days, during leisure time. There won't be any. As far as professional accessibility is concerned, there is a clear and clear system in the collective agreement. But security and worker protection measures are and will not be prevented by us. – On the contrary: As soon as they are available according to the state of the art, they are to be introduced into Austria's mines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On this occasion also a comment to Mr Barmüller – he is unfortunately not present now –: Mr Barmüller knows everything, knows everything better. In view of the dramatic occasion we are discussing today, my answer to him is very tame. But this is what I'm holding: He may really know everything, can do better, but if I have spoken to my clubman, Mr Kostelka, and what we both have spoken, he cannot know at the best of his will. But I'll tell him, and maybe he can read it in the minutes: Klubobmann Kostelka and I have not talked about a report, and he has not given me an order not to publish, not to do or not to say something. I should like to inform the House of this. In my life, when it came to representing the interests of workers, I have not been told by anyone whether I say anything or not, but I am always dealing with our colleagues in my responsibility to the address of Mr Barmüller. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] I have one more request, which I would like to express with all my clarity: Dear Minister! I'm looking for you: If it is true that the cause of this tragic accident – I remain in your formulation – has really been blackout measures, please take precautions. I showed you that Rio Tinto had $12 billion in profits. I am aware that the enormous costs have been pre-financed, no question at all. I would like to stress that you and Minister Edlinger immediately decided to do so. But as soon as the question of debt is resolved, I think it must be your responsibility to make every effort to make Rio Tinto repaying these costs to schilling and growling, and that no tax schilling is used. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A clear statement as to why, at the present time – and I underline at the moment, but I do not want to speak for my whole group, I am speaking for myself as a person – I do not agree with a parliamentary committee of inquiry: I have great confidence in the International Commission for the first time. Mrs Petrovic has put very serious accusations on the table. Whether it is in a position to submit the relevant evidence of the matter escapes my knowledge. I can't judge whether that's true or not. She told the public that she was in possession of documents, according to which seven of the ten had been thrown away elsewhere and had survived for a long time, which would have provided a very high chance of salvation. Estimated Minister of State! It must be in your personal interest that this accusation is really explained in detail by independent experts. I do not think anything about it – and I say that clearly – that the Mining Authority, even if it is the highest mining authority, which is jointly responsible for all that is from the first to the last stage, is involved in these reviews, is almost self-evident. I would also like to ensure that the action of the Mining Authority – from the Leoben Mountain Team up to the top – through this independent Commission is subject to a valueless and neutral examination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also trust in Austrian justice. All the consequences of criminal law in this accident are the responsibility of the justice system. As far as political responsibility is concerned – that is my personal opinion, it is probably covered by many of the people present here in the House – Parliament decides in this country! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] I also give a very clear and clear warning: No one should try to bring down the responsibility for this accident from the very top – to "small" managers, to the workmasters, to buddy or anyone else. We will not allow that to happen for our colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The responsibility for this tragic accident lies at the top. She's with Rio Tinto, she's with the Naintscher works, she's with you, Mr. Minister, she's with the head of the mining department and she's going down. [[Call to the liberals:Bundeskanzler!]] In this sense, I offer my colleagues a warm welcome in mining!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10130	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10151	Mr President. Federal Minister! It was really impressive what Mr Nürnberger has served us. He therefore knows the causes of the terrible accident: the profits of the company, the arrogance of the authority, a monarchist-authoritarian mountain law, the concealment of operational accidents, the need for legal demands. Mr Nürnberger! If you had given this speech at this consolation, at this very successful funeral meeting, where our President of the Federal Republic found the most striking words that can only be said there, you would have wondered what your own employees, who were to be represented by you, would have done with you. - You can't see things like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's isolated, and that's that "mist-kübel story" that you blame the opposition. We have undertaken to treat this matter, this accident as objectively as possible, and we stick to it. [[Call the SPÖ:Westenthaler!]] I will not support a request for distrust against the Minister either. We liberals want information to be carried out in a committee, and it is still time, Minister of State. I was a friend of and even related to the people concerned, for example, Mr Nürnberger – for example, I did not find him there – and I spoke to people. I have also made a promise to report things objectively, but it is difficult to remain neutral in the case of such half-truths and the debt allocations you made yesterday. Federal Minister! There are documents available to me that not only the degradation on the said disk 1a without time limit – without time limit! – admittedly, there are also work reports that have been submitted to you and the Bergbehörde three days ago, in which the waste and filling qualities are embarrassingly precisely coloured. There are documents – the company will present them – from which it is clear that – they will have it hard in the evidence process – a black reduction, as it has been apostrophized, cannot be spoken by far. Whether it is the "arrogant" mountain captain who will contradict you, or whether the prosecutor will do it in the future, remains open. According to a press release by the competent prosecutor, who just recently passed through the media, no news was reported by you, but was warmed up documents that have long been available. Mr Federal Minister, we cannot spare you: Your knowledge of this matter is older than yesterday, 7.15 p.m. There are many indications and statements from you, but direct talks with the Authority have also given us this impression. Then the mountain law is released: ==References== July, on the day of the accident, is in the "Small Newspaper": ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner and SPÖ have finally agreed on the amendment to the Berggesetz, which had already failed twice in the Council of Ministers at the Veto der SPÖ. This gives the countries... – et cetera –... more right of influence. Realisation is no longer in the way. – That was the day of disaster. How much have you become smarter since then? Is that the case law again? In this novel, there is nothing about disaster protection, nothing that can now be met – hopefully to be done at my university – that you have now undertaken. Read the letters and read in particular the following, Minister of State: In 1991, your ministry commissioned an investigation entitled: Study of the mountain mechanic carrying behaviour of the offset structure of the valley mining Lassing. A study carried out quite clearly by the largest specialist in this sector, Professor Golser, Leoben, and with additional remarks from the geophysicians clearly states that the degradation in layers has to be done from top to bottom, even specifying the quantities and the offset. – I would like to hand over this paper if you do not yet know it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: I already have that!]] You or the Supreme Mountain Authority have paid, only the results of this study have never been implemented in a modest or administrative manner for inexplicable reasons. That is, in the case of the decommissioning documents, the easily understandable demands of this study have never been assumed. One last thing from this notice: "In the deposit in Scheibe 1a – which is above the already mined disk 1 – the destruction was started in 1995 and a high-quality product is on here." – Note: above! You yourself have said in your report that the degradation has to be done from top to bottom. ==References====External links== In March 1996, a decision dated a reduction in disk 1a, i.e. above disk 1, contrary not only to this study, but also to your report that it is only allowed to be dismantled from the top down, was adopted and acted decisively. – There is actually the puddle core. Federal Minister! Lassing has a highly sensitive – and please read the study! – geological situation, which could never have been hurt in the practised form, you would have believed Professor Golser and Austrian scientists! I also think it is unacceptable now that a country which supplies the Koryphae in the mining and mountain protection sectors with the Montan University worldwide will pass and teachers will be commissioned by other universities only because they are randomly settled in Germany. We would have enough of our own potential, but it does not count the Prophet in the country, because it has given us impressive direction to the Federal Chancellor yesterday about the media. One last thing: I can understand that In view of the promises you made during your visits to Lassing, you are looking for someone who pays for them: There's one who likes to be seen in Lassing because he's a quiet helper. He's a liberal, our state councillor Schmid. You will give me the right, as will the families concerned: He's got no lifting. Your promises regarding new houses have been fulfilled and financed – that would have been your job. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: This is his main task! That's why he's a councillor! Such a fool! That's probably the last one!]] [[14:19]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10220	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I say the following: In accordance with Rule 33(1) of the Rules of Procedure, MEPs shall have power. Barmüller, Dr. Petrovic and Comrades requested that an investigation committee be set up to clarify all circumstances relating to the accident at the Lassing mine and to review all Austrian mountain authorities with regard to the proper exercise of their supervisory and control duty over the last ten years. In addition, the request supported by five delegates is still available, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a debate on this request. This requirement shall be granted in accordance with the provision cited above. The debate and the vote will take place after completion of the agenda. Mr Herzegovina has now been notified to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10254	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was and am shaken and deeply moved about what happened to us in the Styria, in Lassing. It must all be pointed out that such a terrible catastrophe cannot be repeated. I offer my sincere compassion to the women, the children and relatives of the unfortunate miners. Respect and recognition are due to hundreds of helpers who have fought with all their strength and desperate effort for the lives of the cast men. I would also like to thank those who help the affected families with their donations. It is also true that the Federal Government and the Styrian Government are providing tax assistance to tackle housing and the most important financial problems. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing now is the recovery of the spilled miners. [[Abg. Wabl: privatize profits, state losses and then say thank you!]] - Done, colleague Wabl? [[Abg. Wabl: I just wanted to see that! So far is social democracy!]] The most important thing is the recovery of the shed buddy, which has to be done as soon as possible. There must be no doubt about this. As a lesson from Lassing, we have politicians to take measures to prevent recurrences. Until yesterday I assumed that capital mistakes, sluttings, combined with incompetence, superiority of central stations, mistakes in handling technology, mistakes in dealing with people and much more have happened. – But how does it look today? Ladies and gentlemen! We must assume a crime – I say it very consciously – of a crime: Blackout. The prosecutor is responsible for this, and she will deal with it. The Lord has decided, Mrs. Klasnic has meant a lot of pathos. – What a fundamental error! It is not the Lord God who is responsible, but human zeal for profit! Pathos was certainly wrong in place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We politicians have quite different tasks to ask other questions: What measures are needed to prevent such a tragedy in the future? How can miners' safety be significantly improved? How can there be determined, targeted and successfully saved in a crisis? What actions and circumstances were really responsible for the drag-offs in Lassing? How can the mountain law be changed? What responsibility do we have as Members of the National Council? Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany, there has been a committee on mine safety for decades, which is constantly dealing with security issues under way. On the one hand, experts, but also so-called laymen are involved: old-fashioned farmers, former miners, angrants and many more. There there is work in peace and away from the daily policy without a party-political hack for safety in mining. Ladies and gentlemen! There is an honorary code in Northern Germany. Those who want to get political business with pit accidents, with the security of cuddles, would be chased away by an outraged public there. I put to the discussion: I also call for the establishment of such a permanent committee on mine safety in Austria. Following the constitution, this Committee would have the following tasks: the review of all Austrian mines with regard to safety standards, the review of all circumstances and procedures in the event of accident in Lassing and the permanent consultation of the legislator with regard to occupational safety and health protection in mining. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of Members of all political groups examining all the operations and circumstances involved in Lassing, when the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office is available, if the report of the International Committee of Experts is available – in fact, without political hack, without polemics, with people from the region, with localists, with so-called laymen. I am against the fact that the tragedy of Lassing is a political spectacle. Very specific to the Committee of Inquiry: Mr Bundeskanzler informed us about an hour ago that he was in favour of waiting until a report from the International Committee of Experts was received by the International Committee of Inquiry. I fully share this position. Ladies and gentlemen! I know from my own experience how difficult, hard and dangerous the work in mining is. I also worked under day during my study period. Nature is ultimately unpredictable. Mining accidents will never be completely excluded despite all the greatest caution. However, if in Lassing workers in mining were conscious and negligently threatened, there should have been a deadly trap out of profit-making jobs – and this will be clarified – then this is an unprecedented crime against workers in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We politicians are guilty to all Austrian miners – and this is expected of us – that we ensure maximum safety through laws, regulations and control institutions. Let us make every effort to ensure that the Austrian miners can work in maximum safety in the future. – A steiric "good luck!"
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10309	Mr Wabl is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10330	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger! I have rarely heard a speech in Parliament that I could have known a little where social democracy once stood. I have rarely heard a speech flashed through, for which it occurred a hundred years ago. Rarely a speech where I could see how you should actually work. But Mrs Colleague, Mrs Genossin! Why has Mr Nürnberger never talked about this to this day? Why did Mr Nürnberger always put the coalition peace about his trade union concern for the mates? Why has Mr Nürnberger not publicly declared on which side he is standing to this day? Has not this "accident" of Mr Prammer come in between, the "accident" that a minister takes a serious investigation report, alerts the public, and then, after this has proved to be false or possibly wrong, is the sub-organisations of the EIA? In order to maintain the peace of coalition in order to preserve power, the trade union, Mr Nürnberger takes away from what his works councils, his friends, tell him all the time: that a company worldwide acts like a capitalist company in the last century, without regard to human life, without regard to nature, without regard to laws that go against strikers. That was the concern of social democracy at the time. Today you give up this concern because you want to maintain the peace of coalition and because Mr. Kostelka and Mr. Khol – the red brother and the black brother – have agreed: We will not allow control again, we will not allow an investigation again! We have abolished control in this House. For us, the foreign exchange is: We control ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen! It is absolutely ridiculous when Kostelka and Khol put forward a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister to investigate the incidents. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not even ridiculous. What do you think you live in? We are not somewhere where democratic control is on the ground. What have you done from this House, Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been the same wall for almost a decade, the same principle of cover-up. For almost a decade, there has always been the same coalition mechanism in this House, which says: At all costs, we prevent control in this country. Case one: Mein Ladies and gentlemen! This House is talking about arms business, commissions to parties. A man steps back. There is a request for the opposition to set up an investigation committee. It is rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ in constituency that the courts should investigate the Ministry. ÖVP and SPÖ take action to stop the control continuously. Case two: This House has a report on a bank leader who, prior to his suicide, accused the two major parties of having unlawfully influenced control banking operations. A man kills himself! There is a report from him addressed to the parties and to this House. What do you say? – Control is prevented. SP and VP give each other their hands and hold together. The investigation is rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ because the coalitionary peace is more important. The sepulchre of the preservation of power dominates. Case three: An Iranian terrorist command murders in Vienna. Four people are killed. The murderers may leave that country under the supervision of the Authority. A German court finds that there are clear links to the Iranian Government in this case. The Iranian government puts pressure on the Austrian authorities, Thomas Kletil plays a key role in this affair. This house says no to the investigation. The two coalition parties give each other their hands. Kostelka and Khol are back on their way to cementing their power. Ladies and gentlemen! Now at some point at the height: Mr Kröll comes to this pult and gives a speech. You know, Mr Kröll – you are not present now – the content of your speech was unbearable. They almost pretend that the members of the opposition parties wanted to beat out political capital on the back of the dead. You know exactly how incredibly insolent and pitiful that is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They use any means to prevent control. They resort to the means of untruth, you resort to the means of lie, you grasp to the means of covert, you grasp to the means of diffamation, and ultimately you do not care if this house, the house of popular representation, is disarmed. It doesn't matter to you, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! I tell you the following: We're not talking about guilt here. We're talking about responsibility here. You have to answer in a matter that is tragic, which has killed ten people and which we do not know whether it was a crime or just negligent killing, or whether it has been done out of profit and in what way. But one thing, Mr Federal Minister, we already know on the basis of your report today: You can't take on any responsibility because you can't answer it. Why can You're not answering, Mr. Minister? – Because you are no longer the chief in your ministry, where you are responsible as the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! What should a minister in a ministry do if he no longer knows what his officials are doing, and if his officials also make his statements public – public! – correct? Mr Nürnberger spoke of arrogance. Federal Minister! You give an oral report here. We can read: "Let me also make a clear statement about the demonstrations announced for today at Ballhausplatz. In the course of the negotiations on the mountain law, I told witnesses that no pending proceedings may be concluded under old law, i.e. applicable law. Contrary to this instructions, an internal circular letter was sent by the management of the mining section to the mountain captains, which calls for a rapid completion of upcoming cases." Ladies and gentlemen! What must happen in this country that a minister admits that he has no control over his ministry and can no longer exercise the responsibility of the ministry in his ministry? The head of the section didn't ignore his direction, no, he didn't ignore it. – He could have said: What's the matter with what Farnleitner tells me here, I'm gonna sit down and do what I want. – Ladies and gentlemen! The head of the section is obviously even against the direction there and issues an internal newsletter in order to promote profit maximization – in order to speak again in the district of Mr. Herbs. Federal Minister! When would you like to resign if your own section head issues a newsletter contrary to your instructions? What do you want? You still in this house? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] You know, that's about that -- let me have this banal comparison -- as if at a football game the storms would have stepped by his own people. He has a leg break, then presents himself to the captain and says that he is sorry, he has an injury, but he wants to continue playing because it was his own defender who stepped him. He's not going out of the field. Ladies and gentlemen! You're no longer ministers in this house. I am not saying this because I believe that you are guilty of this accident. That would be insolent and unjust, anything would be possible. But you cannot assume your responsibility in this House because obviously the mining authority is working hand in hand with the interests of a group to do what Nuremberger has stated here, namely to increase profits and risk human life out of profit. The environment is indifferent to them. They are indifferent to human rights. In the English Unterhaus there have been investigations on this. We do not have this because Professor Lukesch is so happy to sit in the government party because Mr Nuremberger, Mr Gaál, Mr Posch and Mr Goerg are so happy to be in the government party. There could be a coalition break. It could be that Mr Eder is no longer the chairman of committees and no longer has this direct influence on the ministers. [[Abg. Eder: Mr Wabl! I'm not the chairman of a committee! You're a president!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of a democracy, a people's representation which has given up this dignity, the simplest of principles, and a minister who is apologizing from the government bank – this has been revealing today – that he has given this to his club people, you should finally understand – it should not be an accusation that you have been social partners for so long, but you have been ministers for two years – that you are ministers of the Republic of Austria for economic affairs and not ministers for coalition matters or for covert matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10390	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10411	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Those who followed yesterday's report on public service broadcasting, who today put up the printing media and read the headlines on the alleged cause of disaster of Lassing, have not been able to defend the impression that a minister who is politically practically standing by his own actions k.o. is, immediately before the first meeting of the National Council on the political reform of the Lassing issue, trying to pull his head out of the loop by means of a discharge offensive. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Like the "F" in all discussions here!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is on the border of unfrozenness that we should be welcomed – this is what a colleague from the Liberal Forum has said – to believe in the coincidence that you were in fact only agreed at 7 p.m. on the day before that that in Lassing, as you have called it, blackout was carried out. Mr. Minister! Can you explain to me why all the media – and not only those who have a further printing during the night hours – are already talking about an immenseity today, such as the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", in the headline on page one: "Black mining led to the disaster of Lassing." In it She quotes, Minister of State: "Lassing's disaster is due to an unauthorised destruction in the pit by the authorities. This was announced by Minister of Economic Affairs Hannes Farnleitner on Wednesday." In view of this, do you want to make the House credible that you were actually informed of this alleged blackout at 7 p.m. on the day before? – You don't believe that in this high house. I don't even think Your colleagues from your own party believe this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So it is nothing but the attempt – in the political sense – to pull the head out of the loop and to blame someone else on the responsibility for the pit accident, not at first of all about the efficiency of rescue work and its coordination or the causes, because these are, so to speak, two different pairs of shoes. In any event, regardless of who is responsible for the cause of the accident, the rescue measures must be carried out in a coordinated manner. For you will not make the extent of your efforts to contribute to the salvation of the abandoned ones dependent on who is the causer. That's to be separated once. But you have deliberately tried to put the public behind the light and the House, ladies and gentlemen, too. Mr. Minister! If you are quoted in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" with the statement that the disaster of Lassing is due to a destruction in the pit not approved by the authorities, but on the next day all serious words to the honourable Member of the House in this room, you could not give us any information about the causes that led to this accident, this is the exact opposite of what you tried to make the public plausible yesterday and today. It is about your credibility and the credibility of politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I already agree that you had a hard summer. But this discharge offensive has self-explained! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This House is concerned with the question of political responsibility. We know that in the case of relatively less tragic accidents, the political leaders have come to know about this responsibility, such as the collapse of the Reichsbrücke, when the then city councillor Hofmann took his hat. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! An unconventional observer who hears your speech and compares what you are trying to make plausible to the public cannot resist the impression that you are not concerned with preparing the causes of unhappiness, identifying responsibility and introducing proposals for solutions, otherwise this resolution would hardly have been tabled. The motion for a resolution by the government parties is nothing but a hidden distrust. Federal Minister! That, since you still have no explanation weeks after the accident, why ten people were sent to death – obviously not primarily about the salvation of Mr. Hainzl – after ten weeks of being asked by your own people to make a clarification is nothing but an expression of distrust from your own ranks. I have to say the following: on the question of the Committee of Inquiry, although it is a prelude to the debate on its establishment: Mr Wabl is absolutely right in this regard. It is a shame that Mr Klubobmann Khol is not present from your party, who is constantly talking about the Constitutional Arch. – Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever like you from the government party in the House stereotypes any request for the establishment of an investigation committee because of the formal request, not because of the matter, rejects and rejects, runs a cold erodement of our federal constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10465	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10486	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. We have reached the end of this debate more or less. In my opinion, therefore, it is also appropriate to draw something like a first summary on all of what has been said today, what is left of it and what is to be seen as the result of this debate. One thing is completely incomprehensible to me, although it has been said several times at this point: First of all, there is something like a factual finding about what happened and how these rescue works have been carried out. This has been prepared by an international committee of experts. That's good, and I think this is right. There is also such a thing as disciplinary measures up to the examination of any criminal consequences. That's going to check the prosecutor's office what's right. Then there is something that does not happen in this House and obviously not in that country either. I am thinking of political responsibility or political responsibility. Minister! We don't expect you to know everything. But you, as a minister, must have the question of your responsibility. If such an accident happens, then at the latest from the moment you experience this accident, your responsibility for everything that happens in the future. If that's what you want, it's a minister's job. You have a very special responsibility for this. It is also to be desired, and you also have to give an account about it. While you can see in your report what action has been taken, whether all parties have done the right thing under the circumstances, you cannot judge. You can see in your report that at the beginning there would have been an uncoordinated press and public work, which then led to the following not only inconcrutable statements, but also to wrong decisions. But from the very beginning you have the political responsibility to do so from the moment you learnt about this disaster! You cannot simply get out of the political responsibility with the comment: "I didn't know everything!" or, "I can't know everything!" Steal from it. They have not only a political responsibility, but it is quite clear that from the moment when such an accident occurs, the authority concerned is at the centre of interest and attention. And it is quite clear that you will have to inform yourself about all the steps of the authority concerned at the latest from this moment – I am still patient and start with the time of the accident – and must be informed that you cannot say: "I can't know everything." Come on. You don't think you're completely brusque in the public? You said on TV yesterday at 8:30: I learned an hour ago... Then carry out what you learned an hour ago, among other things, that you learned an hour ago that there are blackout plans as you called them. Two hours later, one and a half hours later, there was a telephonate with Mr. Zechling from the Mining Authority, who said in this telephonate: That's not true, the plans have been in place since 1. August. How do you feel as a minister if you're bruising one of your officials? Even if it's the plans since 1. August, I have to ask you why you didn't know about it. Minister. Even if I really consider all that I have heard today, I still have to ask you why you did not know. What's going on in this authority, in your ministry wrong, if you don't know anything about it, stand here today, and say you didn't know? What responsibility did you take as a minister if you did not know? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't rain yourself up!]] But it goes even further: There were countless comments from this authority, which you have constantly contrasted and the opposite of what you have claimed, both before and after one of your respective statements. The period is quite different. There are also contradictions with that crucial question that concerns the family and the population of Lassing, namely, when the dead are protected. ==References== The following can be read in the "Kurier" on September: The head of the Bergbehörde, head of the Wüstrich section, announces that in October there will be a report in which the following will be held – either has Wüstrich prophetic gifts, if he knows what will stand in it – that the victims will not be found or can be found next year, or that things are not right. I put it this way: Where is your oversight duty as Minister? Where is your political responsibility? Apart from the question that this is not true in terms of content, we have examined this question and we know that we can immediately determine how the dead can be saved. We do not need a weekly or monthly report to do so, and we do not have to wait until next year. But all this isn't being investigated. This is being pushed aside because in this House there is an understanding of democracy which, in my opinion, is alarming. Examining committees, legitimate opposition issues, but also the government party – as I see now, also the S & D party – are equated with inquisition, i.e. a number of open questions which the Minister also mentions in his report. Where are you from? What century do you live in? [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Has it passed you that we live in a democratic state where every question of political responsibility is legitimate, right and right? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Take this back!]] It would be your responsibility and responsibility as a government party to address these issues. But you are in a self-evident state in which you believe you can afford to simply reject investigation committees because they are uncomfortable or might bring on a whole range of responsibilities, omissions to be committed by a minister. Whether he wanted it or not, it is his responsibility, and it is to be determined and asked what actually happened. Finally, I was shocked by Mr Nürnberger's statement, which was quite boldly stated here that occupational accidents had been declared different, that there had been massive pressure. He says this quite boldly as a trade unionist, and there is actually no response in the house – neither by the Social Democratic Party nor by you. Do you find that so normal, so normal, so right that we are in a situation, living in a time when such a thing can happen, when people are put under threat of life under pressure from doing work or not to report accidents or also to pass on information that would have been necessary and would also be necessary? Find all this so right that you can get over it and say: We don't care about that, do we? I think, or I am quite sure, that what Mr Nürnberger said will happen and what he fears - as has been done silently - that the events will overrun you and that you will have to agree to an investigation committee sooner or later.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10547	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10568	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a quote from Christian Morgenstern, who says there is only one cure for countless people – that is the disaster. I ask you: How many disasters does our country need? And how many have we had before? When we think of Chernobyl, we think of the munitions in East Tyrol, we think of the toxic gas explosion in the Linz chemical plant, we think of what we are discussing today, Lassing. With Chernobyl, the authority responded far too late, as is well known. In the first two days nothing happened at all, there was no early warning, not even when the limit of the radioactive iodine had already exceeded the normal limit of the German radiation protection society. In East Tyrol, the inhabitants have been afraid since the end of the Muren in 1995 and have distrusted all attempts to calm down. Two years later, two years after the first wall exit, the second "century event" came within two years. At the Linz chemical plant, the population just passed a disaster, and the mayor of Steyr said the alarm plan didn't work. Ladies and gentlemen! I now ask you: What have we – and this is a question we all, but above all you have to answer me – really learned from these accidents? I would like to show you a brochure that all Members received in the middle of last year: It is the brochure of the Austrian Society for Defence and Security Policy. It has the title "State crisis management in Austria". I quote the first paragraph from the preface to this brochure: The Chernobyl nuclear power plant disaster also brought about a rethinking in the field of civil and civil protection in Austria. - A rethinking! – In particular, the need for coordinated action at all levels of public administration and comprehensive information was apparent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which year was that?]] ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! A rethinking has taken place. The core of this crisis management is the so-called Coordination Committee. This coordination committee, in turn, is a team of experts who, in the event of an analysis of the crisis situation, advise the Federal Government and ensure the exchange of information between the administrative bodies. Well, that would finally be a consequence of all the disasters I've shown you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What does the Federal Chancellor tell us about this issue on the occasion of the disaster of Lassing? – He says he wants a new and better crisis management. He wants it for Austria, and he wants it for Europe as a whole. What does Mr Farnleitner say? – He wants a risk management consulting. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a crisis management, we just have to accept it. It is only in your competence, in the competence of the Federal Chancellor, in the competence of the ministers to use this crisis management as well. This shows a lack of leadership, and here there is a lack of teaching. But that's not even everything. In East Tyrol, the needy population was promised 24 million schilling after the disaster. Only 17 million, ladies and gentlemen, have been paid. 7 million schillings are still open because of alleged budgetary difficulties. Mr. Minister! Federal Chancellor! Being in rubber boots in a disaster is not everything. Weakness in leadership and not yet in keeping with promises! I therefore cannot do otherwise, because I also know that you are going to reject this Committee of Inquiry as the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As in the beginning of my speech, I ask you: What have you learned from this tragic disaster, and how many disasters, ladies and gentlemen, does this country still need?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10637	Ladies and gentlemen! No further words are available. That concludes this debate. I note that the motion for a resolution which has just been put to the vote comes to the vote, and it is identical to the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. We shall therefore vote on the Stadler and Barmüller motions for resolutions. The motion for a resolution Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol, is then voted on the motion for a resolution on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and then on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schöggl and Mr Comrades on the urgency of a reform of mountain rights. I now come to the votes; the quorum is undoubtedly given. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others on the consequences of the mine accident in Lassing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 137.) Requests for failure of confidence to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs shall be put to the vote in accordance with the corresponding provision of Article 74. 1 of the Federal Constitution. The applications were submitted by Mag. Barmüller and Deputies Stadler. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree that the Federal Minister, in accordance with Rule 74(l) of the Rules of Procedure, should. 1 the trust is deprived of a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. These two applications are therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schöggl and Mr Comrades on the urgency of a reform of mountain rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the Schöggl resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Agenda item. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning East Mafia contacts (4852/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10720	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 4852/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10865	As the first questioner, I give Mr Mag. Stadler the word. I would point out that according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed the speaking time of 20 minutes. I call Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e10889	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! When, in May of this year, a book author, who is considered an Ostmafia expert, called the name Franz Vranitzky in connection with Ostmafia contacts in the ORF as part of a "time in the picture 2" and we made a urgent request on this subject, you played it all down – with one exception: Mr. Ex. Dr. Löschnak was so fair to say: Yeah, we cheated. If we had known that this was loud mafiosi – today we are smarter – then we might not have made all these contacts. Mr Löschnak, I hope that you will not be misinterpreted. I come back to your statement once again, to your very self-critical statement – you were the only one – back. Unisono was otherwise disputed, however, walled: It would not be true to exaggerate the FPÖ, it is only about distracting her from any painting, and more. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! For two days it has been EDOK-official and judicial: The SPÖ tip is very deep in the East Mafiasumpf. EDOK-official and judicial – statements of an EDOK official! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to pay tribute to you because it is possible among you as the Federal Minister that EDOK officials also declare what is true in court without political pressure. Something else interesting has come out there, namely that there has been money return on Liechtenstein's accounts. This was repeatedly suggested by us and was also read in the "Presse", but so far vehement has been denied. The FPÖ arguments from May, ladies and gentlemen, Federal Minister, were correct. It is in line with the fact that your party, Mr Federal Minister, whether you like it or not – I suppose you do not like it – is deeply in the mafia environment. This is the problem of the Republic: The largest government party has intense East Mafia contacts. This is a problem for this Republic, not only do we see liberals in this way, but it not only sees many thousand citizens in this way, but it also sees your own Director-General for Public Security, Mag. Sika, he's a highly decent man. I think it is good that such people are working at the head of your ministry. [[Abg. May. Steindl: I heard it different from you!]] You always hear things differently, I often doubt whether you can even follow the debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sika, was one of those people who had suffered a great deal of suffering under Minister One because he did not participate in your propaganda that the bombers were to be found in the liberals. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Mr President. It is, of course, embarrassing for a President of Parliament when he is on Mafia photos. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, that's absurd! That's a joke!]] What's absurd? Ah, that's absurd! Mr. Novotny is not embarrassed when he's in pictures with Mafiosi. That may be the case. I say that it is still embarrassing for a President Fischer to be together with Mafiaten in photos, as I already know Mr Fischer. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That was a reception! Please!]] This one was later shot. I don't know if you're reading paper, Mr. Novotny. This mafiapate was later shot. Should I describe the photo to you? In the reception hall of the President, here in the house, together with Mr Sanikidse, illustrated under the portrait of President Pöder. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This was a reception of the Austrian-Russian society!]] Yes, I know that your Austrian-Russian society is of particular interest. Their Austrian-Russian society is spicy with honorable people of the honorable society. That's the problem: Mr Löschnak has recognized it, Mr Novotny has still not recognized it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look, I'm going to tell you a little bit about what the honorable society looks like: The Honourable Society looks like Mr Sanikidse, together with your ex-ministers Leopold Gratz and Karl Blecha, had a joint venture. Do you want to disapprove of this, Mr. Novotny? – Ah, fighting You don't get rid of it, we've already agreed on one point. It looks as if Mr. Exminister did not object to literature – you can read that at Mr. Roth, which is a prominent German social democrat – has played a prominent role in all this Kandov story and has mediated abductions between Mafia groups. Do you want to disapprove of this, Mr. Novotny? - You don't dispute that. Do you want to dispute, Mr Novotny, that Mr Blecha... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I'm not a judge!]] They're fighting everything. You're one of the top abbots. It may be especially suitable for you: You are one of the top abmaurs when it comes to protecting your own party from the accusation that your party is rightfully raised that your party is firmly in the mafia-sump. Do you want to argue that there are interesting business contacts between Mr Blecha and the Arab Emirates? Consider what business Mr. Ex. Blecha is doing in Jebbel-Ali. Do you want to argue that he was working at the same address as Mr Sanikidse? [[Abg. Gaál: This is a cowardice!]] He says, Mr Gaál. Mr Gaál, it is a joke that people in Parliament are in contact with mafia. That's a joke, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Check your own rows once! Or do you want to deny that there were Mafia meetings at the same address that Mr Sanikidse had his company headquarters? Do you want to disapprove of that? Mafia meetings with ex-ministers of your party. Do you want to disapprove of that? At the same address, the company ABV, which has been financed by your control bank and your city of Vienna, has also been financed, democratically and where liability has been taken over. The ABV Group has the same address as Mr Sanikidse's headquarters. Do you not feel that this might be related to Mr Praschak's suicide? Check this out a little self-critical! Put off and control your district hogs, which you have as district section officer. Once again, she was critical of what was happening around Mr Gratz, Mr Blecha and Mr Schmidt! They're all people of yours. Today, the court record shows how deep the SPÖ is in this swamp. I can't spare you the handwritten protocol of a dead person: It was Praschak who said how pressure was exerted on him because he was no longer willing to finance hotel projects of the ABV Group in Eastern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be self-critical and self-critical. Mr Fuhrmann has admittedly not been a member of the House since today. He has not been able to explain why he was the legal representative of the Nordex group. His previous public statements were very weak. Even the whole stories about the Aurora project – the dawn should have been in St. Petersburg – have been rather poor to date, Mr. Gaál, very poor. This is all an environment, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords, which should be the occasion for you to examine and to say it self-critically: Perhaps it's good if the SPÖ starts a self-cleaning process. Take an example. It cannot be prevented from coming into the vicinity of parties and even parties. No one can prevent that from happening. I told you before. But one has to make sure that the line of separation is drawn to a speedy line, consistent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gaál! Perhaps it would be very good if your party once examined what the then Minister of Transport and the German Chancellor climate did in Orenburg at the Orenburg Telekom. I don't want to cut the history here right now, I mentioned it before. I do not want to cut them because I would like to save another colleague of your group, whom I believe has been misused for contacting this group in Orenburg, Russia, where close contacts with the Nordex Group have been established. The Nordex Group had very close contacts with the ABV. Mr Federal Minister, you will know that, and your officials too know this: The ABV Group and the Nordex Group had very close contacts with each other, and there are also close links between ABV and Sanikidse, ladies and gentlemen. You can read all of this in the Minutes, I have already presented it to them, and I am now sorry to have my speaking time to remind you of all this. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would remind you that Mr Heindl, who is not here now, also has a problem to explain the role he has played in all these construction projects. Mr. Federal Minister out of service! You will remember: I have kept before you a list of the Vienna State Police Department, according to which Mr Heindl is supposed to be a Bulgarian national, called Pavlov, who is suspected of working for certain services, and who has been close to the Ukrainian Mafia. – Now it turns out that he has obviously also played a role in extortion maneuvers around Mr Sanikidse in construction projects! & Now after: This has already been written by Mr Maculan in his book! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! But what is this environment in which one moves? What kind of environment is that in which your own party tip is interwoven? Mr President. What kind of environment is this in which it is possible for the upper fathers of the Russian Mafia, the Kazakh Mafia, the Caucasian Mafia and all the other mafia organizations to travel with you at the President's Salon? Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of environment did you create here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] You think that's funny? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're hurting yourself!]] I know, Mr Novotny, you have a certain idea, perhaps because you have such a Christian-childly mind or because you simply don't want to see reality. They obviously have the idea that social democracy is always clean and only the others are dirty. You think social democracy has nothing to do with Mafia because it always does honest business. If you believe that, however, you have slept over the last 30 years and in particular the last years of the Mafia contacts of your party leader, Mr. Novotny! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is true that your own party leader, Mr Löschnak, has not learned anything from the proceedings. That's the accusation I'm raising now. They have learned nothing from the fact that you have to be careful in the East about who you are dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor, Franz Vrannitzky, is still proud to have particularly close contacts with Uzbekistan, obviously knowing what is happening there at the so-called cotton mafia! For, ladies and gentlemen, he still organizes – and even proudly announces this in the press – delegation trips to Uzbekistan for the purpose of dubious economic contacts. The organization takes place through the ambassador Dr. Saupe, an official of this Republic in the Federal Chancellor's Office – he is from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is now in the Federal Chancellor's Office – but the application is interesting to be made to the West German Landesbank, the information office Vienna, at hand Federal Chancellors other than Dr. Franz Vranitzky. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks! You have learned nothing from what you gave the best in the last speech, Mr. Federal Minister out of service! Nothing you've learned from it! Your people are still on their way today with the Mafiapats! That is the problem facing the Republic! And if you do not believe it, I would like to tell you a current case, so that you can see how Mr Sika has the right thing, if he warns that organized crime undermines our economy, and how right he has to do with it when he says that at the end the dictatorship of these bosses stands. I will show you that the Mafiapats meet here in Vienna at the highest level and are also companies which are indirectly owned by the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For example, this is about a BTL Ölhandel GmbH. This is now in liquidation. The attorney of this company is a certain Serdiouk Alexander, who may still be a term for those dealing with foreign policy, since he used to work for the diplomatic service of the USSR in Vienna. Furthermore, there is an AMC Management Consulting GmbH, which was involved in the BTL. And through this AMC Management Consulting GmbH is mediocre – Mr. Federal Minister, correct me if that is not true, but you know that it is true, because the documents are authentic! – Austrian Industrieholding AG, whose Supervisory Board Chairman, Federal Minister other than Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Josef Staribacher is. - That's how it looks! It didn't happen yesterday, it didn't happen before yesterday, but it's up-to-date, because it's up to today. It is current because your party still has no interest in disturbing the business of the Mafiapats, in which you can cut along quite well! Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem! This is the danger of the Director-General Sika warning to this day! That is the problem he says will end up with the dictatorship! This is a situation in which the police authorities are approaching the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is in the field of the EIA. – By the way, the ÖVP is everywhere; I must mention that so that the impression is not that it is only a party affected here! Mrs. Rauch-Kallat already knows why you're not here now: Of course, your godhole has also been in contact with the Mafiapats. And that's how it goes. There are also coffee house shops that you should also talk about if you had more time to talk about and Mrs. Rauch-Kallat would be here. The ÖVP is, of course, everywhere with it. As has been said, this is so far as the police authorities are requesting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that one should make UNIDO diplomats an undesirable person in Austria, because this diplomat of UNIDO named Boris Z. – I don’t want to mention his full name yet – participate in Mafia meetings in Austria with companies in which the Republic is directly involved with 100 percent daughters. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem you're facing and you have to solve. We can't solve that! We can only ask for a committee of inquiry on this. We have already asked for a committee of inquiry x-times, for example in connection with Mr Praschak's suicide. We call on you to ensure that your party leader, in particular by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, finally explains who is still in this mafia summit from your party head, who is still dealing with Mafia people by the Members, by the Ministers and by the former Ministers! That's your job! You can't simply ignore protocols, which include statements by highly decent officials in court! They could ignore that the FPÖ is making a urgent request. For this, you have the ORF knows God well enough in your hand. The ORF has played a special role in the downplay of all these mafia contacts. This, by the way, continues to take place. The ORF is not interested in it. The ORF is interested in Kinkerlitzchen, but as soon as it comes to the SPÖ tip, the ORF is just like what! The ORF has played this down to this day. But you can't play this anymore, since an EDOK official has told you what we've been expecting here! You can't play that anymore. It's not that easy to do anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: I was happy to hear a tenement that a few people from this mafia field complained to me. You have me and our party officer Dr. Haider sued. That'll be pretty funny! We will ask a few people to witness, and it will probably continue to be embarrassing for the SPÖ in the witness stand. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] You don't believe this, Mrs. Reitsamer? Then you are one of the last believers to have confidence in your pillar saints without any trust. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, apart from Mrs Reitsamer, I address the appeal to the SPÖ: Please make sure that your party leaders finally declare themselves and draw a final line and a dash to these people! That is in the interests of Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They therefore harm Austrian interests. If Austrian companies have to be allowed to travel abroad in the course of a delegation with mafiapates, if Austrian services, including the Ministry of the Interior, can no longer contact foreign services, because they say: You don't know what ends up at the Ostmafia!, then you know how much the interests of Austria are threatened by your gestion and your contacts, ladies and gentlemen! Individual services therefore refuse to cooperate with Austria at all. Federal Minister! This has already begun under your predecessor, but now the situation has become quite dramatic, because you no longer know what is happening to information from the ministries about your party to the Mafiapats. This can be considered how problematic – I am now quoting Michael Sika – and how dramatic the situation for Austrian democracy and the Austrian economy can be if these mafia contacts are not announced and clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! So much for the climate that you have produced in your ministry today, I must now ask you to follow that path that is in the interest of the country, namely the merciless Enlightenment, even if it concerns prominent comrades in active function or formerly in your party's functions. Otherwise, one day you have to make the accusation that you have prevented what your officials at the lower level are calling for help in court, namely to inform you about how much the head of state of this country, prominently represented by members of the SPÖ, but also through parts of the ÖVP, is in contact with Ostmafia, because the people below are struggling to take action against these mafia organisations. This is a problem which, while one in your group recognises, the majority, in particular represented by Mrs Reitsamer, do not yet want to recognize. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Reitsamer! I don't want to show you any more singular. The least one who wants to see it in your own group is Klubobmann Kostelka, who, after being replaced, as planned, by colleagues Cap, wants to become Minister of the Interior. God forbid us from being Mr Kostelka's Minister of the Interior, before the East Mafia contacts are cleared up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[15:22]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11068	First of all, I say that in accordance with Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament have requested that a committee of inquiry be set up to investigate the political responsibility of the pit accident in Lassing. No debate was requested. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place in this case after completion of the agenda. I should now like to give the Federal Minister for the Interior the floor to answer the urgent question. – Please, Minister Schlögl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have today the task of answering a urgent question by Mr Stadler and others. I believe that it is necessary and important, before I deal with the various questions, that I make some general statements and explanations from my side on the development of organised crime in Austria and Europe. For I do not think that we can underestimate the organized crime which has been overestimated in the past in any way, since organized crime is a branch of crime, which is increasing to an ever greater extent and can become, to an ever greater extent, a danger to state institutions and to our communities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The crime analyses of many Western European countries are not very encouraging, and the forecasts for the future show that there is a development of organised crime, which is becoming a threat to society more and more. Criminal behaviors are not only attributed to individuals, but increasingly to entire organisations and are increasingly organised cross-border. Criminal actors benefit from the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons. Technological innovations are more proving to be extremely practical ways of dealing with criminal offences. In many areas of organized crime, Austria can no longer be considered as a closed area. In my opinion, increasing the internationalisation of groups of perpetrators and cross-state criminal activities requires a more coordinated approach by law enforcement authorities in all European countries. As already stated in the request, the Austrian security authorities estimate the share of organised crime in total crime in Austria at about 30 to 35 percent. There is no exact statistical data on the extent of organised crime. The establishment of a uniform methodology of data collection and presentation applied to all areas of crime is in the implementation phase and is very, very important and necessary for me. We are also aware that the Austrian security authorities are confronted with organised crime, which has the appropriate funds, know-how and logistics. Strengthens the use of new technologies and modern telecommunications. The political changes in Eastern Europe, the opening of the eastern borders, the associated high numbering migration, the global trend of organized crime and, of course, our geographical situation can be seen, among other things, as causes of these developments. The organised crime is particularly present in the areas of drug trafficking, property crime, economic crime and the red light environment. To an ever-increasing extent, human smuggling is becoming an important part of organised crime. In hardly any other area, there is so little risk of profit. The perpetrators from organized connections commit economic crimes, international car shifts, protective pressurizations, organized burglaries in buildings and cars, as well as organized pocket thefts, mostly in connection with fraud cases by means of barbarous means of payment. They commit prostitution in connection with possession and trafficking in human beings, money laundering, drug trafficking and other crimes motivated by profit and are responsible for the production and distribution of counterfeit money. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria and other European states are not only threatened by Russian-organized criminal groups, but also by many other groups of perpetrators from Southern and Western Europe as well as overseas. Austria is primarily considered to be a retreat area for Russian organised criminal groups and an organisation basis for the planning of cross-state criminal activities. This trend has been met on the part of the security authorities by the establishment of central OCC control units, such as the EBS to combat addiction crime and the EDOK to combat organised crime. Both special units are summarised in Section II/8. This ensures, at the central level, the exchange of information between the various crime areas of organised crime, which has ultimately led to the fact that ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, have so far succeeded in clarifying all the crimes associated with organised crime in Austria. – Austria is one of the leading countries in Europe in the investigation of organised violence. It should also be noted that, within the framework of the EU Presidency, Austria will set priorities for a structured eastern enlargement in order to ensure that the accession of the Eastern European candidate countries does not lead to a reduction in the high safety standards in Austria. International analyses and situations clearly show that almost all Western European countries are burdened with the problem of the spread of organised crime. As regards money laundering, it should be noted that, in addition to the provisions of the Criminal Code, there are also the provisions of the Banking Act which ensure the effective fight against money laundering. Austria was examined by the FTAF in 1997 with regard to the fight against money laundering. The audit report gives a very positive opinion on the efforts of the Austrian law enforcement authorities in the fight against money laundering. In particular, close cooperation with Austrian financial and credit institutions has been shown as an example. However, as well as other countries, Austria is faced with the fact that money laundering transactions are veiled by the deployment of offshore companies and in addition, the cash sector or the so-called parabank area is increasingly used as a means of avoiding money laundering operations. In this context, I would like to point out that Austria will pay particular attention during the EU Presidency, in particular, to the fight against money laundering, in order to be able to address this international organised crime area through appropriate countermeasures by the European Community. In the field of economic crime, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian security authorities pointed out and pointed out the dangers posed by cooperation with Eastern European companies. The problem of combating this form of organised crime lies in particular in the absence of comparable regulatory density in the states of the former Eastern bloc, in which partly very high human resources fluctuations, but also in the poor income situation among the security authorities there. In this area too, under the Austrian EU Presidency, efforts are being made to improve the efficiency of police cooperation with law enforcement authorities in the states of the former Eastern Bloc. As far as I'm concerned, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, a few brief comments on the activities and efforts of the Austrian security executive to combat organised crime and to combat organised crime, especially from Eastern Europe. I would like to comment on the individual questions as follows: Questions 1 and 2: I was told by the EDOK official of the 15th century. In September 1998, the so-called Sanikidse trial was reported in the National Criminal Court in Vienna. A negotiating protocol is not available to me, so I have not been informed of every detail of his statements. Questions 3, 4 and 5: Excellent connections of the victims of murder Sanikidse to Austrian politicians, no matter which party policy they belong to, are unknown to me and, according to the current state of knowledge of the security executive, not recognizable. In the course of research, it was found that the former government members Blecha and Gratz were shareholders of a company with a location in Vienna in 1991 which was dissolved in 1994. Sanikidse also participated in this company at a later date. However, these circumstances do not result in any criminal consequences. Questions 6, 7 and 8: I do not know what information is available to other people who, after police investigations, can be assigned to the Russian Mafia environment, to Austrian politicians, no matter what party policy they belong to. With regard to individual contacts in economic life and in political everyday life, from which no criminal consequences arise, of course I cannot be informed. Questions 9 and 10: The Austrian security executive observes the activities of the Russian mafia in Austria, analyzes them, and returns notices to the prosecutors in the event of specific crimes. On the question 11: On behalf of the judicial authorities, I cannot give any information on ongoing investigations. Questions 12 and 13: In particular, the task of the Security Executive is to investigate any suspicions of criminal offences by means of investigations and to show the prosecutors. Warnings to persons shall be made if their legal assets are threatened. Before my term of office as Minister of the Interior, I was informed by the Director-General for Public Security of two political personalities. Question 14: The Austrian security authorities have not seen any reason to warn Dr. Heinz Fischer. Question 15: There were no so-called filtrations between the Russian Mafia and SPÖ politicians. Questions 16 and 17: The Director-General for Public Security, Mag. Sika, is a recognised specialist in organised crime beyond the borders of Austria. I share his views on how he has often explained them in public statements, but also in internal discussions. However, the Director-General did not, in any way, call for any decisive policy-makers of the coalition parties to deal easily with organised crime, but generally warned of the dangers posed by international organised crime and criminal associations. The dangers of organised crime have been taken into account in my department in many ways by developing counter-strategies such as the establishment of EDOK, the establishment and training of OK-achievers and OK-Groups, the development of an electronic file for the whole of Austria for the preservation of all relevant insights from home and abroad on a broad basis and the development of new legislative instruments and many other activities. On the question 18: A situational presentation of organised crime in Austria and measures to combat security authorities takes place annually in the contribution of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs to the security report and the contribution of the Austrian Ministry of the Interior to the European situation. A permanent enlargement, Mr Stadler, I think it is important and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11230	Thank you, Minister of State. I should now like to say that, in connection with the request to set up a committee of inquiry on Causa Lassing, which is to be voted on after the end of the agenda for today's sitting, I now have the desire to vote in favour of this vote. The request is sufficiently supported, so a name-named vote will be taken. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has reported on an actual correction. The speaking time and the Rules of Procedure should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11263	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Stadler has recently claimed, against better knowledge, that I or my husband have contacts with the Russian mafia. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here I have the letter, and I also have a translation!]] The examination of these questions is already pending, and there has already been a failure of judgment against the FPÖ because the FPÖ was not prepared to deliver an opinion or was obviously unable to provide any evidence to the court.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11312	We are now going into the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. I am aware that a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes is required. Is that right? - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11340	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with the Minister's reply or with the fact that Vienna has become the ground for organized crime, another comment on the President's photo with the Mafioso Sanikidse who has been murdered. Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a photo on which a high-ranking politician of this republic was pictured with a dubious figure, as it turned out. I have only taken away the most essential from the reports of that time. This was done in February 1994: Mr Cap, then the SPÖ's central secretary at the time, has been engaged in this for weeks and has established dubious links between this prominent politician and the small criminal or fool that was also depicted on it, whatever he was. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Narren!]] There has been a reporting in the electronic and print media that has moved over weeks, and one has made the most adventurous constructions just to harm this politician. Now, 1998, there is a picture of a Mafioso who has since been murdered, on which the President of Parliament is also present. We take note of this, ladies and gentlemen, because a high-ranking mafioso with the President of the Austrian National Council may be mistaken. However, ladies and gentlemen, the equal treatment of these two photos in public reporting may not be possible! I would like to draw your attention to the extent to which you measure it when it comes to a member of the Freedom Party on the one hand or to the highly respected President of this Parliament on the other. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! More fairness in such questions would be appropriate, especially of those who preach fairness again and again, once they are themselves affected, but who then never comply with the fairness if they believe they can harm others! – That would be to say once, and I hope you have noticed this now too. Ladies and gentlemen! As simple as Mr Bundesminister's reply has failed, the matter is probably not that simple. Federal Minister! You've made it look through yourself: Austria and, above all, Vienna are the Eldorado of contentious figures, sloppy fraud, raped existences, corrupt politicians and dubious entrepreneurs, as Roth writes in his book. This was confirmed by Michael Sika, the Director General for Public Security, when he said that Vienna was the "Congress City of Organized Crime". You and Director-General Sika have expressly confirmed this. ==References== It was the security spokesman of ÖVP, Mr Kiss, who once again warned about organized crime from the East and said: Organized crime has developed over the last few years. It will be a security risk for Austria and the EU as a whole. So the security spokesman of the ÖVP, colleague Kiss. In addition, he believes that Austria, due to its exposed geographical situation at the EU's external border, is at risk of a wide variety of forms of crime. – As far as Mr Kiss is concerned. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why is that so? Why has this development occurred in this massive form? Mr Stadler pointed it out. He mentioned the reasons for this, he called it by name, he called it by the "socialist name". I have also been confirmed in a debate which took place before the summer break, in part by ex-minister Lösnak and in part by colleagues who said: Well, if Vranckky had a letter contact, then he did not know that those members of the East Mafia were. He had contact with them, he corresponded with them, but he did not know. What content did they exchange in these letters? That would interest us very much. In a minute list, Mr Stadler has made various links between the Social Democracy and the Ostmafia: Franz Vrannitzky, ex-minister Blecha, ex-minister Gratz and so on and so on. And it is clear that billions were raised to the "red brothers" in the East without a legal basis; billions who have then benefited from people who are also in this sphere of influence, who cannot be fully explained, whose forms are not quite concrete. The Federal Minister, in his reply to the question, embarrassingly avoided bringing light into this dark. He doesn't have the protocols, he can't get any protocols – the "poor" Mr. Minister can't get negotiating protocols! My God, it's bad to be a minister in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Mr Minister, please do not make the impression that you could not get these protocols if it were necessary. If you needed it for yourself, you'd have it. You wouldn't have needed to get her, they'd have been on the table. The fact is: The SPÖ has overturned billions without a legal basis. And Mr Stadler has – so far indisputably – said that there has been a return to Liechtenstein's accounts. We would be interested in how these return flows looked, Minister. Maybe you could put some light in the dark. The fact is, Mr Minister, and we agree on this: Austria and especially Vienna have become important for Russian mafia organisations, which today form part of the exploding organised crime. Vienna has become the European Centre for International Crime Organisations, the UN has recently identified – and I note that through active cooperation from the Social Democratic Party. Prove me the opposite! Minister! In the safety report, it should be read as follows: More and more Russian organizations are setting up their headquarters in Vienna – subject areas prostitution, girl trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering. About 15 new companies are set up each month with Russian managing directors. And you have to watch the relatively inactionless, you even have to hear that there have been the most massive contacts between your party's members and people in the East, who now find themselves in the area of this organized crime. Mr Löschnak said: You didn't know which people are! It was perhaps only later that they developed in a criminal direction. The fact is – whether or not You have known that or you have not known it –: They have become a door opener for organized crime from the East! Now we have these in Austria, and you have the responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11396	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11418	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The urgency of the liberals to the subject really deserves to be enlightened in several ways and direction. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There's a lot to light up!]] I shall try to contribute to this in the speaking time available to me. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to urgency and their justification: This must be done on the tongue! If you take this urgent request from the present day and compare it to the one you made on the 14th. In May of this year, it is concluded that, with the exception of the introduction, the first sentence you have modified a little and a sentence on page 2 in the middle section you have modified, everything is the same as a point and an addition – up to page 3, where you think that you have the latest knowledge from the murder process against Sanikidse. But otherwise everything is the same! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's still burning up!]] Dear friend Ofner, you must first explain to us what can still be urgent about this question today! ==References====External links== May urgent or urgent today. ==References== May and today's text with the same word can't be urgent! That's gonna show you too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First finding in this context: Apparently the cause is the Troubles in which the FPÖ has been in for some time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The contentions go out to you, so you will be polemically!]] No troubles, all right? [[Further calls to the liberals.]] We can hear this communication. I've believed you've been having troubles for a few months. That is why I have come to the conclusion: The Troubles in which you place the FPÖ simply do not allow any more distinctions: What is urgent, what is not urgent? What is important, what is not important? What are the concerns that move people in this country, and what are concerns that do not move people? There you have to find a trail, or you'll fall into these confusions. – But that was just the formal introduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] On the content, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't need Minister Schlögl to keep the bar!]] He doesn't need me, he can defend himself, ladies and gentlemen. But now to the content: There is a trial for the murder of Mr Sanikidse in July 1996. And you take this as follows – and now I quote literally from page 3 of your urgent request –: "According to the EDOK investigator, numerous connections between Sanikidse and Austrian politicians – including former SPÖ government members – and companies were known and documented by photos. The EDOK had warned these people of public life. It sees in such contacts of Austrian politicians with such individuals, who, according to their findings, are Mafiapats, the danger of the migration of Austrian society." And what really is? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not of us, the EDOK official says that!]] No, no, you're going to give it back, but as always, of course, only broken and only half-truths. This is not at all true in the crucial passages. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will read it to you then!]] You're welcome to read it to me. I am delighted to see what you will read to me from the court proceedings that were the subject of the proceedings two days ago in the national court. What really happened? – There was a discussion between the Security Bureau and the EDOK in July 1996 which discussed various questions, such as the evaluation of items that were ensured in the course of the investigations in this procedure, including photos – I will come back to them. They also talked about the knowledge of the EDOK about the Russian mafia and thus organized crime. This was recorded in a file note. That was a record note which, of course, went to court proceedings. Only: No syllable was given a name for this record note. There is no name in it, nor has it been called a politician. They then asked the EDOK officials during the court hearing what he would have to say on this file note. And he then explained that entrepreneurs had been asked several times, how the relationship in Russia was with certain businessmen. And in this context, he has also found out what general investigative positions existed at the time and now exists. This is enough for you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, to say quite simply: Numerous connections from Sanikidse to Austrian politicians and entrepreneurs are known and documented by photos. - So far you go! [[Call to the Freeman:Rege imagination!]] On this occasion, I wonder, since you are always taking advantage of the interests of the willing, the sincere: How are those who are constantly thrown into the swamp by you to avoid being treated according to your principles? For example, how does Mr Heindl, who is crediblely assured that he has not been honoured to be thrown into the swamp by you? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Alexander Maculan explained the opposite!]] Mr Dr. Mr Krüger, you will also be able to see that there is a difference between Mr Maculan and Mr Dr. Heindl. It may be that Mr Maculan has been extolled – I do not know – and Mr Heindl has not been impressed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Maculan is lying, the Heindl is always telling the truth! That's a red pair of glasses.]] That's what he tells you, and you just don't believe that, because it doesn't fit into your concept. He must be in the swamp of the Russian mafia when he is mentioned somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a board of directors!]] – These prejudices, just because it suits you, because it fits into your concept, we simply reject them and simply reject them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the photos. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is naïve!]] This has nothing to do with naïveness. It may already be that I am, on a case-by-case basis, naïve, but I prefer to be naïve than to have the qualities or qualifications that some of you have, ladies and gentlemen. I'd rather be naïve! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] So I'm coming to the pictures now, as you seem to have addressed two or more photos; I don't know. At the hearing, a photo was spoken of on which Mr Sanikidse and also the President of the Austrian National Council were to be seen. That's enough for you to make a big bow and say: Unheard of! Even the President of the National Council must be in contact with the Russian Mafia, otherwise there would be no picture! You do so – and now I come back to the naivety you have referred to – as if you did not know that everyone who stands in public life – and for the President of the National Council in particular – in the year probably, I do not know exactly, five hundred times, a thousand times or two thousand times: with Mr. "Maier", with Mr. "Müller", with whomever. And once upon a time, Mr Sanikidse was there. But that's enough for you to stretch the bow: That must also be with the Russian mafia! – This is really infammable, and you should be ashamed that you are straining such arches! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another point in the short term. It is about the fact that, in your urgent request, you are also blaming that the Federal Government has apparently failed to do so because it did not warn in due time that it did not take due account of the rumors, the suspicions that have arisen over and over again. – Yes, I have to ask you: How do you imagine investigating police authorities? How, do you think, do they go before themselves, if any rumor appears, some suspicious moment, and then again called Lord "Maier" and Lord "Müller"? Now has the investigating authority, the EDOK, to say the commitment: Aha, he's now called, we need to warn him!? – That is not possible at all! This is not possible, because this would be counterproductive for the investigations, if something was really behind it, and if nothing was behind it, ladies and gentlemen, then you would first and foremost be excited and say: Unheard of where the police are everywhere and who warns them and suspects them indirectly! You probably had the urgent questions for the next few years alone on this occasion. – We simply reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It's relatively easy to see what you're playing here: The FPÖ is in the crisis – I am already at the end of the sentence, Mr President – the FPÖ-Lower Austria in particular, the FPÖ-Obmann also, as he repeatedly acknowledges, and the party as such, of course, too, for otherwise the obscene would not seek a change. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And so that the whole thing doesn't turn down with the voters, it always has something to do with it – today it's the connection to the Russian mafia again. Just, I'd say, That was a weak day for you! The motto "Let's try it!" It really hasn't gone up. It was simple and simple, Mr. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11644	Mr Stadler has referred to an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11668	High house! My previous speaker claimed that I would have called Mr Heindl wrong in connection with East Mafia contacts. I am correcting as follows and just quote – Mr Löschnak, you have to answer this quote now, because I would have saved Mr Heindl: A report by the Vienna State Police of October 1996 shows the following: Pavlov is Bulgarian citizen and real estate dealer in the eastern block. Pavlov is the owner of the company Sama HandelsgesmbH Wien. Pavlov is a member of the Ukrainian intelligence service and is considered to be highly dubios. Pavlov has best contacts with National Council member Dr. Kurt Heindl, SPÖ, who has been working as Supervisory Board in East Business for Hofman & Maculan since 1981. Pavlov also has good contacts with Alexander Maculan himself. In this context, it is noteworthy that Dr. Kurt Heindl (severely indebted) via an Ebenseer Baumwerke AG with the same-named...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11687	This clearly goes beyond actual correction. If I may remind you, the alleged facts must be reflected: Heindl would not have any contacts with the East Mafia and with which the opposite is the case. But you cannot read documents, Mr Stadler!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11708	But I can call you two sources. If you do not even meet any more official sources and testimonies in proceedings, Mr President, then I am clear why the photo with Mr Sanikidse is embarrassing to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11738	This does not change the fact that in the President-in-Office we have clearly defined how actual corrections must look. And that must apply to everyone in this House! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I note that official documents are no longer sufficient if it is embarrassing for your party! This has not been determined anywhere!]] The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11768	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to join with the technical statements made by the Federal Minister. In the truest sense of the word, Mr. Bundesminister a. D. Franz Löschnak "cleaned off the Christian tree" with his entry, because I too, colleague Stadler, took the urgent question from May this year at hand. And, of course, I also came up with what Franz Löschnak said: It has actually been a word-identical request. There and there is perhaps a sentence different, in addition the word "Sanikidse" was inserted. I asked myself, Mr Stadler: Where was the urgency really given? [[Call the Freeman:EDOK!]] She wasn't plausible to me. I note that you are "necessary" to something different than I do from the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Stadler! This is precisely because no one in this House – not a single representative, not a single political party! – The Austrian People's Party, as part of this Federal Government, has consistently contributed initiatives in the legal field with SPÖ since 1990, among other things – I remember – the criminal law novels in 1993, in which we have even determined what organized crime is, what gang crime is, what mafia organisations are. And by means of the criminal law amendment laws 1996 and 1998, we have defined how we can meet these organisations. Furthermore, in a long battle with the opposition – with the Liberals, with the Greens – we have decided to investigate methods in this House in order to give the executive opportunities to deal with organised crime in a targeted manner. And I – please forgive me, if I say so – is the best witness to the fact that in the committees, when it came to pressing through grid arrest, noise attack, with the help of the arguments of experts and international experts, it has been tried to disintegrate all of this. I am not suggesting that he wants organized crime, but they have underplayed some of them in this House. And that is why, Mr Stadler, you do not give the matter a good service yourself if, within the framework of this urgent question, you raise the subject completely differently and give a shaky picture. Believe me! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just like the one!]] No, no, that's all right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Because Mr. Karl Schweitzer quoted me – and that's right, that was an issue: I addressed, among other things, what is the greatest expert in organised crime in Europe, the head of the European Drug Unit, Storbeck, in Alpbach, on 20 July. August said. Among other things, he meant – and I quote indiscriminately from APA broadcasts – that: Organised crime in the EU is on the rise. Drug production and drug trafficking. Organized crime, motor vehicle theft, international car shift, false money crime, garbage tourism as a new perspective. The true human being – he is talking about prostitution – the inclusion of people who exploit and according to Storbeck make up a total turnover of 12.7 billion schilling a year – on the back of the poorest of the poor, as I believe, an unimaginable sum. Finally, he is also talking about protective pressure, which is of course also part of the system. Mr Stadler! I have been told that this summer in Tyrol a discussion was held about your country partyobmann Linser. This party of FPÖ, among other things, has demanded from every FPÖ administrator, from all those on a list of candidates of the Freedom Party, that they deposit a bank guarantee of 1 million schilling in case they leave FPÖ. Is that something different from protective printing? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: such a fool!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pauli, stop shooting your knees!]] Is that something other than a mafia procedure? Don't you force people into a yoke? And then you come out here and sue things that can't be complained at all. This will make you unbelievable, Mr Stadler, and I think you are. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pauli, in your own interest: Stop shooting your own knees! Otherwise, you'll be taken away by the gunpass!]] No, I'm not. Besides, I don't have a gun passport, I don't have a gun document. I don't have a fist or a long weapon either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We didn't attack Scientology at all!]] Yeah, I know. Question 16 I would like to correct on behalf of the ÖVP. Among other things, you include Director-General Sika – I quote – as follows: "Do you share the view of Dr. Sika that the easy-to-use handling of organised crime, which this leading politician of the coalition parties has accused of, ultimately poses a danger to Austrian democracy?" [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop fucking around with the gun! You're hurting yourself, Pauli!]] So: Director-General Sika has never blamed anyone of the Austrian People's Party, who is in a political role. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Burgstaller, Mensdorff-Pouilly...!]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to say that I am in favour of Mr Sika's report. Never did any of us just come to the Odium one of your allegations. I can see this clearly and clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, but also a declaration of honour on behalf of the ÖVP and in my name: President Dr Heinz Fischer is an honorary man for us, even if you wanted to present it today as if he were not. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Such a grarian! You've told me a lot of other things. Should I tell you what you said about the fisherman? False fifties!]] We know the method behind it, Mr Stadler, and the method is clear and clear: With the person of the President of the National Council I discredit the role of the President of the National Council, and with the devaluation of the role of the President of the National Council discredit, desavow and destabilize I also this Parliament, all of us. That's the method. We reject these, and therefore you will never receive an agreement from us in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11942	Mr Stadler has referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e11966	High house! My previous speaker said that never has anyone from the Austrian People's Party just come near or into the smell of East Mafia contacts. As an example of the inaccuracy of Mr Kiss' statement, the "Economic Week" No. 51 from 1995 – I must not read it, otherwise I would do it – where exactly how the honourable Member, a. D. Paul Burgstaller, took a Mafioso named Anatoli Pissarenko by 52 million schilling, resulting from the arms trade to Croatia. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can only say, 'This is wrong!' and then you must sit down.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: There he was neither a Member of Parliament nor a member of the ÖVP!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This procedure has led to the fact that Parliamentary Pauli Burgstaller no longer trusted himself on the doorstep, so much was the smell of Mafia contact.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12034	The next speaker is Mr Moser. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was to be expected that the debate on this urgent question of the liberals will be a debate on organised crime. There was really no urgency, but very probably the situation in our country must be described as serious in this regard. We face a threat to organised crime; the Federal Minister has already said this in his introductory remarks. Organized crime threatens our society, and it also affects the constitutional institutions and the political leaders in that country. I must say quite honestly that the measures taken so far are somewhat inadequate from my point of view and from the point of view of our group, even if the approach is quite correct. Of course, we need increased international cooperation, we need to strengthen training and training, we need structural adjustments, but, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that you are trying, but in reality you are not really moving forward with the planned measures. I have, because the Federal Minister has also referred to the security report, taken the last safety report we have debated in this House, the 1996 safety report. Although much is written here about organized crime, here on more than 20 pages the different forms of threat are presented as such, only one area is missing: It is not addressed what is to be done when it comes to preventing a threat to the public institutions and ensuring that the constitutional bodies are protected accordingly. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for action. We need appropriate measures in order to be able to address the threat of state institutions and institutions through organised crime. In this context – and this has also been mentioned in today's debate – there are, of course, two areas of problem, two of which I would like to point out. One problem is cooperation with the judiciary, especially when it comes to members of the EDOK, members of the state police making statements before the judicial authorities. And I ask myself, Mr Federal Minister, and in your reply to the urgent question, this has not really been made clear: Are the own perceptions that the officials here announce before the court, or is that the state of the EDOK's knowledge, is it the state police's state stand? In fact, there are similar tensions. The EDOK man says there are contacts of renowned politicians with the Mafia, with the Ostmafia or with other criminal organizations, but in the answer to the question this is actually denied. It is shown that there are no contacts, that there are no conscious contacts, and that is why we have to think about something so that there is not a false impression when members of the EDOK when members of the State Police have to testify to court. For, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that the personal assessment of the official in question is expressed in court, if that is the personal, the own perceptions and not the state police's knowledge, then we need action in a certain direction. Then, I think, is really a danger in delay, but not only by organized crime, but also by the own officials of the EDOK or the officials of the State Police, because they thereby put the political system, the political head, the persons affected by it into a bad and false light, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore believe that it is necessary to take appropriate measures in this context. The second point is the question of dealing with the findings of the EDOK and the State Police. It has already been described in the debate today that the country's political head is still affected. That means we're all affected. We all have corresponding contacts with the various economic sectors, with the political spheres, and no one can tell exactly who he actually has to do with at a meeting with whom he is photographed and is pictured, since there are very numerous contacts by the members of the government and by the Members of Parliament. Therefore, it will be necessary to consider measures to protect these persons as well – through appropriate information, by appropriate warnings, by these or those persons, to exercise caution in these or those organisations. I know – and Mr Löschnak has also mentioned this – that this is very difficult and that it is a certain graze: To what extent can one pass on information from the surveys on the one hand, how far can one actually go to warn individual politicians or economic operators of organised crime? There will be a need to consider this, and I believe that it is necessary to discuss this problem in a Parliamentary control body, namely in the Parliament's Standing Subcommittee on the Protection of Constitutional Institutions, in short: the Stapo Control Committee. Federal Minister! I expect you to have an extensive report at the next meeting of this Subcommittee, an addition to the debate we are having today, because it is necessary and because it makes sense to hold this discussion in this body, because there is also confidentiality there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12108	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12129	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can remember that during the last or one of the last debates we had about organized crime in this House, a member of the liberals – I think it was the chairman of Haider himself – was very excited with a letter by the German author Jürgen Roth and said: Now we have the final proof of the arrival of Austrian Social Democracy: This Jürgen Roth is distanced from the Austrian Social Democrats! I think it is also right to remember that some time later, when this public demonstration came to his attention, Jürgen Roth was embarrassingly touched by this interpretation of his letter and also by the interpretation of his book by your then question, in which you have directly accused the social-democratic politicians, while at least in this public opinion Mr Roth has stated very clearly that he in no way wanted to accuse any politician of direct development in East Mafia business. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what Roth has done!]] Why do I say that? Mr Jürgen Roth is certainly a very successful and also knowledgeable author, who has been dealing with organized crime for a long time and has not written the first book about it. I can also recall that years ago he wrote a book in which Austria also played a role in connection with organised crime. He describes an event that took place in the Lusthaus in Vienna's Prater, where a coke party of people close to organized crime took place, of which the Rauschgiddezernat was informed, but, according to Jürgen Roth, it was obviously prevented by a hint from taking a successful prey from the Vienna security office. That is to say, Mr Roth, however well-founded at the time, accused the security authorities in Austria of working in the hands of organised crime. I think I can remember that he even meant Mr Sika. This has never been mentioned in any debate, and I do not think it very significant, because I can well imagine that in this metier, in which a lot of rumors is worked on, such theories are quickly constructed, just as, two or three years later, not the theory about the Vienna Security Office, but the theory about Vienna's politics was represented. Mr Stadler! I think I can recall that we had this debate here in the House a few days after the murder of the jeweler Haban took place. This was of course a very good snow for your request: Ha, already organized crime, that confirms our theory, the East Mafia is already in progress again. Mr Stadler! I am glad that Mr President-in-Office Fischer or anyone else has never been seen in a photo at the Haban company. Otherwise, you would probably have waved with this photo back then and said: We now have the proof that Mr Fischer, the leaders of Social Democracy, the ÖVP or the Security Bureau – because they sometimes have to look by with a jeweler – are covered with organized crime! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Colleague, that's what the EDOK says, not what I say!]] That's the way you construct your theories, ladies and gentlemen! These are latrine rumors! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what the EDOK says! Do you know what the EDOK is? The EDOK man says that!]] Mr Stadler! Follow You patiently say a few more minutes, then I am at the end. Follow my remarks, they may help you a few thoughts, and sometimes that should not be harmful. If I only introduce myself, Mr Blecha and Mr Gratz – I am now following the execution of Mr. Interior Minister – were involved in a company, 1991 or what I know when. Then they give up the participation in this company. In 1994 Mr Sanikidse moved into this company. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's wrong! They were involved together! That is what the Minister has described. I have to protect the Minister, the Minister has made this clear.]] He presented this in this direction. He gets into this company at some point – and from that you construct the mafia connection. If I can follow this kind of construction, then we are probably all guilty here, because by our hands we must have already gone sometime into a money note that was in the hands of organized crime. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a complete nonsense!]] Their way of creating connections and trying to provoke, is something too easy knitted! I'm making you a different connection, maybe you're interested in it. I refer to the statement by the Director-General that you are quoting in your question. That's what it says: "The Director-General for Public Security, Dr. Michael Sika, appreciates the threat of Austria by the organised crime controlled by criminals from the former Soviet Union, by stating that "you have to be clear" that there is no trade with Russia without somehow getting in touch with mafia people." – This is a fundamental quote; rather, a fundamental assessment. I hope that the quote is correct, but Mr Sika's assessment is, in any case, fundamental from my knowledge of things. What are we following, Mr Stadler? – There is no longer any trade with the successor states of the Soviet Union. What does that mean? Is it your conclusion that it is necessary to give up trade with these countries, because, in some circumstances, it is not under any circumstances, but with certainty, that mafia should result from it, because everything that happens in trade matters with these countries could, of course, have something to do with the Mafia? Is that your conclusion? Then specify it in this direction! Or another possibility – Mr Stadler, you have to follow me again –: The way to think more precisely about transnational corruption is now under way. This is an exciting topic. It is clear that in Austria tax money is spent on the fact that companies operating in eastern trade can deduct their expenditure on commissions, protection fees, corruption and hence also on promoting organised crime from the tax. This is possible under the Income Tax Act. The question is as follows: What do we do with this, Mr Stadler? That's the point. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A new tax concept!]] – Your tax concept in this direction does not calm me down. That's the point: What do we do with it? The law in the United States explicitly forbids their companies to be involved in corruption abroad and to deduct expenses for commissions and protection fees from the tax. This is not the case in Austria and Germany. Farms from these two countries can deduct from the tax money they have to spend on protecting money abroad for corruption. But that is nothing else, Mr Stadler, than that any form of trade with these countries should promote corruption and organised crime in these countries. That is why the United States, in this case I say, quite rightly, called for all industrialized countries to follow their example. We only have the problem, Mr Stadler, that Austria is somewhat sparse in this respect. But I have not heard anything about initiatives on your part that Austria should hurry up in this respect. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will tell our Minister of Finance of the SPÖ!]] That would actually be our job, that would actually be the subject. Its conclusion can only be: no trade with a country in which there is some form of corruption or crime, because otherwise there is a risk of getting your hands dirty. I do not know whether this is the conclusion you want, which is already approaching Albanian states. This would be an imaginable variant and certainly imaginable for the economic concept of the liberals. But I think that's wrong. I believe that we should discuss this very seriously and seriously. There will then be some roots for corruption, transnational corruption and organised crime in cross-border transport. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I will tell our Minister of Finance!]] These roots are thus much closer to being made than to making constructed claims about certain companies and about certain persons. Another point: I can remind myself that Austria has been given certain credibility in international transport in connection with money laundering – the Minister of the Interior has also said so. However, there is one point left open. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] These are the anonymous accounts. I can remember that..
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12258	I ask for the final sentence – and not too many comments in this conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12273	I can recall that these anonymous accounts, which form an essential basis for money laundering, have been defended by the liberals. The conclusion of this, Mr Stadler, can you draw yourself?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12304	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Oellinger has once again presented himself as a mandatory defender of social democracy here at the speaker's desk. Mr Oellinger, to say that we all have Mafia connections if we have money in our hands, which eventually went through Mafiahände, and that is comparable to the social link between Mr Blecha and Mr Gratz and Mafia companies. [[Abg. Oils: This is your conclusion, not mine!]] This is an insolence, Mr Oellinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You didn't understand the essence of a comparison!]] Who do you think you're gonna put yourself in that stuff for? Not even the own comrades of the SPÖ have found a word of defense for Mr Blecha and Mr Gratz. When I was in the discussion about the Mafia before the summer break at the speaker's desk, Mr. Schieder said: We have nothing to do with Gratz and Blecha. And you, Mr Oillinger, are in the stuff. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I was also amazed, of course, when I read an interview with the old mayor Gratz in the "Wiener". I still have the gesture of the Lord of Arbitrator in good memory, when he said: He doesn't belong to us anymore, he has nothing left to do with us. – Please, Mr Gratz is still honorary of the Vienna SPÖ today. So much to the distance you're talking about, which is to be drawn towards people who are dealing with the Mafia. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Blecha is now the new election manager of SPÖ Carinthia!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has so little to do with the SPÖ!]] These are the connections your former Minister Blecha has. To say, Mr Blecha, by chance, possessed a joint venture, shared shares, may still be in the remotest position on Mr Gratz, although I do not wish to address to him the credulity in this connection, but Mr Blecha is a former Minister of the Interior and co-founder of the Mitropa Institute. This is a peculiar form of society, a peculiar institution dealing with the placement of West East business, especially Russia. Mr. Blecha is an intimate expert on the mafia scene in Russia. He sent a letter to the President of the National Council and said: My connection is that I was asked by a mafiaite to intervene for his abducted son. . As to say, Mr Blecha has nothing to do with all this, he just happened to have had a few percentages of shares in a company in which Nordex, Mr Loutchansky and Mr Sanikidse are involved, which really cannot make me plausible. Mr Oellinger! I don't know. Do you imagine yourself so naïve in this regard today, or are you really all serious about the last good-believer of the SPÖ, although there are no longer even in their own ranks compulsory defenders for their former owners and now still in office honors? [[Abg. Oils: Always!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it surprising that, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, through the radical transition from the plan economy to the free market economy – a too radical transition, I give you the right to develop mafia structures if you argue in this way. [[Call:A too radical]] There are former KGB spies who have suddenly become unemployed, but who have immense influence and immense knowledge, dubious businessmen, transitional winners, crisis winners who form mafia structures and then try to export these mafia structures. The Federal Minister said it: Austria is a march for these mafia structures. You can't say you didn't know you were innocent. I am the last one who would be subordinated to the President of the National Council to seek the contact of these people. [[Abg. Wabl: The third last behind Stadler and Haider!]] But this is, of course, the strategy of these people. They take up lawyers who are in a certain distance to the government or to representatives of the government parties. They are looking for contact with Members, they are also looking for contact with the President of the National Council and can then, on best occasion in their own home country, present photos and say: Look what we have for good connections! [[Abg. Oillinger: What about you?]] They may also impress on one security officer or another the impression of a certain degree of intrusibility through these excellent connections. [[Abg. Wabl: Krüger, do you also have contacts?]] That's it. That's why it's going, and that's all clear, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Löschnak said that Maculan and Heindl were two different people. - I'll give you the right thing. On Monday in the "ZiB 2" mission, Mr. Maculan replied to the rapporteur's question: Of course, it's true, my company has been extolled by Sanikidse. Please, Mr Löschnak: For how naive do you think the Austrians and the Members of this House, when you say that Mr Heindl, the Member of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors responsible for foreign contacts and Russia, was not informed about this? I would also like to say that Mr Heindl is probably the victim of such blackmail. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Löschnak) He was the recipient! That's right!]] It may be. But Mr Maculan, who has nothing to lose today – he has already lost everything, his business and most of his assets – has said that he has been extorted. Ladies and gentlemen! So you can't deal with this matter. Mr Federal Minister – now I come to your conclusion – you cannot be a minimalist on the one hand in the reply and say: I deny the question of whether there has been "excellent connections" – but that does not mean that there have been links – and on the other hand, I say: We must do everything we can to combat these mafia structures here. - That's too little.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12503	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12525	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lösnak and Mr Kiss have already pointed out that today we are dealing again with a urgent one, which is the same as the one already discussed here in May. I even went one step further, it was also the speech of the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12540	Mr Leikam, I may interrupt for a second. A motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krüger, with signatures of five Members, has been presented in writing but has not been submitted. Is this still going to be put in? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come on!]] This is important for the introduction. Please, continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12567	The question is not only the same from the text, but also the speech by Mr Stadler was entirely identical to the speech he gave here in May. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not quite!]] I read in the Minutes, and it didn't change at all. It was the same meal, it was the same coffee. It contained the same insulting words as they were to be heard here in May. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Additional items were included today!]] Nothing new from the content, but really only one reason, which from your point of view is completely understandable, for which we have no understanding of the SPÖ: You want to distract, distract and divert once again from those problems you have in your party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you, Mr Stadler, have referred to this so-called honorable society in the Social Democratic Movement, I would like to say clearly and clearly: [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is cold coffee!]] Members of a party who are involved in tax criminality and proveably in data clau, deputies and a party observer of a party who is responsible for the lack of an amount of three-digit million, shall not be allowed to judge others in this form and to talk about an honorable society. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the untruth!]] [[Abg. Böhacker:...that this is the untruth you say here!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take care of your party once! Make sure that there are no innocent savers there! You have enough to arrange in your party. All your accusations, Mr Stadler, which you have raised here today against persons of the SPÖ and, in part, also the ÖVP, can be proved by nothing. It's allegations without any background. These are accusations that harm our country and our country's economic relations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Harm Ostmafia Contacts!]] If you mention a photo on which Mr National Council President Fischer is shown with someone who was here in Parliament during a state visit as a companion, then the question must be asked: Is there not also photos of foreign visits in your series, of foreign contacts that last for years? Can you put your hand in the fire for any of these contacts you have abroad or here in Austria? Can you guarantee that sometime someone who is pictured in the photos was not involved in any criminal matter? – So simple, ladies and gentlemen, you can't do it! I remember – I think it was in the years 1991/92 – that your party observer Dr. Haider just started visiting the East, for example in Moscow. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But no Mafia!]] - You don't know who you talked to. There are only a few visits known. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] But you have also gone this way. They were much earlier than others in Moscow and tried to establish contacts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the table with it! On the table!]] They were there. I wonder how it is with your Eastern visits, if there are no photos of it. I'm sure that'll be the case, too. Therefore, once again: Your urgent question today has only one reason, namely to distract you from your own problems, because the Minister of the Interior, his officials and all of us who have passed these laws have done an incredibly great deal in recent years to combat organized crime. Finally, the whole reform of the Austrian federal army is also crucial to the fact that in the fight against organised crime a number of things have gone further, namely: I would like to remind you of the new DDR, the service time system with the sector strips, the combination of smaller army services with larger, technical equipment and enhanced international cooperation. In addition, in a few days – I think, on 1st. October – the Europol Office will be opened in The Hague, which is a very important institution to combat organised crime. It is also important, as Mr Kiss has already mentioned, to attack noise and to focus on the fight against organised crime. In this connection, ladies and gentlemen, you do not need to make urgent requests without the appropriate background. In this respect, the Federal Government and the Interior Ministers with their employees are already on the right track. It is already happening very, very much in this direction to combat organised crime. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't even argue!]] What you wanted here today is to say once again, to distract from your own problems that you undoubtedly have. And there are no small problems you have, but you have to deal with them yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12729	Mr Böhacker has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12754	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Leikam has continued the socio-democratic recovery campaign in Salzburg...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12780	Please, Mr. Deputies! Today is the first day of the sitting. We've all done a different language.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12796	... sued a member of the FPÖ in Salzburg of the data class. - That's not true. The said mandate was legally acquitted in all instances by the accusation of the data clause.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12834	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e12862	He's also rehabilitated. On two pages in the Salzburger "Kronen Zeitung" on the weekend, I think, you were told. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a complicated paper! She's not reading the Schwarzenberger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mr Leikam's comments, which have meant that there is so much to be done. I have the EDOK report here. [[The speaker shall keep the report up to date.]] This report draws the conclusion – Mr Leikam, I ask you to be careful – that: Since implementation of the required improvements does not seem realistic in the foreseeable future, further increases in the activities of the Russian Mafia in Austria must be expected. - Quote. That's how your security policy looks! They come to the speaker's desk and praise it on the green clover, although the actual report of the Ministry of the Interior speaks a completely different language. And Mr Löschnak came out of here and said: There's a trial, and some guy said something. – Well, that is what the Court’s communication refers to as follows: Reportedly attempts at extortion by a SP member, godfather meeting in Vienna, contacts with politicians, said in the Sanikidse process. It is thus informed by the officials about Sanikidses' contacts with Austrian politicians; it is also informed that not only the ABV – says: Mr Bausbek, Parade-SPÖ construction contractors in Eastern Europe – was extolled by the Mafia, but also the construction group Maculan-Holding, and it is also announced that EDOK has warned the people of public life: We see in such contacts – it is said – Austrian politicians with people who are our insights into Mafiapats, the danger of the migration of Austrian society. The position of the Freedom Party is now that, in view of the fact that it is said in a court procedure, the President of the National Council met in the context of the Austrian-Russian society with Mafiapats, that is, that Mafiapats from this environment are already in parliamentary circles – one of them, namely that famous Mr Sanikidse, was murdered some time ago – have the right to ask the President in Parliament: Mr. President, what's going on? Do you deal with these people? Is there, as the official says, the danger of a migration of our democracy? This is parliamentary control in the classical sense! This has nothing to do with insulting SPÖ, but with Enlightenment so that Austria is not undermined by subversive elements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Have you taken note of the President's reply? Yes or no?]] I only have a few minutes of speaking time. I told you that we received the President's letter. But we would have liked to talk about it here in Parliament too. Letters... [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Isn't that enough for you?]] No, that's not enough for me! That is absolutely not enough for me, as those officials – and I am now going to the second point – have said that, under the leadership of a high-ranking UNIDO diplomat, a sponsoring meeting of the Russian Mafiosi was held in Vienna and this diplomat is still in office today, despite the intervention of political authorities. In other words, diplomatic relations, which the President also holds, are sometimes used to organize meetings of Mafiapats. This has been said by this official, and we want to stop it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Löschnak.]] Mr Löschnak! Thirdly, this official says that the Patenvereinigung in Vienna has visited a company that has the right to export nuclear materials from Russia. Summary: Mafia meetings, diplomatic circles, involvement of Austrian politicians, export permits for nuclear transfers through Austria – please, that’s all! I believe that we cannot easily move on to the agenda on this issue. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An Austrian company, a federal company, is involved!]] In that company which is allowed to carry out nuclear transports, that is nuclear transports, to smuggle nuclear material or – possibly legally – transport, ÖIAG is also involved: its own state holding company. [[Abg. Arbitrators: To smuggle, do they also have permission?]] Is that not a reason to talk in Parliament about what our state-owned companies in the Mafia region have lost? That is why we have addressed these urgent questions to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, in the report of the EDOK, which the Minister of the Interior will probably know, under "Georgian groups": This group has been established in Vienna for several years. It is mainly Jewish immigrants who operate smaller import/export companies in Vienna. The minimum business activities of these companies face considerable assets, which suggests that these values are achieved by criminal means. They are involved in drug trafficking, counterfeiting, extortion and cigarette and alcohol smuggling procedures. In Austria, Georgian organised crime has several subgroups, mainly money laundering, fraud, money extortion, drug trafficking, car thefts, car shifts, human trafficking as well as some minor offences. As a basis for the investigations of the police, the results of the survey, in particular the extortion attempt at the disadvantage of Maculan-Holding, the protection press at the disadvantage of ABV and other companies, which I do not want to mention now. These two companies, ABV and Maculan, had political contacts. With the latter, we know the connection with the SPÖ business spokesman Heindl – that is undisputed – but we also know that the ABV is the company of Mr Bausbek, for whose hotel projects in the East the entire Republic is liable. It is the master builder in Vienna, who has received the largest support from the East Milliard, who is liable for the Austrian banks and for whom the Austrian taxpayer has taken over the guarantees. And who stands, in turn, on pictures clearly visible, at opening celebrations of such a building in Tbilisi next to Mr. Altbundeskanzler Vranitzky? – Mr Sanikidse, the great Mafiapate of the Georgian Mafia! Ladies and gentlemen! You cannot therefore explain to us that there is no basic connection with the leaders of social democracy. If you want to clarify this without delay, please agree to the request for an investigation committee, so it would be clear that you have nothing to hide. We could then talk about these things in detail, and also ask what is true of this EDOK report, which is penable, which company interconnected in this area. What is true of the connections between Maculans and the Mafia and Mr Pavlov of the Mafia and Mr Heindl, when a protocol of the Vienna State Police says – I quote literally – that: Pavlov has best contacts with member of the National Council Dr. Kurt Heindl (SPÖ), who has been working as Supervisory Board in East Business for Hofman & Maculan since 1981. Pavlov has similar contacts with Alexander Maculan himself. Remarkably, Dr. Kurt Heindl (severely indebted) – the Vienna State Police Department writes in her protocol that Heindl is heavily indebted and has Mafia contacts! – via an Ebenseer Betonwerke AG is associated with the holding of the same name from the Maculan Group. This holding is also to be attributed to the company complex in which Linz lawyer Dr. Gerhard Wildmoser (ÖVP) is anchored. This is related to the Mitropa, owned by Karl Blecha, in connection with the ACT, which in turn is suspected of having engaged in illegal arms trafficking with ex-Yugoslavia. – These statements are contained in a protocol of the Vienna Security Directorate, which is not our invention. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The President did not want me to read it!]] I repeat: No one underlies Mr Heindl that this is all right, but if state bodies, i.e. your officials, Mr Minister, your survey departments, find that – and this report comes from your EDOK – a working opposition must at least ask what is going on in the government and who is involved in it, and demand that the cards be put on the table. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Reply to the report that the EDOK, your special department, has penablely collected! This is the taxing material, not the theses of the FPÖ! [[The speaker points to the EDOK report he has quoted]] If you are dealing with official documents, then we do not need to polemise in this House, but then we will ensure that there is no migration through unsafe and mafia forces.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13031	The motion for a resolution that has been read is properly signed and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Heindl. The remaining speaking time of the SPÖ Group is 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13065	Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I am very concerned about what my person is doing about this discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's all in this record!]] This is not an accusation, Mr Jörg Haider, I can only say that I am affected, and may briefly say why. As a young diplomatic official, I had a lot to do abroad. Even then, long before the fall of the Berlin Wall, in the 1960s, we were taught to pay attention. During my professional life, I became a member of the management of a large company and was the closest employee of the company owner. At the time, I had the accident of having to experience that person's being abducted. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We know!]] I was inadvertently the respondent of the kidnappers because they knew Kurt Heindl was the closest employee of this company owner. To experience such eight days, I don't wish anyone! So you can think that a person, who has experienced something like this, and in the course of a career change for foreign business – but not in the operational business, but in a holding company, namely the Maculan Group, which, as I believe, had over 100 companies at the height of its development, is responsible, is particularly cautious about works. I have already been personally affected, and I have also known how careful one must be in business contacts and activities in the field of COMECON. You can really believe that. That is why I have spoken, because those who know me personally know what great value I place on my personal integrity and that before I have met or meet anyone – for I still have to do there today – I try to tell myself exactly whether there is a danger. But I've never called the EDOK, but always start other attempts to be sure. Mr Krüger! Whether you believe this or not, of course, is ultimately when companies from Austria, Germany or Slovakia worked for the Maculan Group and I had talks with the managing directors or with the project managers, when the topic of an extortion was not as far as I was informed at the time, the attempt has been made to ensure that one does not need protection and so on. Our local colleagues... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That has been transferred! 3 percent have been transferred!]] No, whether you believe it or not, it was! Our local colleagues have said that we do not need it. I was in the conversation twice by the colleague who was being addressed. I – believe me that, I can only point to my credibility – heard the name Sanikidse for the first time in my life when he was killed. It has not talked to me personally – Kurt Heindl – about this topic. That's why I was surprised when I heard that. I do not want to interpret facts at all now because I have acted. Mr Stadler! When you spoke about this real estate agent in May at a press conference, I wondered if my brain was not working anymore, because I have never had to deal with a real estate agent, I do not know a Mr Pavlov. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] So what did I do? – I called the State Police and asked for information. Whether I'm in contact with someone or not, I know what's in any act, I don't know. At the state police, I was told that I have the right to know from the authority whether an act exists about me or not under the mandatory information law. I had the documents faxed and now I spoke to you to clarify this matter. A day after you quoted this at a press conference – I think – I wrote to the state police: "Dear gentlemen! Deputies Mag. Stadler spoke yesterday at a press conference about the relationship I need for explanation with a Bulgarian real estate agent named Petre Pavlov and refers to a Stapo-Dossier. Since a Bulgarian real estate agent Petre Pavlov is not known to me and I am surprised that there should be a Stapo-Dossier about me, I am looking, in accordance with the mandatory law, for notification of any existing state police claims." The answer came a few days later. I can make it clear to the public that I am talking about it for the first time. I have informed the three Presidents, including President Brauneder, of the content of the letter. So the answer is: "Dear Dr. Heindl! With reference to your written request of 20.5.1998 concerning information on state police claims, the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, in accordance with § 62 Security Police Act, informs you both for its own and for the area of the Federal Police Directorate, Vienna, which is responsible for your residence: For the The Federal Ministry of the Interior has not identified or processed any data subject to the obligation to provide information. In the area of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna there are prefaces." – It says inside that I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so pointless things of the past. That's to say, they told me... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Vienna Security Office!]] I wanted some information. Who else than the state police should I ask? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Minister should ask the security office!]] I ask you – I have also informed the three Presidents – to take note of this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Make a request to the security office!]] That's all I wanted. Because I value my personal integrity. Since I continue to work in eastern countries and just because I have a certain experience, I am, you can believe me, especially careful. I can tell you, it's not true, even if it's in one act or the other, the extortion. Thank God I have not been confronted with an extortion. Finally, I should like to say the following, in general and not specifically, about me: We are all happy, even companies from other countries, if we can operate business in the East – whether these are people from the Deutsche Bank or Chase Manhattan. It has done a lot in Moscow and Kiev over the last ten years. The fact that something happens to one person or another in contacts must be approved. I can only say to myself that nothing has yet happened to me in this respect – I have to knock on wood. However, there is no guarantee that one who works there will never have to deal with anyone from these circles. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That doesn't apply to Vranckky, unfortunately!]] I was concerned to make it clear that everything that anyone says about me in this direction does not correspond to the facts. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13187	Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I try, as far as possible, to clarify and continue to work in my capacity as Minister of the Interior for the greatest possible transparency and all information, no matter from which political side they are applied to me, and I do so with great care. I also have, quite openly, no fear of contact with information coming from the area of the Freedom Party, because I believe that it is the task of, among other things, the Ministry of the Interior to clarify and eliminate abuses if they exist. That is why I have taken very seriously the press conference held by Mr Stadler in mid-May of this year, especially because of the fact that there were a number of accusations that were in no way known to me as Minister of the Interior and about which I naturally wanted all the necessary information. I would like to address only those Causas who have just been negotiated, namely the alleged contact of Mr Heindl with Mr Pavlov. I have commissioned both the Vienna Police Department and Group C, to give me information about this. The answer I received on 19 May. In May, literally: "With regard to the Bulgarian national Petre P. mentioned above, both here" (i.e. in Group C) "as well as at the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, Section I, only files about a Pavlov Petre, born 3.9.1950, are known to Bulgarian citizens, who do not refer to Ukrainian intelligence or to Dr. Kurt Heindl." ==References====External links== May be. In addition, I say so very openly, Dr. Heindl asked if there was such a contact. He has also personally disputed this contact and said that he does not know Mr Pavlov. I will also ask all the departments of the Vienna police in writing whether there are such contacts, and I will allow myself to inform the five clubmen and the Parliament Bureau of the answer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13244	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades concerning East Mafia contacts. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution give a sign of this. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13284	We now proceed to the treatment of the short debate. This short debate concerns the request by Mr Hans Helmut Moser, the Committee on the Interior to report on Amendment No 713/A concerning the Waffen Act, a period of time until 6. ==References== After the end of the debate, the vote on the request for a deadline will be taken. We're going into the consultations. The first speaker, Mr Moser, has a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13314	Mr President. High house! ==References====External links== In January of this year, a motion for a resolution which had the substance to amend the arms law in force, i.e. the Arms Act 1996, in so far as the weapons instruments issued before the entry into force of this Arms Act were to lose their validity until the end of 1999 and, consequently, the validity of the weapons documents would be limited to five years. As has been said, this motion for a resolution was put to the vote on 22 February. I brought in those of me. ==References== The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I note with great regret that, in the meantime, more than half a year has passed and there has still been no way of consulting these two requests, Mr President, in the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Leikam: I ask you to forgive me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even though Mr Leikam is now asking for forgiveness: There is a need for action. This issue is a current political issue, and we cannot and must not shut down the demands, the partially justified demands of the public. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though in 1996 we passed a arms law which became legal in July 1997 and has been in force since then, even if only a short time has passed since then, I believe that we have the responsibility to observe the respective legal regulations on a regular basis and, if necessary, to provide for amendments. I therefore appeal to the two government parties, first and foremost to the chairmen of the Committee on the Interior, that he may be able to assert that these two requests are on the agenda and that we can start the discussion. I appeal to the Austrian People's Party, to its clubman and to colleagues Kiss for them to end the blockade in a very important question, as I believe, on a question which should also be a question of conscience for all Members. It is not fair to call for this to happen and to put the representatives of the two government parties under curate. It would be necessary on this issue and it would make sense to remove the force of club which these two groups have obvious, so that the Members can freely accept, according to their conscience, the respective amendments, amendments, or reject them. That's what we're expecting. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said: There is a need for action, changes, additions are necessary. We Liberals have requested two additions: first of all, a supplement to § 8 on reliability. It is necessary to clarify the question of liability, i.e. the question of compensation for damage caused by the misuse or the use of firearms. This system of liability is lacking in the Weapons Act, and I believe that such a liability regime would have an important preventive effect, having an effect in ensuring that the protection of weapons would be more secure, that greater attention should also be paid to the and greater caution in dealing with arms. This concerns mainly the adults. Moreover, access for young people to the weapon should be restricted and restricted. I therefore believe that it is necessary to regulate this question of liability clearly and clearly. The second amendment concerns the validity of the existing weapons documents. The current situation is such that there are a large number of weapons documents which have still been issued on the basis of the old arms law, in other words, under completely different conditions than they currently exist. I believe that this different legal status is not really satisfactory and it would be useful if all weapons documents were to be issued in accordance with the same principles and directives and, therefore, the weapons would be distributed to the households to whom they would be distributed or awarded under the same conditions. It makes sense, however, to limit the validity of the weapons documents already issued, to expire at the end of 1999, and to limit the validity of the documents generally to five years. Why does this make sense? – During this time, much can happen. At this time, the conditions under which a weapon document has been issued may change, for example because of personal change or because of the general situation. It would therefore be necessary, for example, to limit the validity and extend it after expiry in the case of passports or driving licences. This should also be necessary for weapons, and the same rules should apply. I therefore believe that these two amendments could make a very essential step towards restricting access to arms and substantially improving the situation which is currently absolutely unsatisfactory. It is not about pronouncing a total ban on arms, because that would not be manageable, it would not be enforceable. It would be more necessary, especially in the grey zone, for this to be a common effort. And it does not, therefore, make any abusive developments to come. The following must therefore be our objective: to drastically limit access to arms, to have as few weapons as possible in households, but still to have as many weapons as it is necessary to comply with the safety needs of the population. Therefore, my last appeal: I would ask the two government parties to consult these amendments at the next meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and to give our request an approval so that no later than 6. A report can be submitted to the National Council on October. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13359	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He and the following speakers are subject to a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13380	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You're supposed to hear the appeal. Mr Moser called on the House to step up its work on the issue of arms law. I can say one thing in advance: Next week, as he knows, a meeting of the Committee on the Interior will take place, and we will, if possible, put these issues on the agenda. Mr Moser! I agree with you in two observations. First: You have said that the discussion on a strengthening of the arms law is a current political issue. I would even like to reinforce this statement: It is a more than up-to-date, a highly topical, a brilliant topic. They have also said that there are demands and expectations on the part of the population. I also agree with you on this point. The basic condition, however, which exists in this debate, is that we conduct it openly and correctly. This does not mean that I accuse you or someone else consciously take hold of you, but I do not think it is appropriate for the subject to be mixed permanently. Therefore, I would like to make the following clear: It is not a question of attacking the hunters in any way. It is not a question of restricting the sportsmen in the exercise of their sport. Nor is it a question of bringing any association of shooters into existence, but it is a question of dramatically reducing the level of arms in private households, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of this, a common effort is very much required. It makes no sense if we try in any way to present beautiful numbers. It makes no sense to speak out only for increased control, because the fact is that within the last few years the image of our society has changed considerably. There is a far higher degree of violence. We have a changed form of conflict management, and it is clear that the legislator cannot shut down these changes – thanks many times. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Close!]] It is therefore our common effort to bring about a change in the field of arms law. [[Abg. Wabl: Mandatory!]] But one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Any debate on the arms law, any change, will be distorted from the moment we talk about the illegal possession of weapons and believe, because of a change in the arms law, that we will get the illegal possession of weapons. It's not like that. There are other instruments to be grasped. We can't mix things from the material. But now come back to this deadline request: We will not vote for this motion, Mr Moser. We will, however, be dealing with this matter at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior next week – which should be clearly and clearly held. Whatever the result is of good ideas to make progress in the matter, we are very willing to take up. I hope that all the political groups in this House will take part in this debate. The aim is not to promote populism towards a group, but to promote greater protection for the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13435	I call Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13464	Mr President. High house! The position of the Austrian People's Party to the Waffengesetz is clear and straightforward for many years. [[Abg. Wabl: Is catastrophic!]] We have always expressed this opinion free of any temptation. The arms law currently in force is modern, strict and goes far beyond EU standards in many criteria. With this arms law, we have created a law that can be seen across Europe. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But the law needs a change!]] As an Austrian People's Party to this law, and I expressly say so, we urge the responsible Minister of the Interior to finally implement this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So that in spite of all possible attempts at oblivion, I can help with the leaps: When we were on the 12th. In December 1996 this arms law was passed, by the way, with the voices of all socialists – apologies – all the Social Democrats, all Greens and the ÖVP, a two-year discussion phase ended, a discussion phase during which we had international and national experts in Hearings here in Parliament in order to create a good law as a succus. [[Abg. Saviour: Social Democrats!]] I can still remember the shawls that were sunk from this speaker's mouth in this House at the time. For example, shawls from the greens: I still have in my ears the statements of Mr. Anschober – he is no longer in Parliament, unfortunately – when he said: Finally, an interior minister, this Caspar One, who created such a revolutionary, epochal law, we agree with enthusiasm and passion. – It was the Social Democrats who, of course, had their Caspar To one who kept the bar and said: So now we are implementing this law accordingly. We from the ÖVP had no reason not to be a coalition partner on this matter. We just said one thing: Minister of the Interior, now you have the task of implementing this law. We write after it's 1st. Since September 1998, the Caspar One, Karl Schlögl, has still not implemented this law. It is still he who, in the broad discussions about this law, calls for a stronger arms law – although the current law has not even been tested in practice, its results are not even on the table. And a new law is being called for again. I have a serious suspicion at all in this discussion, which impels me because I constantly ask a simple, simple question in the conversations with those who come to me. I ask, for example, journalists, initiators of various movements, but also citizens who demand a stronger arms law: Has You read this arms law at all? [[Abg. Son of a bitch, can they do that?]] Do you know the intentions of this law? Do you know all that has been incorporated into this arms law in revolutionary new ones? – I hear again and again a defamatory, open answer: No, I've never read it, but I'm for a sharper arms law. [[Abg. Leikam: We also have to take in meteorites!]] You have to explain this to me personally not to be understood by the thought. [[Abg. Swimmling: You gave yourself a new outfit, but still have the old arguments!]] That is why I say clearly and clearly: The Liberals' request for this deadline proposal is rejected by the EIA today. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Why?]] By the way, Mrs Klubobfrau Heide Schmidt also said at yesterday's press conference – I quote from the APA – that suddenly the liberals of that group, which has so far been except for any austere argument, namely the hunters and shooters, encounter in a form that we cannot understand at all. You have said that no more sacrosan now – provided that the quote in the APA is true. So this group should not even be excluded again. We feel where the way is going. We are accountable, we have advocated this law, we want this law to be implemented, and we urge the Minister of the Interior to implement it accordingly, because then the best guarantee is given that the Weapons Act will be implemented to the satisfaction of those who have to execute it, whether it is the Weapons Authority, whether it is the executive officials, and those who own a weapon document and thus weapons.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13586	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13607	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I cannot get your request, Mr Moser, on and on its own very little and your request for a deadline. In my opinion, there is no need at all to change the arms law and no need to discuss it so urgently now. If this is the case here by my colleague. As far as I am concerned, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. The media push the whole thing, and people are told that by changing the arms law, the aggressions would actually end with violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] That's not true at all. They will probably not prevent any violent crime by intensifying the arms law. I think you have to be clear about that. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to Why don't you try to change the spirit of conflict in society? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] If you are trying to reduce aggression, try to address these social problems which you have said have been so serious in recent times! That would be far more important than changing the arms law. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Make a contribution to this!]] There are also possibilities for this, with, for example, also the demand of the ÖVP. Change the violent representation in the media, try that! Then you will also be in the households in which families prevent violence, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. They say that higher protection for the population is to come about with a change in the arms law. – It is absurd to accept such a thing at all. I believe that a change in the arms law will not change the crime figures. [[Abg. Sweamlein: You said the same thing before the 0.5 promille debate!]] Mr Kiss! I have heard today the confirmation of your previous attitude. I only hope that you will pass through this line. I hope that you will not fall by now, I hope that you will not run after the SPÖ, but that you will maintain your own position. But I'm really curious about how long you're going to keep your line. [[Abg. Leikam: The Tyrolean prosecutor would still be alive, Mrs. Colleague!]] I would also like to say something about the Liberal Forum's request: I find your whole request absurd. For example, they require stricter liability conditions. In fact, all the damage caused by the use of weapons is covered by the ABGB. The general rules of liability are sufficient, and they are actually applied in order to compensate for the damage. What you want to introduce there is already. This is your contribution to the discussion, to demand something that is already present. To your last paragraph 16a: In reality, this is what you want to do in a profound way in the area of constitutional rights. They just want to put the previous arms law on the head. They speak of the liberals without interruption of the importance of being rightful to comply with constitutional rights. In principle, this is something very essential – for us too – but with a paragraph you want to reverse the arms law, which we made even worse two years ago. I'd like to say something to you: The old-age property will be controlled anyway, and there are the transitional provisions according to which old-age owners will also be checked, so all that you require has already been implemented. Another thing: two years ago, in accordance with the stricter EU directives, the arms law was passed here in Parliament – against the votes of the liberals, because we are in favour of a liberal arms law. One should really observe quite well how the new strict arms law affects. But you don't. They demand because some terrible crime is committed, which cannot be prevented, immediately hysterically, a new law. As I said, you always believe that people can be changed by law. That's just not true. You're quelling the population something you can't realize. That is why we are opposed not only to your proposals concerning a new arms law, but also to your proposal for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13681	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13702	Mr President. High house! The deadline proposal therefore seems very important to us, because until recently we had the impression that everyone felt that the debate on the need to improve the arms law should be conducted as soon as possible. The intention of the deadline proposal is to allow this debate, however the vote may take place, to be opened and to enable the committee responsible to deal with this matter by setting a deadline. I also think that those who have advocated a generous release of firearms should be able to take the view that the debate should be held quickly and not be postponed to the long bank. But what is happening to the specific proposal, I must say that I cannot understand the excitement, especially that of Mr Kiss. Because you have greatly praised the arms law, which has just been passed recently. Let's take this seriously. Then you should be glad if there is an application to the effect that this arms law will also apply to weapons possessors issued prior to the entry into force of this arms law. The second point of this request, namely that there should be only more temporary weapons ownership documents, passports or the like, in the future, does not mean that anyone who has such a document will be prompted by the authority for a maximum period of five years to consider whether or not to apply for an extension. This is a revolving recall action of self-confidence. If that is not right for you, Mr Kiss, and at the same time you complain of violence in the family, I ask you how you want to carry out a regular review of people, if not in the form of the fact that weapons owners lose their effectiveness after five years. This means nothing more than checking reliability every five years. Those who are reliable will be able to take up this regular review and do not have to worry. But people who have become conspicuous for some reason, for example, because they have been excluded from their shooter associations, would have no chance of maintaining a possession of weapons in such a new arrangement, even if they were covered by the silence of the local community, even though they were conspicuous. Violent acts will by no means prevent you from using the arms law of this world, for if someone actually wants to be violent, then he is restricted by a sharp law only in the choice of his means. It would be good if he were limited, but he still has funds at his disposal. I therefore believe that the debate should not be conducted in a hypocritical manner. Mr Kiss! They meant that my clubwoman said they didn't think of hunters and sportsmen as sacrosan. To that I must reply: I don't think they're sakrosanct either. Because only the property of being a hunter does not yet speak sacredly and only the property of being sportsmen, not at all. He may one day be Olympic winner, but not sacrosan. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The mere membership of a profession is not yet per se legitimation in terms of reliability. In other words, it is absolutely reasonable for these people to be under the regime of the Waffengesetz. In addition: Genuine hunters are actually very qualified people and need to prove some qualifications before they get a hunting license. With these we probably have no problems at all. If one of those who is still hunters should be in a hurry, then it's tragic, but then we couldn't stop that. A final sentence on your own request: If we want liberals to introduce liability provisions which are modelled on the holding of car owners for weapons owners, then there is good reason. We believe that if someone keeps his weapons carelessly, he should be liable for this carelessness without guilt. Mr Kiss! Whoever is against such liability is unbelievable in the claim that weapons should be handled carefully. For anyone with weapons, if he already has any, needs not be afraid of this liability. But if someone were to violate this new requirement, at least in addition to the administrative punishment that he might have, carry the full weight of compensation for damage. And this is known to have more dissuasive effect than some other ban. If you take yourself seriously, then you agree to this deadline proposal – you, because then you have the matter quickly off the table, and you, because you can finally debate the arms law! But probably you won't want to because the application comes from the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13764	It is still the speech of Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You are the last speaker in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13785	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Greens will agree to the Liberal Forum's request for deadlines, for reasons of principle. I think it unbearable for applications to be submitted by the opposition in the National Council, but then nothing will happen for months. It is always the same procedure: We are waiting for the business time limit, and then perhaps we are trying to start the parliamentary process. So much for the basic. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, I must say that, although the Liberal Forum's proposal deals with arms law in substance, it does not at all correspond to the ideas of the Greens regarding a change in the arms law. We have already received two motions for deadlines on this subject, namely the Greens' motion for a resolution, on 11 November. In December 1997, our ideas on the amendment of the Waffengesetz were formulated. These are the ones that have now been taken over by the Federal Minister for the Interior almost 1 : 1 – I am very pleased about that too. Only, ladies and gentlemen, there is no initiative by the Federal Minister for the Interior. It's just a little bit if you just hear something on the show "Help TV" before 700,000 viewers. For when it comes to actually launching a parliamentary or governmental process, then nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very sacrosanct, but not the force of clubs or the pressure of coalition. This, ladies and gentlemen, is totally unsacrosanct. That is why I think it is a simple excuse from the Federal Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for internal security, when he says: I can't do anything because they won't let me. - That's it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very serious issue, and not only the people, the citizens who are affected by murders committed by firearms – most of the murders committed in Austria with legal firearms – are interested in a change, but the Austrian population as a whole wishes this change. The desire to look like this has been deposited for a long time. There are concrete ideas on the part of the Greens: a general ban on arms, i.e. a general ban on the acquisition, import, possession and, of course, the management of firearms. That's what's needed now. Of course, I am now saying this – in order to live up to reality as well – with exceptions. And we have made these exceptions clear. There are exceptions – I am opposed to the clubwoman of the Liberal Forum – for members of traditional shooter associations. These should then be granted exceptions when their weapons, their firearms are secured in the club premises. No shooter of this republic needs a gun at home, but if he put it in his club, I say: Why not?- Oh, my God! – The same applies to sportsmen. Sportsmen should be allowed to own weapons under the Waffengesetz, provided they are of course also in possession of a Waffenpass, because sportsmen also need a Waffenpass. But each weapon only if they are secured at the shooting sites in which they exercise their sport. The third point concerns those who wear weapons on a professional basis, namely employees of companies who employ protective and security personnel. But there is the same as with the shooters and sportsmen: do not keep at home in the night box, but leave secure after work. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, the following concerns are very important: Hunters should be allowed to have two long weapons, provided they are in possession of a weapon passport. No one is against hunters, no one is against shooters – shooters are not known to me – and not against sportsmen, ladies and gentlemen! But of course these measures should be linked to improvements in the passport of arms – including for these people. That's what's in demand now. Time-limit, time-limit – the Liberals' request does not include enough. It is now necessary to put a request on the table so that this change can finally be discussed in Parliament and, consequently, decided.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13834	There is no more word message for this. I'll close the debate. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting on the request to the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on Amendment No 713/A by Mr Hans Helmut Moser and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Arms Act in 1996, a deadline until 6. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-first Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-125/1393 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13877	We are now continuing on the agenda and coming to the 2nd place. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mrs Hlavac as the first speaker. They want a 15-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13904	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are again discussing a report from the Public Prosecutor's Office on their experience in consulting and information activities in 1997. This report is once again a very valuable support for us. He explains the problems that may arise and where people feel that they are being treated unjustly by the state, by the authorities. I think that this is very important for us, both as support for our control activity towards the authorities and as feedback for us, for our own parliamentary activity and for our legislative activity. It is also sometimes, at the best of will, that we adopt laws which should help and improve a group of people, but which then prove to be not entirely precise, in which it is necessary to re-adjust, and then the suggestions of the People's Procuratorate are very valuable to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is especially valuable for those people who are struggling with difficult legislative proposals, with long and difficult administrative routes, to find support in the public prosecutorry that they have someone who expresses their concerns. This is especially important for those people who cannot do this as well as we, who are constantly dealing with social problems, difficult laws, with difficult regulations. I understand very well that Mrs Volksanwälter Messner also speaks again and again of the problem that the State's services can only be obtained through a request. Because sometimes there are people who are missing the information and who then often make a request too late. It has achieved that, in some areas, time-limits have been made possible and that improvements have been made. But I think there are times and again situations in which we need to consider whether it is possible and necessary to support people who are somewhat helpless, who are struggling with the authorities, and to improve their starting point in achieving benefits. I accept the report that the frequency of complaints in the individual Länder is very different. Especially in Vienna, the frequency of complaints is the highest in terms of population, in the far west of the Federal Republic of Germany it is the lowest. Now I do not assume that in Vienna more people think that they have to complain, or that the Viennans are more opposed to actual or supposed maladministrations. I could imagine that this is also related to the regional proximity to the People's Procuratorate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – Yes, but it’s also about federal questions. I have the impression – I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate – that there may be a certain geographical problem, so that people who live further away – even if there is a proverb, even if there is the possibility of contact by telephone and letter – have a barrier to overcome. Do you think there are ways to reduce this problem? . We should be careful to ensure that the possibility of addressing the public prosecutors is available to the same extent everywhere. They also address the development of the People's Procuratorate in your report. We have only set up a subcommittee a few days ago to deal with applications for greater rights and opportunities for the public prosecutors. Since the public prosecutorship is our body, it is in our interest – in our greatest interest as Parliament – that this institution also works very well. I am therefore very much in favour of discussing the various proposals and looking at them in an overall context with the various institutions. For it is not a question of creating double structures, parallel structures, dual competences, but of ensuring that citizens' opportunities to turn to Parliament and to Parliament's institutions are guaranteed in an optimal way. There are various wishes, including those of the members of the public prosecutor's office, for the right to come to the committees of the National Council. I believe that it would not be a problem at all to invite the lawyers to the committees, and I do not think that we here in Parliament can benefit too little from this opportunity, which already exists. I myself, as committee chairman, would at least consider whether there are situations in which it would be useful to invite the lawyers and question why they come to a certain conclusion, why they think there should be reforms. So I think it is very important for us to respect the rights of the public prosecutors. The People's Procuratorate is a valuable instrument of Parliament. It has proved to be a very important unbureaucratic contact with the population, and the People's Procuratorate also enjoys the trust of the population – you can see clearly. I therefore believe that it is necessary not only to deal with the findings contained in this report and also in the other years' reports in the Constitutional Committee, but also that each of them should deal with these proposals in terms of content in its own specialist committees. Ladies and gentlemen! The public prosecutorship, as I have already said, is facing complaints from the people of our institution, our instrument. Our task is to make the most of this. The People's Lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt are well-known for their commitment and also for their genuine willingness to cooperate with us. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e13987	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! ==References== Report of the People's Procuratorate not only presents the documentation of a valuable work, but also gives us insight into the lives of the citizens and society in our communities, simply: into the lives of the people together. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to you, ladies and gentlemen, for your work on behalf of our club – but not only to you, but also to your employees, who do excellent work in the process of resolving all these problems. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The report you are presenting to us today is not only very comprehensive but also very informative and effective. One can read from these things that one might not think of otherwise in political work. However, what I personally regret is the fact that, although this report is presented to Parliament – the People's Procuratorate is an institution of the National Council; the Federal Council has been dealing with this work since the last GO-Novelle – but this report finds far too little attention to the media, even in the population as a whole. It is a fact that you only go to the public prosecutor's office if you press the shoe, so to speak, only if there are serious problems somewhere. In the 1997 report, more than 10,000 citizens were with you by the People's Procuratorate; some 3,740 examinations have been initiated. If one compares this with the year 1996, it is seen that what the number of examination procedures is going to be, a decrease is to be observed, of course, and cannot be considered negative from the outset. Rather, it is likely that much has already changed as a result of the activities of the Public Procuratorate. In any event, it can be found that the main areas of your activity concern health and social matters, namely those areas that ultimately affect every citizen in any way. Although social security schemes have been enormously forced by their advisory activity in recent years, there are therefore a number of open questions that can be read in this report, which are really trying to reach the citizens as close as possible to the insured person as possible. In this context, I would like to refer, for example, to the problems relating to the management of the labour market, something which is very evident in this report. I would also refer to problems in the field of pensions, and also to the fact that social rights change laws of course also bring about changes in the conditions of entitlement. You, Mrs. Volksanwalt, Mrs. Hofratin Mag. Messner, I would like to say that I am really pleased that you have shown the problem of compensation recipients several times and delivered an opinion on it, in the direction that there is a real need for action in this regard. It is not a matter of explaining here that this has always been the case. While it is clear that we are on the top of social law in the field of services, it is also true that we need to give greater importance to this people in the future, especially those people who are affected by accounting rules, and that is at least 72 000 citizens. I mean, that's a number you have to think about. In your report, you have also raised a number of questions about exemption from fees. In this respect, I believe, a fundamental debate would be necessary. I do not think it would be easy to reach small liberation elements where the effort is often greater than the success – and then there is a lot of annoyance behind it. It is interesting, in my view, that the number of audit procedures in the field of state and local administration is falling significantly. The VA report shows that there is a great deal of information in the field of civil law. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, have dealt with all these questions in a variety of ways. For me personally, however, it is strange that 67 per cent of all these civil law issues that you have not been able to deal with concern for family law. It is clear from this that there is a real need for action and advice in this regard. Therefore, in the context of this report, I would like to introduce the proposal, especially for the area just referred to, because life has not just become easier, to install more advisory bodies, namely on-the-spot advisory services, advice centres where the citizen can really go, because we need to know: There is probably the possibility to get free information from courts or lawyers, only the inhibitory threshold of many people to go there is often very large. And that's also the reason why so many people finally come to you from the People's Procuratorate. So we can, once again, read from this report that there is every need for action in this respect, because the concern for the families must be of great importance to us every day. Complex procedures are uncertain to the citizens, not at all. We also need not only to create new opportunities, but a new consciousness must ultimately be based on this whole development. I should now like to point out to you that you will only be able to carry out your audit and advisory activity comprehensively if you are given the opportunity to do so. . I know you are expecting more cooperation with regard to legislation. I believe that the last subcommittee to be set up offers an opportunity to think about all these questions, of course also about the audit activity in the Federal Government's establishments. The citizen does not understand this very often. He says that earlier all this was possible, now the operation is distributed, but I have urgent questions that touch me – and no one gives me a satisfactory information. – It should be noted, of course, that we have a completely new legal situation, and that cannot be one thing, just as it used to be, but we must adapt to this new situation. These are thinking tasks that are assigned to us all. In conclusion: It should also be said that it is a good thing to know that the People's Procuratorate not only meets and talks with citizens in the capitals of the country, but also goes to the suburbs and gives people their hands there. I personally have experienced with Mrs. Volksanwalt Ingrid Korosec some such encounters with citizens of which I was deeply impressed. These conversations were conducted directly with the people outside the speaking hours on the open road or in the locals. This is the way citizens like to have advice and where you can really help. I would like to point this out very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have informed us in your report and also at a meeting of the Constitutional Committee that you also have a lot of contact with citizens from eastern and northern neighbouring countries. I think such meetings are very important, as we can help to develop and consolidate the young democracies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Their work is an enrichment for our country, as it optimizes the relationship between administration and citizens, thus perhaps increasing the quality of life for individual, more trust between citizens and the administration of sovereignty. In this sense: thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14102	I now turn to Mr Magnette. Stadler the word. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14123	Mr President. High house! First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the two members of the People's Lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt Schender very much for their work. There is hardly any institution – perhaps the biggest compliment for you – that is so far out of discussion in the political discourse, as is the case with the People's Procuratorate. This institution has proved its worth; it is accepted and accepted by the public. The citizen is grateful for a complaint body, as it represents the People's Procuratorate, whether as a federal or as a national public prosecutor, as is the case in Vorarlberg or Tyrol. This institution is appreciated and also used by the public. I believe that the complexity of the relationship between state and citizens, between state power and individual human beings, requires more or less institutions, as they represent the public prosecutors. Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt Schender! I also believe that your institution is safe. The future will have a model character for the developing parliamentary democracies in the countries of the former Eastern Bloc, which is why we should be particularly supportive of foreign contacts that you have – at least to hear in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to speak on two points in your report, which seem to me to be important. First of all, I should like to tell you today that we will set a priority for the future – even in autumn work – in the area of judicial administration. However, with us, it has always been political, regardless of your report, that there has to be a focus on this. Your report shows, in connection with the frequency of complaints, that is, the second largest amount of complaint after the complaints from the Ministry of Social Affairs, that there is a need for action. According to the very well-managed Ministry of Justice of the time, Dr. Ofner, it seems to me that it is now time to take care of the Ministry of Justice again, because there is obviously the frequency of complaints – at least the citizens see it – and there is sometimes a need for action there. – I can only announce that once. There are also some interesting suggestions in the report of the People's Prosecution, which are the reason for us to take care of them. However, I would like to deal with something else, namely the question, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, of how commercial law has developed: now not in favour of economic operators or the Austrian economy. From the point of view of chamber representatives, it may be legitimate to say: We need a commercial law that does not make it difficult for the entrepreneurs of this country to do so. - All right, it may be. But if commercial law, as Mr Volksanwalt Schender said in the Committee, looks at the end of the citizen's journey, namely the citizen as an arrant and neighbor, then this is not very pleasing. This, I believe, is not a development which is good in an advanced rule of law like Austria, which raises the claim to be one. I myself have experienced procedures and can therefore understand what is also set out in the report, as in this division of the procedure – that is, I think "simplified procedure" – as in this "simplified procedure" the rights of the party, the rights of the neighbor and the neighbouring party as a procedural party remain on the way, so that the citizens must be given the impression that they have no more rights. That's, I mean, not a very good development. - That's the one view. The other point of view is that the objective of commercial law novels, namely to achieve corresponding procedural reductions, is not achieved everywhere – despite the poorer position of the arrant and the neighbor as a party – because where administrative practice does not want to, the whole of the novels do not benefit. This also shows, for example, the relationship between the duration of the proceedings in Upper Austria, which has developed well, and the duration of the proceedings in Lower Austria, where the public prosecutor expressly gives rise to the long period of proceedings and sets out by examples how an overlong period of proceedings is justly produced by the authority, where there is a return and things that could be done more quickly. I believe that this is a differentiated view that would help us with the future business regulations. That is why I am now coming to the third area, namely the suggestions of the People's Procuratorate for the future, namely the development of this institution. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is extremely interesting and good if those experiences that have been acquired by our Parliament's three principal administrators with the effects of laws are also brought into committee activity. In the course of the deliberations in the survey and in the subcommittee – there are two requests allocated to the subcommittee concerned – it should also be discussed whether one should follow the suggestion and proposal of the three prosecutors that in the future they could participate in the Committee's deliberations and submit themselves and accept this offer. I believe that this would be good because it brings in expertise; because this expertise is currently broken and it only enters into the reports – without me wanting to underestimate it – which are then read or not, by employees or not. But in the very rarest cases, a novel of a concrete law of the report from the year "snow" is used to explain what consequences a novelle may or may not have. I therefore believe that it would be reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, to take up this offer of the Volksanwälte. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also true that the former President of the People's Procuratorate, Mrs. Volksanwältin Korosec, has done to a daily newspaper that, of course, the People's Procuratorate should also - like the other institution of the National Council, namely the Court of Auditors - have examination skills on those institutions which are now constantly outsourced. In this context, the Committee has already mentioned the following areas – also mentioned in the newspaper report above –: Bundestheater, Bahn, Post, Bundesforeste and so on. There is a certain tendency, a control deficit, not only as regards the relationship between Parliament and the Government, which, of course, also suffers from the right of interconnection under these outsourcings and we Members have less and less control competence, but also as a result of these outsourcings, your control competence and ultimately also that of Parliament suffer if you are unable to carry out controls in these areas in the future. Therefore, I hope that we will request - a request made by my colleagues, Mr Graf - that you have the opportunity to participate in the National Council's committee deliberations and, I would like to say so, without prejudicing the Federal Council, to participate in or to be represented by a qualified staff there, but you will normally be able to participate in them yourself, and that, if legislative measures you propose are not implemented, you will also be able to ask the Government to provide information on why this does not happen. I believe that these are the possibilities that would result in the institution of the People's Procuratorate, which I – once again! – as an institution out of dispute, which, like hardly an institution in the Austrian constitutional structure and also in the day-to-day political debate, has a clear appreciation, taking into account the citizens' concern for an efficient and strong People's Procuratorate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14198	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14219	Mr President. Appreciate members of the People's Procuratorate! High house! I would like to say, first of all, that I still think this institution is a sensible institution, that I still believe that it is doing useful work, although I have the impression that it has lost impact, although I have the impression that it is not taken as seriously by the administration as it once was. But I do not think it makes much sense to question the reasons for this point. In my opinion, however, one of the main reasons is the public work that could still be done on television at the time, but which is no longer possible today – for which reasons always – for what reasons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Schmidt wants to go to television!]] I do not think that this is the only reason – it will probably also lie with others – but I do not see any sense in relevating this circumstance here. I would therefore also like to thank, on behalf of my group, the staff who are responsible for examination in the public prosecutor's office, because I also have the impression that, on the basis of this report, this work is, at least, highly qualified by these employees. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] - That's one. In fact, I do not want to deal with the chapters in any way, because we will refer to them in our parliamentary work. As far as the case representations as well as the legitimate suggestions are concerned, we are – admittedly, we have not seen the extent to which I felt it was useful so far; the report is once again a reminder – our political work also eats from these experiences, and therefore it seems more advisable to me to have the discussion in the respective fields. I have noticed several things, but I only mention a few things because they are also a confirmation of the criticism of the liberals. But they are not only a confirmation of criticism, they are also symptomatic of a certain state in our country. That is why I think these things are worth mentioning. For if the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs has been established on page 44 – and this finding is not the first time; I have known this finding from other areas for ten years: "In view of the concrete experiences that the public prosecutorship has gained in more than 20 years" – here stands 20 years; that is true – "with countless spokes in the federal states and in Vienna, it is disappointing to have people explain that the differentiated and highly specialized legal and administrative state provides legally guaranteed claims only to those who know how to use the system for themselves", that is, nothing but that we have to deal with a two-class society here. There are those who are either able to recognize themselves because of their special knowledge – and it must be special – or who can afford to have someone who explains it to them; and these then come to the enjoyment of the rights to them, not all others. I think this is symptomatic, not only in the field of social affairs, but also in a key issue that we are always talking about, but not in fact implementing the consequences of it. If I say 'we', I mean Parliament, but I believe that the Liberals are least involved in this question, namely the incomprehensibleness and indifference of the legal provisions on the one hand, but on the other hand also in that bureaucratic jug, which is also literally referred to as such in this report. A second point. In connection with the novelle on commercial law, too, we have – and therefore not agreed – that the acceleration of procedures and concentration is primarily at the expense of the arrants. The experience gained by the public prosecutors in their appeals also confirms this. I think it unbearable that we – and some do so in a lobby, which I can no longer, honestly, understand – always orientate on this report and say what it does not contain all the important things, but no consequence is drawn from it. That is what I am referring to you now from the government groups, because you think it is very remarkable even when a popular attorney or a public prosecutor speaks to people on the street. They should draw much more the consequences of the experience of the lawyers in their examination activities and then implement them. You should not only promise what's inside, and perhaps complain about one or another, but you should also try to change it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a kind of alibi action: We have an audit institution where we unload everything and say what "nothing" they are, and that's what's done. This is my impression of the work here in this House. As far as the Ministry of the Interior – and this is also symptomatic – is concerned, it is repeatedly noted that the longer duration of the response is a problem to continue in the examination activity. Something else is found – not only here, I just take it out –: that the willingness to stop maladministration – it must not even be a mistake, but it can simply be irregularities – or to draw consequences from the finding of these, is a very laborious thing, and that, as it were, one must always be faced with the nose, that the voluntaryity of resolving abuses and the like is hardly perceptible. This is also significant and symptomatic for the system, as it also shows in other areas. I recall the fact that, in connection with the Carinthian and the Salzburg electoral system, we only brought a constitutional complaint in a federal country because, as I admit, we have overestimated the political culture of the others and thought, if the Constitutional Court in one country finds that an electoral order does not comply with the constitutional principles, then the second country, in which the same states rule, will, of its own accord, lead to the consequences and a change in the country. Carinthia didn't do it as it's known. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That was a mistake!]] It was a mistake, quite right. We have learned from this and have, therefore, entered a platform now in order to produce for us such a legitimization for the next time, because, apparently – and I believe that is the symptom of this system – without compulsion by the Constitutional Court, one is not prepared to avoid misdevelopments, to learn from mistakes or to eliminate abuses. As far as individual cases and certain circumstances are concerned, the public prosecutorship obviously has the same experience. So because it's symptomatic, I took it out as a point. I just want to deal with one point in the short time – I said earlier, our intention is to take the concrete things into account in Parliament's work – I would like to deal with the proposals of the People's Procuratorate itself and make a few comments about it because I felt particularly curious, for example what Mr Stadler said in his speech. On the one hand, the Public Prosecutor's Office has proposed extending its powers of control to the distributed legal entities, similar to that of the Court of Auditors. We have considered this not only to be a very wise proposal, to be a politically necessary proposal, to a proposal whose implementation is so important because otherwise this control instrument will be eroded – we know that more and more outsourcing is taking place, and it will be another way of talking about the fairness of these outsourcings – we have not only told you that we are going to do so, but we have already submitted a corresponding initiative proposal a year ago. That is why Mr Stadler must not ask for this at the next meeting of the Subcommittee, because the request is already under way, and he could have supported it before. The government groups were not prepared to talk about this request. After a year we have managed to get it on the agenda of the Constitutional Committee, and a subcommittee has only been set up. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a mistake! How often!]] By the way, this is also a curiosum, but I will come to speak on it later. In this context, we will hopefully also be able to convince the government groups – and I acknowledge that my hope is limited – that the public prosecutor's responsibility on this issue needs to be extended. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is responsible?]] It is precisely this suggestion that we have agreed on our own initiative, because it also corresponds to our conviction. For a year there has been the Liberals' request. We'll follow him on. If we get the support of another opposition party, we will be pleased about it. On the second point, however, in which the People's Procuratorate proposes "the legal anchoring of the VA's possibilities for the creation of legislative suggestions to the National Council", I consider it to be, honestly speaking, nothing at all. I am also referring to the request of the Greens, who want to see the same thing anchored, so concrete that the People's Procuratorate can even make legislative proposals. This is a line with which I cannot befriend myself at all, because I consider it very sensible and very helpful – and therefore sufficient – that the public prosecutorship, from its point of view, gives the suggestions for legislative changes it considers necessary and submits them to Parliament in the form it has been doing for years. That is to say, we have them here, and now it is up to Parliament and to the majority in Parliament, but also to the initiatives of Members to make or not to apply for them. And that must be enough! Everything else I thought was a completely wrong way of our legal system. I therefore cannot understand the Greens either, since it is also up to them to make an initiative proposal from a suggestion. Or do you think that the People's Procuratorate would have a different place than the Members? That would probably be a declaration of bankruptcy for your own self-understanding. And that's why I don't think so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Schmidt! Read page 192! Everything's in there already! Page 192 ff!]] If Mr Stadler stands here and says that if these legitimate suggestions are not complied with, he will also give the lawyers the opportunity to question the government why this is not happening, I do not wonder that he is saying that, because he is not correct in the constitutional structure, it has not been disclosed for the first time. But he believes that the government should be asked why Parliament is not acting, is already a very strange parliamentary understanding, which is still being specifically revealed here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ms. Teacher! I ask you to read page 192 ff! They persist in error as often as they do!]] It is therefore up to me to remind you of this once again, because I have the impression that you have not all heard it. But I don't wonder, because I don't listen to him, I really understand that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Miss Teacher, you are in error!]] I only listened to him because he spoke before me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Oberlehrerin! You have not read the report! You haven't prepared yourself well for the lessons!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The next item concerns the participation of lawyers in the negotiations of the committees or subcommittees of the National Council and the Federal Council. In this regard, Mr Stadler has found that this is so essential, but I would like to agree with Mrs Hlavac's opinion that it is now possible to ask for information on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ms. Teacher, 192 ff read!]] If it is then said that we do not use it much enough, then I must say: If it is not used enough, there is obviously no need for parliamentarians. Why now, just because the three Volksanwälten sit on the government bank, is it necessary to present a different picture than it is actually the case in the committee? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want to become an attorney? God forbid!]] If we don't need to load them as an information person, who do we have to apologize for? However, if we have the need, we will invite them and we will be glad when they come. I therefore do not think it necessary to anchor it with an additional provision, but this procedure is possible. I join Mr Hlavac. I didn't want to say it anymore. We do not support further anchoring, as it may be called for, and as Mr Stadler would support it, because we believe that the instrument we have now is already sufficient. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, Mrs. Teacher, I know! But you should read the report!]] Next point: "Inclusion of a four-week (approachable) deadline for the authorities to provide the necessary information." – This is also a concern that we strongly support, not only by verbally supporting here but also by taking it into account a year ago in our request that I have spoken about. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Oberlehrerin! Not only speak well, but read the report! Then you would notice that all of this is inside!]] It would therefore be negotiable for a year, and it is therefore not necessary to say now that one would demand it or not. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Report pages 192 to 199!]] Because the request is available, and you... [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, it's going on! Until page 204!]] I do not know, Mr Neisser, whether it would be possible to call these crackers on the right side a little bit to order! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I know! I know you don't know anything, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I admit, though, that I have a strong ability to concentrate and that this gentleman has never brought me out of peace, except with democracy political evil, but that is politicism, because it concerns him nothing but to interfere with the right of speech here. And this should also be seen in the same way as what resources are being used here in this Parliament. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was gone again, the student Stadler! I know!]] But he'll be a little hard if he doesn't get through. It's annoying him, and that's why he keeps doing it again and again. You know that. These are the reactions of the children. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was gone again, the student Stadler!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I would like to say to Mr President-in-Office of the Council that the Liberals made their suggestion a year ago on the very subject of the legislative proposal which must now finally be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, in a subcommittee. I would be pleased if we could have a majority in favour of this suggestion, which is also desired by the Volksanwälten, and thus facilitate and perhaps make it more efficient. One last point. This is something which, unfortunately, is not relevated by the Volksanwälten themselves. But, well, I can already imagine that you may not need to deal with it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have the wife Schmidt for that!]] However, there is already an initiative by parliamentarians. This is essential, because in Parliament the laws are passed. In this proposal, which is one year old, we have proposed – also from the Greens there is a relevant request in this direction – that relic from the past that only the three strongest parties can make a proposal for the People's Procuratorate, and that is because at that time, as everyone knows – that was in 1977 – there were only three parties in this House. Although the wording "the three parties most strongly represented in the main committee" was adopted at the time, it was not excluded that one party or another was added, but one nevertheless assumed the dominant situation: [[Abg. May. Stadler: You want to become a popular lawyer, because you can't be the Federal President anymore!]] There are only three parties. I do not think that it can be so that Parliament's control instrument can only be proposed by the strongest parties. I think this is wrong for democracy policy, and I also believe that it does not do a good job. I therefore believe that our proposal, as the Greens have already suggested, is that the main committee should make an overall proposal and that each group represented in Parliament has a proposal right, is a minimum standard for a control instrument. I hope that in the next few weeks we will be able to discuss this and find a result, but one already shows the pharysic nature of the procedure in this House: A so-called democratic package is on the agenda tomorrow. This is an mistaken term, as everyone knows, and this is a benevolent expression, because otherwise one should be afraid of the democratic understanding of the government groups. We were not prepared to do so even though these applications were introduced on the last day of the session and are now being impelled to use a subcommittee, although a number of materials are affected, from the Federal President's election order to the European electoral order, to the National Council election order, to the People's Desire Act. And that's not enough if you ask me, because there are a number of other points in it. Mr Neisser wondered before the summer what the opposition is all about. We've tried not to let it please us. I would have liked to have liked all the support, including the number of government groups, so that these points could not be put on the agenda or put into a subcommittee. Not only has this not been supported, but we have been defeated by this desire. That is to say, about those materials where it was really necessary to consult them to a greater extent, one is in a lightning action – with refusal of discussion – so that one can say after that that the Committee has not been long enough – simply "overrun", and the story is done with it. But for these two requests from the Liberals and the Greens concerning the People's Procuratorate Act, because one wanted to "move" it, a subcommittee has been generously set up. To see this comparison alone shows what is not taken seriously in this House and what instruments are simply misused for. I feel it because it's alibiactions. What does not change the fact that we have at least succeeded in consulting this proposal. And I hope that we can then put the test activity on even better feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14548	Mrs Mag. Stoisits is now coming to the fore. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes before. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14569	Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Mrs. Volksanwaltte and Mr. Volksanwalt! It is not a disregard for your activity and your presence that I have only 5 minutes of speaking time. It's just a question of day-to-day speaking time. The topic of Lassing, as you will certainly understand, has taken some time today and thus also used the speaking time of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! The direct dialogue with the People's Procuratorate is to ask Mrs. Volksanwalt Korosec – at the time Chairman of the Tripartite Board – to influence the legislation in connection with the discussion on the extension of the public prosecutor's facilities as an auxiliary body of the National Council. Direct dialogue with the People's Procuratorate, which means: Dialogue between the Volksanwälte and us. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the twenty-first report. In the 18th report of the People's Procuratorate, the legalist suggestions made about 28 pages. Paper is patient – so it has been called Mrs. Volksanwalt Korosec – and how patient the paper is on which you write your suggestions shows the fact that we are now discussing the twenty-first report and hardly anything is implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is what a popular lawyer says, who has been a parliamentarian for a relatively long time – I don't know how many years – then I take suggestions like this very seriously. [[Volksanwaltin Korosec: Ten!]] It shows that, from the point of view of the former interested parties, but only due to the value of experience that has accumulated in the exercise of the office of an attorney, which makes sense, because it is not a unilateral assessment, but because it includes two views. That is why the slogan is that the people's lawyers want to be lobbyists for specific interests, something I take very seriously. Where, then, does the citizen or the citizen turn if she or she no longer knows about questions relating to administrative activity? – Of course to the People's Procuratorate! But if the People's Procuratorate, which is the National Council's auxiliary body, becomes more and more toothless, because the laws we decide to become increasingly complicated, increasingly incomprehensible, and are no longer comprehensible, then the possibility for the People's Procuratorate in its now agreed framework is more and more limited. That is why I share the demand made by you for more citizen-friendly legislation, although I know – and I have been a parliamentarian for almost eight years – that this demand is not always enforceable because the world is very complicated, but it is a really legitimate one, and that is why we Greens support it. It is difficult to be lobbyists for specific interests, but it is difficult to be Ladies and gentlemen, if the Federal Theatre and the Federal Forest and the Railway and the Post are all a hundred percent owned by the Republic, the People's Procuratorate is the Salzamt in this case, because there are no possibilities there. I have to say – and I do not want to repeat what Mrs. Dr. Schmidt said: I believe that we are no longer very serious about our honest intention to give ourselves, as representatives of the state, a control of the administration and thus also of the laws, if we are increasingly to cut down on this right by extending it and leaving nothing more. This applies precisely to those areas that concern citizens in particular. That is why we particularly support this demand. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only the misbehaviour of the administration that the work of the People's Procuratorate is increasing, but also the inadequacy that exists in the legal system and thus in the laws. I am referring to the Subcommittee on Public Prosecution. That's the same opinion as Mrs. Schmidt. The so-called democratic package is now to be decided "at random" on the same day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] I don't repeat it, I'm totally in agreement with you. But for this, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, especially those of the ÖVP, have their own position which you could once discuss against us. I would like to make a few comments on our own proposals. On the suggestion that we made in our legislative proposal, namely to give the public prosecutor's right to apply, I am – and therefore we have made it – very happy to enter into an argument. I know that requests from the Greens have never been implemented 1 : 1 and since I know the scepticism that this request is being made, I am not really victorious either this time. In any case, it contains an indication of how parliamentaryism has developed in recent years; and this is precisely what Mrs Dr. Schmidt, let me take an example. The subcommittee will perhaps give us the opportunity to deal with this question, for example in the case of the People's Procuratorate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, will comment on certain details of your report. Thank you very much for your work. 12,000 complaints in a year – this is a fine number! I am impressed by 12,000 complaints with such a small staff as you have. I have to say: All those I send to the People's Procuratorate are not always satisfied with the result that comes out then, but that has never been your area so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14611	It now has Mrs. Volksanwalt Mag. Messner to speak. - Please, Mrs. Volksanwaltin.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14632	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to comment briefly on the general statements made by the five ladies and gentlemen who have spoken so far. I would particularly like to highlight one point because it has been raised several times, and it concerns the issue of accessibility and the understanding of information by citizens. I think that is a very important point. In the activities of the People's Procuratorate, it is becoming increasingly evident – and not only in the social field – that information is provided by many bodies in our country, but that the question of how information can be understood also needs to be considered. That means quite specifically: We also need to consider how to provide information. This is very evident in the social sector – in that area that I have to deal with with my employees in the People's Procuratorate. For example, a wide range of brochures and information material are produced by social security institutions, but it is always necessary that this information is not understood accordingly, and that this creates a manco in so far as social rights which the society has standardised for the individual are simply not addressed, because personal access to this information is denied to the individual by its non-existent level of recipient. I believe that the public prosecutorship should also be an indicator of social policy in a country and certainly is also. This is reflected in the fact that, in many cases, the public prosecutor's information service is used and that, as Mr Donabauer pointed out, for example, 67 percent of the requests concern family law. This shows very clearly – as we all see in our everyday life – where there are weaknesses where there are changes in the social policy field. I do not want to appreciate them at all, but the fact that there are changes leads to people being unsure and striving to get more information that they are trying to get competent information. Of course, I am pleased about the fact that people expect to get competent information in the People's Procuratorate. It is clear to me that this level of trust which the people of the institution meet with is a duty to us. In this context, I would like to ask all of you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make a point of order. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, who have honoured the work of our employees, thank you very much for it, for it is really so: What would we be like without our employees? – They carry the loads of everyday work with us on their shoulders and are very committed. [[General condolences.]] Thank you for your express recognition and appreciation of this work by the employees of our house. I would also like to make a brief point on the issue of public relations. Of course, Mrs. Schmidt, if we would like to have more windows to the public, we would also like to have a window on TV again. We are trying to accept the opportunities we offer. In the "Welkommen Österreich" programme, a rather good cooperation with the People's Procuratorate has been established. Although it shows less direct presence of the Volksanwälte, it always reduces only to a few minutes of sending time, but that is better than nothing. We have tried, since the mission "A case for the public prosecutor" no longer exists and since we are unfortunately no longer invited to the program "Conflicts" to our press service... – Well, but it is a window to the public, and if you can regularly get into the living room of the population – I think I just don't need to tell you that because you know what I'm talking about – it's of course an advantage. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You don't need to be sad!]] Of course, as I mean – I don't like to lie to my own pocket – we have also had some help in implementing our arguments. The fact that we depend on the better arguments is immanent to a Ombudsman institution, we know. We have to try again and again, with better arguments and with great toughness in the implementation of ours, as we hope to work correctly, and we have to try to convince the partners on the other side of the table – I deliberately do not say "oppressors" because I believe that they are not – that we are right with our views. But I would now like to return to the question of public relations: We strive to reach the printing media with our regular press services and because we have gone online in order to achieve a certain degree of public relations and to make bets without wanting to disregard the printing media. That would be a big mistake if it were understood. I believe that it is necessary for us to inform people about our work, because with it we can also provide them with the amount of information they need in order to be able to contact us in this or that case, which we show with the help of public relations, and also to have the opportunity, if necessary, to get help from the People's Procuratorate. A few ladies and gentlemen - quite specifically, I believe, by Mrs Hlavac and by Mr Donabauer - have been mentioned here that we are also trying to get to the people of the federal states. I think that's something essential. Over the last few years, we have been trying to increase our presence in the federal states. We have expanded our federal speaking days. We have not only come to the district suburbs and the capitals, but also to other important places that have appeared to us as centres of assembly because they are important in the regional structure of the federal states because of their importance. We also want to offer people the services of the People's Procuratorate there. Furthermore, the possibility of the local exchange rate will be repeatedly promoted by us and offered to the people so that those women and men who are at home in the federal states – not in Vienna, the seat of the People's Procuratorate – will also have the opportunity to use the establishment of the Public Procuratorate on the basis of the same conditions as those Austrians who can directly contact the Public Procuratorate, i.e. those who live in Vienna. As far as foreign contacts are concerned, I am pleased that some Members, Mr Donabauer and Mr Stadler, have seen this very positively. I also believe – and I am in good company with my two colleagues – that for us Austrians who have had the opportunity to live in a democratic state for many decades, it is actually a very nice task to give assistance to the young democracies, which have now been in the process of changing and building democratic structures for about ten years and which are also historically linked to us, as far as possible, and to enter into an exchange of views with them. I also believe that this is no longer a one-way road. This is how a work visit, which we paid last week to the Hungarian People's Lawyers, has shown that we too can long benefit from colleagues in the neighbouring countries. I believe that this contact across borders can also lead to an exchange of interests and opinions which can be beneficial for both sides – for us in Austria, but also for colleagues in the neighbouring countries. That we finally, as Mrs Stoisits, have been so kind to formulate this – "lobbyists for the citizens", even as lobbyists for the people, may I say, I want to understand, is something that we see as our most important task, which ultimately you, ladies and gentlemen of this House, entrusted to us. We want to act, above all, for those who are disadvantaged, who are not alone in our system. In the sense of your work as a positive one, we will endeavour to carry out this task, even in the coming years – I may say, in the remaining term of office; we have now achieved around the half-time of this term of office – this task which you have entrusted to us, according to the best of knowledge and conscience. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14677	Thank you, Mrs. Volksanwälter Messner. The next speaker is Mr Stippel. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14701	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies' lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mrs. Volksanwaltin Messner has just spoken about the fact that the lawyers understand themselves as lobbyists for the people. I can only stress that completely. I would also like to stress that in my 19-year membership with this House, I have always been able to observe the activity and development of the People's Procuratorate and therefore I have always been able to draw a summary. At the time when the House decided on the institution of the public prosecutor's office, there was for us the Swedish example of the Ombudsman. By the way, this Swedish example of the Ombudsman – the idea came first of all from Bruno Kreisky – matured in Austria and from year to year became more and more a help to those people who have come up with legal competences. They have been getting help from the People's Procuratorate or have sought help from the Public Procuratorate. This year's twenty-first report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 1997 was – I would like to stress – delivered to the House in good time. This has not always been the case in the past. He's clearly designed. Anyone who has read this report can only give me the right. I would therefore like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your help, and, of course, all your employees. When it comes to staff, I would like to add something that was raised very strongly in the Committee, namely the question of public service relations with the public prosecutors. At first glance, it looks as if a disproportionately large number of officials in the public prosecutor's office would be officials. This is the same statistically at first glance. However, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider the need for special protection for institutions dealing with the examinations of state institutions. I am in favour of discussing the question of Pragmatization in general and also calling into question some things, but there are some institutions and institutions in which, in my opinion, the public service relationship is indispensable. This, of course, also belongs to the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a lot of what I have done to say that has already been mentioned here from this speaker's point of view. I too am concerned that the public works of the public prosecutor's office should become even stronger. I know we were all very dissatisfied with the TV show "A case for the popular lawyer" at the time, we turned against it. The consequence of this was that this programme was dropped in its kind from the ORF programme, but unfortunately there is no equivalent for it at present. Other possibilities of public relations have been highlighted: the monthly information service, the weekly press service, but also occasional appearances in the ORF and in private radio broadcasts. I hope that a relationship can be established with the new general intern of the ORF, where you will again have the opportunity to become more open to the public. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that the international contacts are important – and I come to the conclusion of my remarks. Just as Austria once benefited from the example of Sweden, these countries should now benefit from the example of Austria, which is slowly growing into democracies, i.e. those countries which are located behind the Iron Curtain until 1989. I would ask you to continue those contacts you have established so far. I ask you to be available to those states with advice and help, because for me personally the public prosecutorship is an essential part of a functioning democracy. If we want the states that have long been away from genuine democracy to become real democracies, we must also recognize that they also need a functioning public prosecutorship. I would like you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quite successful in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14753	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Ladies and gentlemen, I set a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14775	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been announced by my colleague Mr Stadler that we will bring forward a motion for a resolution on the further development of the People's Prosecution. I would like to add this and add, because the catalogue of topics was quite broad and had already been said in this direction, that, essentially, only one function or one area of the wishes of the Volksanstalts was realized, namely the presentation of the activity reports to the Federal Council. However, since, due to the disseminations in the past, it is becoming an ever-increasing problem that far-reaching areas of the public prosecutor's current investigation – for example, the ÖBB, the Post, the Federal Forest, the Federal Theatre and the Federal Museums – will be removed from control and we see in it a democratic deficit, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Much has already been said about this subject complex, and I would like to conclude with it. It is very important for my speech to have been the comments made by Mr Schmidt. I would like to comment briefly on this because, as Mrs Schmidt said, you yourself – and now I quote you literally – that you do not have the impression that you have the word "Pharisaic" in the Committee, I believe, that, when it comes to dealing with the public prosecutor's office, a different picture is presented in the Committee than here in the plenary. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: I didn't say that!]] That's the point. In this way you said that. You can then read it in the minutes. Unfortunately, I don't have much time. But that is the point for which I am very grateful to my colleague, Mr Stippel, and, secondly, how carefully and politely the public prosecutorship is dealing with all the members of this House. When Mrs. Volksanwaltin Messner thanked all the members of the House for the recognition of the services of the public prosecutor's staff, she also said this to her address. However, they have not behaved accordingly in the Committee; Mr Stippel referred to this without a name. However, I do not want to hide the fact that you spoke in the Committee on Nearly two-thirds of your speech exclusively about Pragmatization and meant that the percentage of the pragmatized staff in the public prosecutor's office was too high. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Actual correction!]] This is something that is happening to me and should also happen to you, Mrs Schmidt, because you just come from the public prosecutor's apparatus and are also the benefit of this Pragmatization, namely, highly personal! But you are recommending exactly what you are actually enjoying as an advantage in the Committee. You are a senior ministerial councillor of the People's Procuratorate, and you have received this ministerial council title in your absence during your stay. You have irrefutablely taken advantage of this service exemption and this promotion, which has been assigned to you, and have not rejected it. Mrs Schmidt, you are still at the heart of your Pragmatization and are also entitled to return to the public prosecutor's office. So, as I said, you're a useful woman. You have not renounced your Pragmatization. In fact, you are blocking a position for a test officer who could well be needed by the People's Procuratorate so that the lot of work she is in the house can also be done. You block this post by your absence and carnation. So they urge a system that you are using permanently and for years as a benefit worker. I just think it's not portable if you deal with it like that. Mr Stippel presented this very correctly. [[Complementary of the Abg. Haller.]] It is true that test bodies of Parliament's auxiliary bodies are protected by Pragmatization. The Court of Auditors has also noted the need for Pragmatization in particular, because they are in the clinic, so to speak, with the highest institutions, and should therefore, of course, also enjoy special protection, which we as parliamentarians must give them. If you, Mrs Schmidt, question this, then you will also question your own position there. And I'd like to give you one more way. When you left the People's Procuratorate, you left behind a mountain of unfinished files. These officials you've been discrediting are exactly those officials who've done these files for you. They have treated you more or less badly in committee, and it is only thanks to the generosity of the public prosecutor's office that it spreads over it the coat of silence. And that's good, even in your sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14869	Mr Graf has tabled a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. Mrs Dr Schmidt has now referred to an actual correction. Madam Member, please begin with the facts to which you are addressing your correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14897	I spoke earlier during Mr Stippel's speech on Pragmatization. I'll talk about it later. Now I am bringing an actual correction, and this refers only to one point. Mr Graf has said that I would have said that if the picture of the report of the People's Procuratorate in the Committee was presented differently than here in the plenary, I think it would be far-reaching. - I didn't say that. I have called the process of the coalition parties a Pharisee, in connection with the use of a subcommittee via a small matter, but not over a large one. That's a difference. So much on the subject of my actual correction. With regard to Pragmatization, I shall speak later.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14938	Mrs Haidlmayr is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e14960	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! I too would like to thank the People's Procuratorate for the great work it does every year, because it really represents the interests of those who may not have fallen on the butter side of life. I would like to point out here again and again – and I think this report makes it quite clear – that important points that I have been trying to bring about a proper solution in Parliament for years again appear to be an incentive in this report. This shows me that the suggestions of the People's Procuratorate do not seem to be taken seriously by the Coalition, otherwise at the end of this report there would not be a page-long annex in which it can be read again and again: "Animation of the People's Procuratorate remains upright." Most of these suggestions should have been resolved and implemented for a long time. Unfortunately, that's not happening. But I trust and hope in the People's Procuratorate that it will continue to do so and that its suggestions will always and again be included in this report. Perhaps at some point in time the annex will be as thick as the list of the 12 000 cases themselves – I would rather call them "life situations" – mentioned in this report. I would now like to refer to a few chapters which seem to me to be extremely important. The first point concerns the care allowance. There was a renewal of the care allowance this summer. This may have improved a little, but the basic situation of care providers in Austria is far from solved, ladies and gentlemen! You know that you are still one of the people with disabilities, an open level of care. This is designed to ensure that people who need support around the clock can actually provide the necessary assistance and assistance. Now it's like this: If the need for care money is so high that it exceeds the maximum limit of 22,000 s, these people still have to migrate to stationary facilities because they simply cannot organize or finance assistance at home. This is an important area which has not yet been implemented. I have never had the impression that the coalition has ever intended to finally resolve this most necessary point in a way through which there would be a real improvement for people in need of care. The public prosecutor's report shows more than clearly where the problems in the care sector lie. No one needs to reinvent the wheel in order to recognize these difficult situations in life. In fact, one should only read the report of the public prosecutor's office and have a level of information, on the basis of which one could really change something. The second area, which is also very important to me personally, is the field of civil service. It is very specific about those civil servants who do their civil service not in Austria but outside Austria. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it is still a huge problem for those people who do not perform civil service in Austria to finance their livelihood. The associations cannot partially impose the necessary amounts, and every civil servant who goes abroad today and makes his civil service there must be a great idealist, even more, he really must be a life artist in order to find a way out with this low income. The third point, which is still very important to me – I think you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, would have the opportunity to change something – concerns the right to vote for disabled people. We will discuss tomorrow a new electoral order for the Federal President's election, for the National Council election, for the European elections and for popular desires. This report by the People's Procuratorate once again states that it has not yet succeeded in making the constituencies accessible, which would also make it possible for disabled people to use their democratic right to vote. But it will not change because of the new version and the revision of the electoral order that I have previously listed. What you have advocated by the government parties is such a soft determination or a soft approach that it does not bring anything to anyone and does not guarantee the right to vote for disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen! People with disabilities have a right to vote, and the People's Procuratorate has shown for years that: They prevent disabled people from exercising their right to vote by simply not creating the building conditions through which people who are disabled may go to vote. This is what this report says. [[The speaker shall keep the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office up to date.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! You still have the opportunity to change your motion for a law, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, so that you can continue to draw up these points contained in this report by the Public Prosecutor's Office. You would also prove that you take the public prosecutor's office and the concerns that represent the public prosecutor's office seriously and also try to implement the claims of the public prosecutor's office. Finally, I would like to thank you once again – you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate. Many of my friends and I, we really feel represented by you, because you perceive the task of putting people at the edge of society to give the chance to get back a bit into society. I would like to thank you for that. It's nice to work with you, and it's also very productive to work with you. I would like to maintain this cooperation with you for a very long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15028	Mrs Dr Schmidt spoke a second time. Ladies and gentlemen, your group still has 30 minutes of total speaking time. I'll set 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15049	On the one hand, only to Mr Graf. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We hear nothing! The speaker doesn't work!]] [[The speaker pulls the microphone.]] – Is that understandable now? I'm glad you want to hear me! [[Call the SPÖ: We want to!]] I'm glad about it! Is it all the better? I'm trying. First: Mrs Volksanwältin Messner has very well observed the thanks from my mouth on behalf of my group to the employees of the House. I have said this, I have meant it honestly and I have also justified it because I appreciate the quality of the work, also because of the experience and the report we have. Therefore, Mr Graf, try not to draw a different picture here. Secondly, I think it is a strange understanding of discussion and of principle thinking if one recognizes or feels the question of Pragmatization as a discreditation of officials. I therefore spoke on behalf of my colleague, Mr Stippel, because I wanted to place my other position here again. I have a position different from that you have, Mr Stippel, and it seems that you also have FPÖ. I do not think that it is necessary to have Pragmatization in the field of examination. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then why don't you give up on it yourself?- Oh, my God!]] I don't think it's necessary. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I think that the Pragmatization is to be questioned, and in this context I have therefore also asked the public prosecutors whether there might have been an increase, for example in connection with the Pragmatization stop. I have now looked at it, and I have asked for it in committee. There was no serious increase, but the large proportion of Pragmatizations is already quite – and therefore, even though Mrs Volksanwalt has answered it from the Stegreif, Mrs Volksanwalt has been right - mostly or to a good part, I say, old-age. However, something has also been added, and something has happened in an area which is not an area of examination, namely in the C and D sectors. However, the test area is A- and B-area. Not that I think it is necessary that there be only academics there, but the fact is that Pragmatizations in the non-examination field have been continued in recent years, although not serious, but at least in any case. I think that's the wrong way, and not just that. Even if your argument was followed by what we did not do, my question in the Committee was as follows: In total, there are 47 employees in the People's Procuratorate. Of these 47, 42 are pragmatized, and of these 42 work in the immediate area of examination according to the reply of Mrs. Volksanwaltin Messner 20. That is, even if you follow your argument, you should only refer to these 20 employees. The other 22 employees are already outside that area of which you believe that special protection would be necessary. We believe that Pragmatization is not necessary at all. And if Mrs. Volksanwalt also says quite honestly in her reply: Yes, there are also the officials and the cleaning women and all the others, because we want to give people – they didn't say so, but that's, of course – a safe job, then it's nice for those concerned, but I wonder: What does that mean for the others? This inequality: here a protected area, there a free area, that is the crack that goes through society, which we should not yet defend. We should not make this gap even deeper, but in a new solidarity we should resolve this border. That is what the Liberals want, and that was the background of my question. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] If the FPÖ believes that it discredits people, it may be understood. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I said you can go ahead with good example and give up your Pragmatization! Always point to the others!]] This has nothing to do with the fact that we will continue our line of reconstruction of the state and, above all, the reconstruction of Pragmatization to its complete abolition, apart from very few areas, politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15152	Mrs. Volksanwälter Korosec is now on the floor. - Please, Mrs. Volksanwaltin.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15173	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since I have been listening to this House for ten years, I know that if I look at your agenda, I can only get my sympathy if I take a very short time now. And that's what I'm gonna do. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Since no direct questions have been raised on individual cases, I can only limit myself to a few sentences. First of all, I would like to thank you for your interest, thank you for thanking you, above all, for addressing the development of the public prosecutor's office, as we have proposed, and for the fact that this committee has now been set up and a survey is also planned. We can only welcome this. I assume that we have so much opportunity to discuss intensively that I do not need to go further on the individual questions or suggestions today. But I would like to clarify something, Mrs Schmidt, and I assume that it is a misunderstanding, and I do not think that should be left in the room. It has been said in the Committee that there are 47 public prosecutors, 42 officials and 5 contract staff. That's right. However: The planning posts we have are not exclusively occupied by officials. In fact it is true that in the public prosecutor's office of the 47 posts are 46,5 of which 32 are officials, but one must say that 25 officials are employed in the test area alone, regardless of the secretariat, only the auditors. This means that 14.5 persons in the Public Prosecutor's Office are contract staff. I don't think that's a misunderstanding. Moreover, we agree with President Führer on this point: In the field of testing, we think it is right and necessary that Pragmatizations be made. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank you for the constructive discussion, and I very much hope that, within the framework of the subcommittee and the survey, we can really discuss everything very closely and that in the future we will have more opportunity to be in this House so that we can do more for the citizens of this country. For one thing you have to say: They are – we have heard this today – satisfied with us. We are never satisfied because we believe that you can never do enough. Being in this country is a wonderful task, and the more we can do, the more positive it is. In this sense, I would like to thank you very much and look forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15226	Mr Volksanwalt Schender has also been mentioned. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15247	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr raised the question of civil service outside Austria. This has actually been a major problem over a period of about half or three-quarters of a year. Problems have therefore emerged because there are two competing associations that pass on the Ministry of the Interior's resources to civil servants who serve outside Austria's civil service. And these two associations, as I said, made each other's life difficult, so that one day the Minister of the Interior saw no other way out than to block the funds and say: At last agree on the promotion of civil servants abroad, or you won't get anything for this purpose from the Ministry of the Interior! The Minister of the Interior has assured me, because there have been a number of complaints in my business area, that he would take over directly from the Ministry of the Interior this charge of the costs to civil servants abroad until an agreement is reached between these associations or with a private association, which is to continue to settle again. I believe that there have been no problems in this area since then, unless you, Mrs Haidlmayr, are familiar with some of them. Then I'd ask you to tell me this immediately. I will then immediately contact the Minister of the Interior. Some speakers have referred to plant law and commercial law. It was rightly pointed out that the rights of the locals have been gradually reduced over the past seven or eight years from industrial innovation to industrial innovation. The procedures have been accelerated to varying degrees in the individual Länder, depending on the extent to which the federal states have been able to take administrative and procedural concentration measures. In some federal states it has become even slower and more laborious to deal with procedures because the handling of the trade order is becoming increasingly difficult, ever more complicated, increasingly cumbersome. The county captains tell me more and more often: With each new novel, the trade order becomes even more manageable. Our whole hope now rests on the new plant law, which has now been reviewed. I would just ask for the following, ladies and gentlemen: In connection with the novice of the mountain, there have been some words today in which the message was spoken about the party position of the agrarians. A member of the ÖVP – I think it was Mr Kröll – has literally said: There must be an end to the arrogance of the arrants! – This should not only be the case in mountain law, but should also be the case in the case of plant law. This principle should also be included in the plant law, because this draft of a new plant law contains many good approaches and many valuable acceleration steps, which are likely to have a positive impact in the administrative field, but the rights of the arrants have not improved by a Jota. There was only one small innovation in 1998, with regard to citizens' right of application, if they feel particularly badly affected by a plant. With this 1998 amendment, it has been decided that the citizen will not have to bear the costs of this operating system unless new conditions are granted to this company. However, if, on the basis of this request, the holding is not subject to any additional conditions, the applicant must bear the total cost of this plant operation procedure, and that can go into the tens of thousands, even in individual cases, of schilling. And that, I think, is a too hard barrier. There is no doubt that the use of the authorities will be prevented, but this can be achieved in a different way than to avoid such serious procedural costs for citizens. [[Complementary of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I should therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep an eye on the rights of neighbouring workers in the treatment of this plant law and in the case of the mountain law. We have put forward a number of proposals in this regard in the context of the review procedure and will do so in the Works Act. It is very welcome that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has today announced that the new Mountain Law will include the allocation of the mountain authorities from the main teams to the district headquarters. We support this proposal at least in terms of quarries, gravel pits and clay pits. With regard to the rest of the mountain law, I do not want to express my views. I do not think that the district captains will be able to take over to their fullest extent all the tasks of the mountain captains. But as far as the gravel pits, the quarries and the clay pits are concerned, the county headquarters have proved for decades that they can cover this area quite satisfactorily in the context of the trade regulations. As far as all other areas of the Bergbehörde are concerned, I cannot quite quite imagine that they cover each of the district's captains in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15305	Thank you very much for the two reports. We shall now proceed to the vote. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their respective place. The Committee's request to take note of this report III-125 of the supplements was first voted on. Whoever stands up for his notice, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades on further development of the People's Procuratorate. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is he?]] In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Stadler has not agreed, Mr President!]] 3rd. Point 13 of the Constitutional Committee Report Sport report 1996 by the Federal Chancellor (III-99/1169 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15363	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item: 13. Sport report 1996 of the Federal Government. There is a pressurised correction by the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15382	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to have an introductory report on the sports report, but I do report a print error correction. The title of the written report and the Committee's application contains just this problem of pressure. It would have to be instead of "13. Sport report 1996 of the Federal Government" correctly called "13. Sport report 1996 by the Federal Chancellor". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15400	That's not what I've announced either. Thank you very much, rapporteur. So we know what we are now opening the debate on. The first speaker is Mr Grollitsch, and you, Mr Deputies, now know exactly what you need to talk about.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15427	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We are pleased to note that the season begins with a sports report, i.e. a sports theme. We are less pleased that we have not succeeded in achieving the agreed multi-party application for this report. The reasons for this are multi-layered. One of these may be that the house-bowl in the coalition on sports issues is going wrong, because after the last debate in July a very hasty, politically motivated report by the BSO went out. But perhaps after the return of my colleague, Mr Grabner, we will be able to recapture what has been missed today in the next report. For this correction, which was made: Mr President. Mr Kopf has corrected the fact that not the Federal Chancellor's Office, but the Federal Government is responsible for this sports report. This miscarriage may be linked to the fact that, just one year ago, we decided that all locations with a tangent to sport would be invited to enter the subcommittee in the course of the discussion on the 1996 report. This has also been done to a large extent, although no department leader, no minister, has given us the honour, even the Lord "Sportgala" or "Galasportminister" climate. He has never seen himself in "his" sports committee, which we are very sorry for. We have had six or seven department representatives in the form of officials during the discussions on the two half-days and we have been able to determine how far the cross-sectional matter sport goes into the individual departments. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, we should be aware of what the sport of input is about to bring to the annual budget – and this must be remarkable, especially in comparison to the ridiculous promotion of sports, as we once again decided here in July – by its representative, the President of the Ministry of Finance, of very moisturous excursions of this association. So we've switched to this level of reporting. On the other hand, at a high level, the school centre and the National Defence Division reported. The next reports will be thinner than now, for they will no longer contain the chapter on the Bundessportheime, which is a quarter of this report. [[Abg. Head: 1997 already!]] The Federal Sports Homes were distributed some time ago, they were deprived of control by the Court of Auditors, and in a form of sham privatisation against which we leaned. I, together with my colleagues from the Freemans, tried to prevent this breakdown of the German sports homes. To this end, I asked that the Infora study from 1993 and 1995 which was paid out of budget resources be obtained. They should know that at the time a study was commissioned by the Federal Chancellery or before by the Ministry of Health, on how to sell the German sports homes efficiently. The contents of the study have only come to our attention in rumor and therefore my request to the Federal Chancellery, Group Sport, for the delivery of this study paid for by means of tax. The answer of a magistrate. Wychera of the Federal Chancellery: This working paper is only intended for internal purposes and is not provided to you, even. – That is to say, to the willingness of the resort to provide us with a study which, according to a very serious nature, has come to a completely different conclusion from that decided by the Expulsion Act! The contexts are clear to us. Political influence: It was decided in July that the promotion of sports from 400 million schilling to 3 percent of the yield will be "enhanced" under the gambling monopoly law. The FPÖ voted against at the time and applied for a lower limit of 400 million schilling, while the coalition proposal contained the sum of 380 million schilling. In response – and this is really macabre – Mr Hasenöhrl, the BSO's Secretary-General, informed the BSO's control committee that the FPÖ had voted against and opposed sport. That is to say, our well-known attempts to increase sport promotion, and the corresponding applications and reasons for this were interpreted by the BSO, a supposedly non-political neutral body, in such a way that we were so-calledly directed. I did this in a newsletter. The answers from the members of the Monitoring Committee have not been kept waiting for them. Thank God, at least in this circle, one has accepted and took note of the facts and evidence provided for them. Another sentence on the 2006 Olympics: We liberals have made a request here in July, which has been scrambled off. We were laughed at when we meant that the Carinthias were to be given guarantees by the Government for the financing of the competitions. At the time, in a press release, it was said that the liberals made a political theater, that such a statement was not necessary at all to find later on the visit of Mr Samaranch in the summer, that this declaration of guarantee is very necessary, and we will soon, if we proceed in accordance with the law, be required to provide a supplement to this declaration of guarantee in the National Council. Please note, Mr State Secretary, the freedom of these Senza confinis, we are for the Olympics in Carinthias, and all the regulations that you transport through the media are wrong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15462	Mr Löschnak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15483	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! From our point of view, the 1996 sports report is an appropriate and good presentation to be informed of the sport promotion which will be allocated to the non-governmental sector in Austrian sport in order to be informed about the federal sports facilities in order to be informed of what is going on and will happen, for example, in the so important area for the sport of trainers and teaching, to the international affairs. This is a report that is necessary and good for sport. But, of course, there are other opinions. Some say there's a little improvement, something is added. Here, I think you're right, Mr. Head of Parliament. It is only that this is not a sports report, as it was said at the time because of your statements in the "standard", which I do not think can be said, and that is why my group will, of course, take note of this 1996 sports report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Don't worry, we'll do that too!]] - On the one hand. The second, ladies and gentlemen: The sports report should also be an opportunity to bring in at least one or two basic thoughts. Mr Grollitsch has already given us the requirement that we should talk about, for example, the distribution of the federal sports facilities which he refers to. In this regard, he believes that something is being given away, and he does not understand why it should go over the stage in this form. I understand, Mr Grollitsch, that you do not understand this, because whenever freedom is delegated, it ends with the well-known results – I am thinking, for example, of the Lower Austrian housing association or this cooperative that you lead. Therefore, you do not understand why the federal sports facilities are being distributed in this form and how they should then be managed. But you have to talk to us once. We'll be happy to inform you, and then you'll know... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How far have you been with the distribution?]] We're pretty far. And it will be the way the Federal Government has presented itself, Mr Schweitzer: ==References== ................................................................................................................................ [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ASVÖ? ASKÖ?]] Next, Mr Grollitsch, on the promotion of sports. You have said that the 20 million in sport this year, and the 40 million it will obtain in the coming year, are not enough for you. This position is legitimate. Getting Only You can't explain to anyone in the sports sector why you didn't agree to the novel, no trade association representative, no umbrella representative, and especially not the voluntary members in the clubs. I guess I can say: That is not enough for me!, but at least 20 million have been added to it this year, and 40 million will be added next year, 10 percent in turn. So why you were against it, I still don't know. You must therefore have the objection that you do not have such an interest in the financing of the sport, for otherwise you would have agreed here. Member of the Grollitsch! What you have not mentioned, however, is a major concern for us in sport, are the structures in the non-governmental field of sport, and here will come a change that I really rely on and build on and that I expect some changes for the sportsmen and for the volunteers responsible in sports. We are in the Federal Sports Organisation – for the first time, I think, but perhaps there has been something like this, I don't know, 10 or 15 years, certainly not in the last ten years – to really analyze sports in Austria, where there are overlaps everywhere: tourism, private, trend sports and, and, therefore, a huge area that is analyzed there. I believe that this analysis is important in order to open up prospects for – and I do not look so far ahead that I say that for the next century or for the next millennium – the next decade. That is what we are trying to do, and I hope that we will be able to say more about this in the next sports report, which is being discussed in this House, and then there will be the federal sports facilities, because there are still those in 1997, Mr Grollitsch, not, as you said, they will not be there anymore. I'm just paying attention to this little mistake of thinking, because it shows just how exactly you really read these things. So they're gonna be there. I hope that the next sports report will have a lot to do with this, because it is quite easy to get out of this static, which can be seen for many, even for us, even in the BSO, and at least to move a lot. The fact that this movement can continue is to be thanked to the Secretary of State, so to speak, in the representation of the Minister of Sports, for he always supports it to the best of his strengths. This is, of course, not always as comprehensive as we would wish, but it is a lot, and for this we thank the State Secretary and his staff and therefore the hope that we will have his support and support for the staff in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15551	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. The remaining time of your club is 27 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15573	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The athletes are obviously not there, they do something different. We're holding the position. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Then you're a non-sporter automatically, aren't you?]] Right. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why are you talking?]] Sports, this is an important social field, located in many materials. We have experienced it in this subcommittee meeting: the Federal Chancellor's Office, represented by the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Education – School Sports – the Ministry of Social Affairs – the Ministry of Health – the Ministry of Defence – performance sports in the main –, the Ministry of Transport and Science with the University Sports and Sports Research, the Ministry of Finance on the issue of sports promotion Lotto-Toto. A cross-sectional matter – it has already been said – was collected in the sports report and dealt with in a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, which was certainly informative. But I wonder if he's the right instrument. It seems that sport is not a real political question. He is very largely a question of execution. On the other hand, there is no responsible ministry to him, therefore the delegation of the competent ministers to their specialised officials. I think it is better and wise in the future to hold an informative event in Parliament instead of a Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee on Sport and to include these reports there than to use the really official body of a subcommittee. I regret that we have not yet understood what leisure policy is. Sports would be a part of a society that is strongly transformed by a new world of work, so that the world of work and the world of leisure is floating, just as self-employment and self-employment are beginning to float. I mean, it's actually a part of leisure policy, but obviously time isn't ripe for understanding what challenges are coming to us. Ladies and gentlemen! The report itself is informative. However, we reject him because we reject the structures under which sport is running today, and I am very pleased that Mr Löschnak has announced today a reform, a rethinking of these structures. If it needs roof associations, then why three and not one? It has nothing to do with sports party politics. There are some who believe this because it's nice to sit somewhere. But again: Party politics and sport – that was at system times. There the Communists had their sport, and the Nazis had their sport, all possible terrible associations of the past. But in today's modern, diverse democracy, party politics has nothing to do with sports. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle.]] And if the party policy took up the sport, it abuses it. Politics has to serve sport and not influence it party politics. That's why we don't need three roof associations. And if we even started a roof bandage to include mass sports there, then we need one, but not three. This should also be possible in the further development of this society. [[Abg. Leikam: And what is that supposed to be?]] Dear Mr. Leikam! Imagine he won't have a color. That must be possible in this Republic, must it? [[New acknowledgment of the abg. Smolle.]] Despite my 50 years, I still have visions. The reorganisation of sport is presented here, and it is a very modest scheme that is recorded here. [[the speaker shall present one side of this report.]] In reality, the question is much more complex, and the treatment of this question should be done under the beautiful new keyword – it is more than a keyword – of reengineering. Do you have the courage to rethink the question of sport, to dedress it from many stains and simply reorganize it with two or three levels! Then more money comes to the many volunteer volunteers we have in sports, to the many people who use their idealism there and work with young people, and less money in the administration. That's how you can further develop this. The funds of the Federal Sport Organisation, which are provided by Lotto-Toto, are in order. I am very glad that this request was adopted in July, and I am still pleased at the end of my speech that Grollitsch too confesses himself to Senza confini. I hope he also says it to all the most corrupt nationalists in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15653	The honourable Member's head has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15674	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Lösnak and Mr Grollitsch have already said, the last sport report in 1995 focused on inviting and discussing sports associations and sports organisations to the Committee. This time, in the 1996 report, we have heard various ministries and we can really see that a lot is being done in the various ministries for sport; Examples of this have already been listed. But there has also been one thing: of course, these multiple and multi-competences for sport are not entirely at the interfaces without problems. I repeat once again the wish and demand of the ÖVP that the creation of a Ministry of Education, in which the science sector would also be integrated, would be the right place for the desk of the State Secretary of Sports, because then would simply be given the ideal combination between school sports, extra-school sports and university sports and a coordination which is necessary could be better done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I also welcome the initiative of the Federal Sport Organisation to carry out this analysis, which Mr Löschnak has announced. If I have recently criticized the sports report in its structure – not in its content; it is really informative – then also because I would like it to be more than just a list of statistical data – these are really informative, I say it again – but also suggestions on such questions and thoughts in the future, i.e. a sports report that also includes a sports policy statement and is not only a statistical numbering that – which is admitted – is also necessary. Mr State Secretary! Perhaps this can be added to the next or next report. For I believe that the State Secretariat and the competent government body would also be called upon to think about the structures with the BSO roof organisation, even though it will not be possible – and this must already be said, Mr Peter – for state-owned restructuring of sport to be 'ordered'. We have thanks to God not a state sport, but a free organized sport, in which the associations, as they have been created as registered associations on a voluntary basis, cannot simply be re-structured by a higher position, for example, in the form that parts of it can simply be abolished. Thank God this is not so easy with us in Austria! Since 1996 is already very far behind, perhaps a few points to the recent history of sports. I think we succeeded in 1997 and now in this year, which is about to end in 1998, in the field of sport. If I may recall: We have adopted a resolution on the German army, namely the promotion of top-level sport by the HSNS. The Federal Army is the largest sponsor of sports in Austria at all, and with this resolution we were once again able to inform the Minister of Defence of a mandate from the legislator to continue this promotion in the future. After many discussions, we were able to solve the problems of valorization. I believe that the approach is a more reasonable and creative one. This debate on this lower limit, Mr Grollitsch, is really a theoretical one and, basically, a polemic one if I may say so to you. We all know that this is basically a 10-percent deviation clause that has been limited to the top and the bottom. But at the time we knew about the lotteries' turnovers, and to want to explain to someone in the sport – as you obviously tried – that he must now be afraid of falling below the previous 400 million with this lower limit is not very serious. There's nothing to do with your post-declaration to the officials. That wasn't all right with you. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Then why is it there: 360?]] It does not come to bear, and that is the decisive! That hangs on a formalism is not serious. You were just insecure with some of the officials, and that was absurd and unnecessary and nothing but party-political little money. [[Abg. Leikam: They do it everywhere!]] A few points to the future. Sports has never been as popular as today. I think this can really be said about the active exercise of sports – in every age group more people than ever are active in sports – as well as – this is an unprecedented amount of passive consumption of sports. About the media, but also at the sports venues, in the stadiums we experience a real boom in relation to the visit. That is a good thing, but we must not explore the fact that we still have some open points to solve. Mr State Secretary! I must once again ask for the award guidelines for general sport promotion. I believed that we had already agreed that a proposal would come from your side. The issue of sports law is also strongly discussed at the moment, although I believe that those who demand it cannot at the moment imagine much of what it is supposed to include. The problems are obvious. There is, above all, a problem in professional sport of the labour and social status of the professional sportsman, who is not defined or difficult to classify. Keywords: Bosman judgment, which has brought many upheavals in sport, but also the status of regulatory and implementing provisions of associations and associations, which are increasingly undermined by civil courts or individual civil courts. We also have to find an answer to that, although I believe that the debate is only at the beginning. It cannot be managed without the involvement of the EU partner, and the problem cannot be solved without it. With a fairy tale related to school sports, I would like to clean up at this point. It is always claimed that the number of school sports events has declined. It is complained that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would have done fearsome things to sport with school autonomy. If you read Mrs. Lösnak's answer to your question, you can read it in a different way. It is true that both the number of non-binding exercises and the number of participants in the school’s sports weeks are getting up again, although one must say that a shift from the winter sports weeks to the summer sports weeks is taking place. That's right, but in itself not worthy of criticism. Of course, the tourism industry, especially the one based on winter sports, will not have any special pleasure with it. From the point of view of health policy and from the point of view of education, this is not to be criticised, but rather to welcome, because, as has been said, these figures rise and do not fall, as is always said from this point of view. One more question, Mr State Secretary, is addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs. There is recently the Healthy Austria Fund. We thank God for representing the project advisory board of this fund. Please help us to provide an adequate proportion of the 100 million schillings annually for preventive projects of sport, i.e. for health sports activities that are more widespread. Of course, the corresponding projects must be submitted by the sports associations, which is already clear. But please help with the fact that these funds can be actually provided by the Minister for Social Affairs. Finally, one last point: There are applications for large sporting events. Austria applied for the European Football Championship in 2004 and for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Klagenfurt. I believe that these applications have a bearing on the regional character and on the importance for the region as a whole. Sports is and remains a topic. Austria remains a topic abroad. And there's a very positive point to this: It succeeds in creating sports infrastructure through such events, as otherwise would probably not be feasible and financeable to this extent. At this point, I would also like to thank the Federal Government as a whole very much for the decisions already taken in connection with these applications to make the necessary infrastructure available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15732	Thank you very much, Mr Head of Parliament, for your print error correction, even though you had expressly renounced your speech as rapporteur. Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15757	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Before: We will not agree to this sports report, which is not because it does not address the major problems that still exist in the field of sport: No word about the massive problems for women in sports! Not a word about the massive problems that still exist in disability sports! It is not enough for me to be listed here who has received how many medals when and where. I don't expect that from a sports report. I really expect that not only dyeing is included in it, but the major problems, the unresolved problems, must also be dealt with in a sports report. However, they are not included in this sports report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15781	Mrs Fuchs is also on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15802	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! High house! In contrast to Mrs Haidlmayr, I am pleased to note this time in the sports report that there are two new chapters which have so far been given relatively little attention. But this time they can be found in the report for the first time, which is the chapter "Women in Sport" and "Sport and Health". I think there is certainly a lot to be done in these areas – as I do not want to be beautiful at all – but it has been a start, and I think it is really clear that in practice these issues have not only gained in importance in numbers. For the future, I would like these issues to be given even more weight and to be referred to as national matters in the report. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that women are massively underrepresented in almost all levels of organized sport. There's still a lot to pick up. But women do important basic work in many sports clubs. Especially in sports work with children, the proportion of women prevails, but as trainers, they are much less often represented in almost all sports than their male colleagues. Now I'm asking: What happens to the learned skills of these women, and why do so few choose to hit the coach career? – I think we should get closer to that. The low representation of women in sports decision-making bodies is even more evident. I very much regret that too. There is also a great deal to be done in the field of top sports in order to create the same starting conditions for women and men, although first successes can already be clearly seen through the inclusion of women in the HSNS. The next step must, however, be to increase the quota rates for women. Ladies and gentlemen! Our political objective must be to create a sport culture in which equal participation of women in all areas of sport is not only possible but also specifically promoted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A first step is taken, the next steps will follow. An exemplary step has been taken by the Women in Sport platform, which held its founding event in October 1997. The aim of this cross-organisational institution is to promote women-specific networking between the various bodies concerned with sport. It must be possible to initiate a process of change and to move those responsible in the sport to look and act. Now we are also in the line to look at and take on our political responsibility. This includes the topic of sports and health. As an ASKÖ official, I am proud to say that the ASKÖ really did pioneer work in this area. In principle, health must be more than the lack of disease, and prevention is known to be better than healing. Therefore, there is a wide range of sports activities that are very useful for the maintenance and improvement of health. I am thinking of slow running meetings for heart and circulatory, back training, pelvic flooring gymnastics and similar specific offers. A third issue that is very important to me is the sport of disabled people. Unfortunately, this has not been devoted to its own chapter in the sports report, although much is done in this area. I am thinking, for example, of the state championships held at the Bundessportszentrum Südstadt two weeks ago in the field of athletics, where the supervisors have shown great commitment and the athletes have achieved great achievements. Eight Austrian records were set up in the rainy rain. Thank you very much and my congratulations for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I call on Mr Wittmann, State Secretary, to document developments in these three areas in the next sports reports. But I also call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to contribute to increasing the weight of these issues in political practice and in the preparatory work on legislation in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15867	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15901	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A question concerns me right at the beginning: Mr State Secretary, every time I have time to look at a sports event in Austria, I see all the high officials on the important stadium of the Vienna Stadium – or wherever important stands are. I mean the really high officials, Mr Löschnak, that is, the German Chancellor and the State Secretary. These always laugh very camera effective and present themselves with scarf accordingly as fans. I admire that they always have time to participate in all these events. Mr State Secretary! My question: How many events in the youth sector have you been there in recent years? How many Austrian youth and student championships have you been in recent months, specifically in the field of athletics, Schilanglauf et cetera? – I missed you once again because I am a faithful visitor of such events, last weekend in Schwechat, because the Austrian youth athletics national championships took place there, and I did not find any of those who are always so camera effective when major events take place there. The importance of youth sports in Austria has just shown this event, and it would have been good if you had been there. In the short term, all start times had to be moved ahead. Because a very "important" football cup game between Schwechat and Vienna took place – these are really the most important clubs in Austria – one had to overturn the course of the complete Austrian youth championship. It had to start four hours earlier, and as soon as possible all participants had to leave the stadium. This is also a headline of how serious and how important the sports of young people are taken in Austria. I would like to stress this because the topic of youth sport is not really taken seriously in this sports report either. Above all, there is no mention of the very broad basis of sports research in schools in which there is no single word. [[Abg. Head: Who is not mentioned? Then in the next report!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of all parties! School sport is not mentioned with a word. I even mentioned the so important Cup game Schwechat – Vienna, to which at least 147 spectators have come. Half of this will have been paid for entry, and this has been enough to bring about the complete youth championship – where by the way Vorarlberger has made an excellent figure, such as Florian Heinzle; to the talent I congratulate you – to throw over the pile. Mr State Secretary! I urge you to: Try, as long as you still have this office, to give a slightly higher priority to youth sport. That would be a real concern to me, in all areas. Whether within the school or within the club – it is ultimately the youth sport that produces those athletes with which you are very happy to be photographed and filmed in the light of the running cameras. If you do more for the youth, you will also have more opportunity to present yourself with the top athletes who come out of this youth sport. That would be my concern about the sports report. And dedicate You'll be half a side to him next time, because that would be infinitely more than it is this time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15937	Mr Zweytick is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e15958	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Sports is the epitome of flexibility. Especially in today’s age – now more and more – it is not only performance, hobby or social sports that are booming in Austria, but it is clearly recognizable as well as health sports. It is capable of expanding and should be redefined by law and promoted more effectively by the state. I stay in youth sport because my previous speaker spoke of it. We know how much the youth in school education is called for and how sports activity is less promoted in this context – from primary schools, from elementary schools to higher schools. Today, and even in the future, in times of Internet communication and the computer, the people of childhood are exposed to a whole new kind of stress, but above all, to poverty of movement. To this end, sport will simply be an essential new and also important factor for society and for the future of the people of our country. We talk about sport, we report in the annual reports that we ourselves as politicians could be a pioneer here. I think that, as we are very often sitting here in plenary or in other rooms, we could perhaps carry out some preliminary discussion, brief discussion, communication within the political groups or even among ourselves in walking, moving, running or cycling in a park. I believe that we should talk about sport, but that we should better convince people of the need and importance of sports. We should not only demand this, but be a real model here and do something ourselves, not only for the children, but also for the elderly, adult people, who are also known to be very good at sports. The health situation of our fellow citizens is such that more and more people suffer heart attacks, and many recognize health too late as happiness and understand the importance of health. Only after a heart attack do they begin to rehabilitate with sports or various sports, then when their lifetime has almost expired. However, they recognize that sports is the only way out of lengthening their lives for a certain period of time. In addition, the undisputed economic factor in connection with sports events comes; these are not just any clubbings, but actually sports big events. This has not been understood by all, but in the long run, it does not lead any way past it. An example of this would be the Austrian ring. A few figures from the OGM market research institute. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This has nothing to do with sports!]] This already has to do with sport, because I have been talking about sport as an economic factor and have given an example: Of weatherly suitable 262 days a year, events could actually be held on 208 days. This has brought a number of 680 000 visitors. Sales without tickets of 306 million schilling less costs resulted in a net value added of 147 million schilling. The federal government and the country allowed another 145 million schillings of taxes. I would therefore like, again, Mr State Secretary, to call for 120 million schillings from the federal government at the time. To this day, no one has lost their way into this region. So you can see: It is important not only to be interested in health, but also to the economy and economy. I think the economy is aware of the importance of such events, such sporting events. This is why, in general, the society in Austria should be given greater support for interventions to promote sport in the future. The related jobs are a great opportunity for many people to also pursue new jobs, such as trainers, fitness trainers, masseurs or sports teachers in schools and the like. However, it is important to ensure that the necessary training or examination of these persons and the corresponding remuneration are ensured. Because there are the problems in that. On the one hand, there are many opportunities for sports activities for young people in particular, but on the other hand there is a lack of professional staff, because the small clubs lack the necessary capital in order to be able to afford themselves really well-trained trainers. This problem may not be recognized as such. While clubs are run so you can say: We already have a club where everything is offered. In reality, the whole process fails with the financial resources for efficient training and a truly efficient training. There is nothing going on, but for many young people or even older ones – including volunteer officials – it is often only a matter of time. Health sports must be said that fit people are more taxable and powerful. That is why I too – my colleague has already mentioned this – appeals to Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch to force the regular exercise of exercise of exercise as a measure of health care and to use an appropriate part of the funds of the Healthy Austria Fund for sports preventive projects. Furthermore, professional and adequate movement or sport education should be forced at all school ages. In the field of education and training, the teaching of teachers should ensure that only teachers who are fully trained in the field of physical education are used in the field of education. Furthermore, cooperation between school and non-school sport should be strengthened and supported. In line with its importance for tourism and the economy, sport must also be promoted by appropriate initiatives at home and abroad. To you, Mr State Secretary, and to Mr Bundeskanzler, the request is to support major events by creating the necessary sports facilities infrastructure. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The stadium in Graz!]] Not the stadium in Graz! In order to ensure a positive application by the public authorities for the 2004 European Championship, the necessary facilities in the country must be secured and the stadiums provided. The application for the European Championship 2004 is to be supported as much as possible. This also applies, of course, to the Olympic application of the candidate city of Klagenfurt for the orientation of the 2006 Winter Olympics. It should also be promoted and supported accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: A new stadium in Graz!]] More and more people recognize the importance of sports, how necessary and indispensable it is – today and tomorrow more than ever, and not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. Austrian sport is a daily representative of Austria, whether it be our football teams or athletes in all areas. It is also necessary for women to acknowledge this, because they perform great achievements and thereby make international advertising for Austria. Remember this picture of the Ö-ring with the blue sky, the green, well-kept Alps and the hundreds of thousands of people. That was seen by 800 million people worldwide, and that is simply an priceless advertising factor, an indispensable part. A federal law over 30 years old therefore requires an innovation boost. At that time, at the fireplace talks between Sallinger and Sinowatz, it was certainly very warm, today things are already cold and stagnating in development. High house! I therefore ask you to position public sport together more tighter, clearer, stronger and more positive, and also to give this project a corresponding turbo by the state, so that in all levels of population, young or old, it becomes clear that we are also a model for Europe. I think this bill would go on, she'd make herself paid. We could all be happy with it, and I think that we would also do a good thing with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16026	Mr Wittmann, President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16048	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the questions raised today, but before that I would like to point out that this report on 1996 has been subject to a very comprehensive and detailed discussion in the subcommittee on sports. In the course of this discussion, it became clear how cross-ministerial this matter is, how many ministries of sport are located, which is why a coordination function of the Federal Chancellor's Office is certainly necessary. We have also discussed the question that 1998 should be the breakdown of the German sports homes. – Member of the Grollitsch! It is not a privatisation, it is a breakdown of the Bundessportheime. I have tried to explain several times that there is a very serious difference between the two concepts. We do not want to develop a new competition for the existing hotel buildings, but we want a new form of organisation for our federal sports homes, that is, we want to ensure a more cost-effective and cost-transparent leadership. However, the State must continue to carry out the task of sports. So these sports homes will not become tourist establishments, but they are still available for sport. This was the background in which there was not a sale or privatisation, but a breakdown of sports homes. As you know, we have been very sensitive to the Infora study and have summarized the relevant sports homes – they are known to you – in a GesmbH. We have tried to make some sports homes available to those sports associations of which they are used exclusively or for the most part. For example, for St. Christoph and the Kitzsteinhorn, an agreement has been reached with the ÖSV and with regard to the Spittrberg with the Aero-Club. Secondly, With regard to Olympia 2000, I would like to clarify the following: We have always said that declarations of assurance are necessary by the State, but the declaration of guarantee referred to in the request you have made has included a sum which has not corresponded to reality, since the corresponding sum is only now determined or the actual costs of application have to be calculated. In order to ensure serious legislation, we need to know what it costs. If the costs are on the table and the application receives the supplement, one will create the corresponding legal instrument. So we're not going to make a law until we don't know if we get the supplement. This is only necessary at the time of the award; we have experience from already focused Olympic games. That is why this request was clearly too early, it was also not correct in view of the height and, in my opinion, it only served to set up a political demonstration act. Today, the question – I can sum up an entire complex – of youth sport has also been raised. As far as youth sport is concerned, I do not want to take up events that have been visited, this is a process that has nothing to do with political responsibility, but I am right to say that youth sport is one of the most important challenges for the future and that we must be concerned about the integration of school sport and youth sport. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No! It's important! Schwechat – Vienna!]] We have already set several activities in this direction this year. I should like to point out that we only conclude contracts with the respective trainers if they commit themselves that, if they receive a federal grant to their coach contract, they also spend a few hours in schools to do targeted training there with the young people and thus gain one or the other for the sport which the trainers each conveys. That is a concrete measure in this direction. In addition, an event was introduced that was extended throughout Austria this year, called "Sport Hits For Kids". A full range of young people are being studied, while at the same time an event is held in the district centres, where all sports clubs in the district can present themselves. Thus, the youth who has completed the sports motor tests and now knows what he is suitable for, can immediately select the appropriate association and get to know the responsible ones there. As a result, young people are increasingly fed to club sports. We started this action last year with a pilot project and will perform it throughout Austria this year in the large agglomerations. This results in a comprehensive study of the respective school years, while at the same time a specialised outcome is given to the individual young people and their parents, which informs them of which sport is suitable for young people. Mr Zweytick! As far as major events are concerned, I can only give you the right. We believe that we should conduct major events. It should be noted that in 1999 we set up the Nordic Ski World Championship, that we will set up the Alpine Ski World Championship in 2001 and that we will join Hungary – I think it is particularly beautiful – for the 2004 European Football Championship. It was not always easy to make such an application, but it was, I believe, a very big throw that we were able to explain it throughout Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are we still building a stadium in Graz?]] We have five stages and not four stages, as it would be the minimum requirement. So we are far beyond that, and there are already the relevant government decisions. We will make a very interesting application for the orientation of the Olympic Games. I can assure you that this application is now in very order, that the preparation is very careful and that there is already a detailed preparation of the costs of the sports facilities and also the other infrastructure. At the end of September we will submit this application together with the Austrian Olympic Committee. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What happens in this context to the Graz stadium?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Listen!]] With regard to the problem of school sport and school autonomy, and the fact that school sports are not included in the 1996 sports report, I must say that, although the invitation to the Ministry of Education has been made to participate in the 1996 sports report. The Ministry of Education has rejected this. We will try again for the 1997 report, and I believe that it will then be followed by a joint report or by the involvement of school sport in the report. On the question of leisure policy and sport, which was put by Mr Peter, I would like to say briefly that the Federal Chancellery has essentially the task of supporting top-level sport with its means of sport promotion. The top-level sport promotion is carried out in a very detailed and rigorous manner by the High-Function Committee. We have succeeded in bringing together the funds of the countries, the federal government, the Olympic Committee and other sponsors in order to ensure a targeted preparation for major events, say Olympic Games or World Championships. We have also tried this year to implement a number of things in the legal field. The distribution of federal sports facilities has already been mentioned. With regard to the restructuring of the Austrian Antidoping Committee, the foundation was created to establish an association for it and to clarify the issue of liability. Because errors in an examination of an athlete can lead to huge claims for damages. That too could be clarified. In my opinion, we have found a direction-setting approach, namely through the cooperation of the federal government and countries, to ensure a truly comprehensive investigation of cases of doping. We have also managed to enforce the binding of the special sports promotions to the gambling law. In my opinion, today's remarks have shown that we have done very well, because they have achieved a substantial increase in the amount. Furthermore, in the field of sport, a more favourable application of the Social Insurance Act could be maintained, so that the officials of the Sports Associations continue to have the advantage necessary to ensure this retention which the associations have through the work of the so-called small officials. We will work to ensure that the HSNS is legally anchored and that we have a single quota for women – that is, I am on the topic of women – because a quota of women must not go at the expense of those quotas which were already in place before. There must be an extension of the quota and thus additional places for women. On this issue, we must not measure by two measures, in which I give you absolutely right. It is necessary to enforce a quota of its own for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The accusation that the problem of disabled sport has not been addressed in this sports report goes empty. Especially in 1996 there was recognition of the sport of disabled persons within the framework of the BSO. We use 4.8 million schilling for top-ranking sports in the disabled sector and try to achieve a strengthening of its image through the Paralympic Committee. I believe that, in the last two years, the sport of disabled people has experienced a significant anchorage in our policy. We will also be able to demonstrate this through the EU sport festival, as we have also included the disabled in this Europe-wide meeting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to address a particular problem. Austria, in particular, places a very specific emphasis on sport in the EU during its presidency. There will be several events to achieve a remote anchoring of the sport in the contract. I believe that these measures in Europe are going to be a great cause for concern. We will try, through a sports director's conference, through a sports forum with expert exchange and ultimately through a Troika ministerial meeting, to take appropriate political preparatory steps to have at least a discussion on the anchoring of an article on sport in the event of a change in the contract and to finally provide a basis for decision. I think this is an important concern and I should also like to refer to our youth sports festival on this weekend, to which 29 countries have been invited. 29 delegations were also sent, who were cared for by 29 cities in Austria and attended by 29 schools in Vienna to participate in the sporting event. A declaration has been drawn up which will be passed on to the Federal Chancellor in his capacity as EU President. In this, young people have discussed the development of sport at European level. This declaration has been discussed on the Internet since May. I also believe that this is a direction, because there has not yet been any such event at European level. This makes it clear that Austria has a clear focus on sport at European level. I hope I have been able to clarify the questions raised here with my comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16148	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Mr Brix has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16173	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's "Kurier", a journalist writes under the accelerator "M.S." – I suppose it is Martin Sörös – in a gloss under the title "The Exhaustion" that 525 000 Austrians, around 60 000 less than in the first half of the year, had seen the game Bordeaux against Rapid. He also writes in this gloss that the population, that the television viewers were already exhausted by the many football games that were shown. Finally – I quote – he writes: "Sometimes one will insist that it does not serve the matter to cease and to transfer everything. So football becomes everyday life. To everyday life, for example, one can relax by thinking that there is also a sports world away from football. A very beautiful world." I say this today as someone who is himself a passionate football player and who experiences a lot of joy with his team. Because probably the Austrian record champion Rapid is the most successful Austrian football club at all, and he has many successes this week too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] But I also say it because this gloss simply shows that there are only three "spare elephants" – that is what you might call them – who get all the money through television, while more than 90 percent of the sport loses the sponsorship that comes back on television. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Take good care! That's what he says!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so necessary and so important that sport, youth sport, money, public money, public subsidies. Mr State Secretary, we, the Austrian Swimming Association, are really grateful for the fact that, after the valorization of sports equipment was stopped – and this has struck us like a tumble – it has finally become possible to get money through the adaptation of the gambling law. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who's playing on TV? The Volksbank is the sponsor!]] "Getting money" I emphasize, only it has not happened to this day. The Bundessportsorganisation, which instructs and sends the money to the associations, cannot prove it because the 20 million to be made available after we have – I think it was decided before the summer – not yet come to the disbursement. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the sport – and this concerns 90 percent of sport, those sports, which are so-called basic sports and are very important, but are actually downgraded by the television elephants to peripheral sports – will be stopped! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (Applause) Bravo! It's good, Otmar!]] Mr Federal Minister, I ask you not only to let it be used in the decision of this law, but not only to say that it has done something for sport, but that this money is also paid out. It goes even further: Today we have spoken on the 1999 budget in the Federal Sports Organisation's Special Committee, and the financial distributor has already been sent out. But when you call the General Secretariat of the Federal Sports Organisation, you get to hear: Dear friend, we have created the budget because of the 400 million – that's the old amount – because of the 40 million we are to get in 1999, nothing can be heard either. I therefore ask you from this point of view: If everyone admits to sports here, then this should not be a lip confession, not by the government, but then what we have promised and what we have decided by law should also be fulfilled. We need the sport needs the money! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and Dr. Grollitsch.]] High house! Let me nevertheless make a second comment, a note relating to top-level sport. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Vienna against Schwechat, last week!]] The top sports committee is certainly a very, very good establishment, and in this top sports committee the representatives of the Austrian Olympic Committee, the representatives of the government, the representatives of the countries and the representatives of the Bundessportsorganisation sit. - Excuse me! The sports aid. I'm correcting: The fourth representatives are those of sports aid. Now, the countries, at least some federal states, want to disembark themselves from it by saying: The funds we want to make available to top sports cannot be paid by us in the pot, but – that's quite nice – we have one, two, three, four, five athletes, good athletes in our country, and – here perhaps you can implement something tactically – we give them the money directly. Mr State Secretary! If I have said first, please make sure that the money is paid out, I thank you now for You said here: If the countries jump away from it, we will act as State Secretary, as a government and pay the money in this pot, so that top athletes can also get it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really about top sports. How high this top-ranking sport is, you can see that at the last meeting of the EOC Board before the summer, the man responsible for summer sports, President Kucera, said that only those athletes are eligible for funding, who at least become tenths at the Olympic Games in Sydney. Well, that means something to be represented as a small Austria in the middle of this world peak as a tenth! We also need money to do this, and therefore it cannot be assumed that countries here are making sidesteps and saying that we are paying our athletes the money itself, even though it cannot properly calculate it then. That is why, Mr State Secretary, once again: For your idea that you want to pay this, I thank you. However, I would also ask for rapid implementation here. My speaking time is almost over. In this House, let me pass on another one to those who also deserve it: We have stated in Austrian swimming sport that all those who have to do in the European associations of swimming sport, because we are proud that our federal state of Carinthia would host the winter games senza confini, will stand for it everywhere and make lobbyism so that this federal country, which is so committed to sports, will also receive these Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16283	Mr Dr Höchtl was also mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16305	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What are you going to say?]] It could be said that it is now the round of the individual sports association presidents, because everyone in their area – whether for swimming, for tobogganing, for football, for skiing – takes a position. [[Abg. Leikam: Tobogganing!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell us once what it is like as President tobogganing!]] But I believe that if we have started to discuss the need for social policy some time ago, as society is becoming more and more committed, because that is the future as a whole, then there is no doubt that sport is an area in which this commitment by many, not just by just a few, but by thousands of people, represents this civil society, this committed in-the-society being. [[Abg. May. Posch: When tobogganing, it's sausage!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Honourable!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have about 13 000 sports clubs in Austria. These 13 000 sports clubs, which operate in all the municipalities of Austria, represent, with their army of volunteers, the army of persons who are involved in society, who are making themselves available to others and whom we can say, without their existence, without their willingness to engage, this breadth would not be imaginable in sports and in the offer of sports. That is why I would like to say: If we are discussing a sports policy today about a sports report, we should say a warm thank you for years, above all for those more than a hundred thousand people who volunteer in these 13,000 associations for this voluntary service. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Böhacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has been left out by one or the other about the structure, about the possibilities of changing this structure. It doesn't really matter to me as much as many different associations or associations there are, whether those are three that we have as umbrella associations, or x professional associations. I believe that in 1969, when this Federal Sports Organisation Act was passed and this multitude was merged into a roof organization, namely the Federal Sport Organisation, we set a milestone because it created a common voice tube for the interests of sport. I mean, Mr Grollitsch, it really doesn't matter what reason these umbrella associations – whether they were the Union, the ASKÖ or the ASVÖ – have been created for, one thing is clear: For these thousands of clubs, they create the chance to support themselves so that these hundreds of thousands of sports enthusiasts will have the opportunity to engage in their sporting activities. Whether they are oriented in this way or not, the main thing is that they fulfil an essential task, namely to be active for those interested in sports. Whether these are two, three or five roof associations, it doesn't matter. I believe that in this respect, we should be committed to a structure that has grown, and I would like to do so here today on the speaker's desk for everyone. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third comment: A few months ago, we took part in a joint action, and we are trying to bring out a number of millions in the special sport promotion for 1998 and 1999. I believe that, as always, it is positive that for sport in 1998 and 1999 there is a significant increase of 5 per cent and 10 per cent. That is what the individual associations need. But what we must do together at the same time is to be careful in time to ensure that the corresponding amounts continue to develop in the following time, because that is what the corresponding officials expect from us politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! This brings me back to the last question: Sports policy. What's that at all? Is there anything like that at all? – I believe that the only thing we understand by sports policy is that we create the necessary, meaningful and useful framework conditions so that these hundreds of thousands of interested people can exercise sports properly. The financial, the organisational, but also, of course, the social security opportunities, the training possibilities et cetera – all this is what we understand under sports policy, whether this is in school, in the club, at the universities or anywhere. I believe that we have a mission to do so, and if we fulfil this task together for the benefit of all, then it is not a red, a black, nor a blue, or a green, or whatever, sports policy, but a sports policy that the interests of the people who want to carry out sports are considered correct and important. That is why we say a sincere yes to this sports report, which lists some of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16405	Mrs Beder is still speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16427	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The sports report we are discussing here today has also been discussed in detail in subcommittee meetings, and it has been very interesting for us to learn the opinions of the various experts from the ministries. Trends have already been addressed today, and I mean, the trend sports may also belong to mountain biking. Of course, we are concerned again and again, because it is still true that some routes do not fail to do with illegitimate property owners, but they – and I think that we should be particularly committed to this – should not fail at country borders. I think that such routes are also very favourable for tourism. One can imagine the regions, perhaps also the specialties of the region. I think it'd be a good idea to open some of the routes. I am also not in favour of opening up everything, but I think it is great that we have a distance of over 350 kilometres with an altitude of 8,000 metres in the Styria from Ramsau to Mürzzuslag. This makes a few demands on the athletes. I know that there are petitions from Members in the Committee on Petitions and I hope that they will be discussed soon. We are thinking in Styria of having cycle paths in a length of 1,960 kilometres by the year 2003. Unfortunately, it is only often that national roads are partly worse developed than the cycle paths. Yes, it is. Cycling is healthy – Mr. Fuchs has already addressed the topic of sport and health – but I think, of course, sports is only healthy if you regularly run it. I would like to talk a little bit about football, because the Austrian Football Association is getting funds from federal sports promotion through the Federal Sports Promotion Act, and we are now allowed to talk a bit along in the Styria. Unfortunately, I only find it when such growth occurs, as happened last year in Graz, where after the winter of the lawn, which had become a little brown, it was improved and painted green for the optics, which at that time cost 50 000 to 60 000 s. If, on the other hand, I consider that small clubs, for example the clubs of the regional league or the lower classes, have far too little money to afford a coach, or if I think of other structures that really only maintain their activities by idealists, then I think that is not the right way. I am glad that at least by means of the tent festival, there is also a possibility for sports clubs to be able to secure their existence. If we look at the sports report, I would like to point out that on page 43 the Schihandelsschule Schladming is praised. A training course was also set up there so that the graduates of the trade school have the opportunity to take the Matura. I am very glad, Mr State Secretary, that there will also be this sports specialist, whom you have already told us about in committee, because it should be so that the young people, the young people who run sports, also have a professional security. It won't be long, it's only 150 days until the opening of the Nordic sliding championships in Ramsau am Dachstein. Preparations are on high speeds. I hope, of course, that in these home world championships, our athletes will also succeed. There have been enormous funds from the Federation and also from the country there, the support commitments have all been respected, the only thing we absolutely need there is snow. But I hope with some good intercessions we will also have snow at this time. I wish all of us fair and interesting competitions, and I hope that some of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be present in Ramsau. Mr. State Secretary! I know it is a difficult task, but I think you have to make sure that the sport of widths and the top-notch sport is properly promoted, and I think – and I am sure you will make an effort – that this will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16479	Mr Grollitsch has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16500	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brix, a well-educated, hard-wearing trade union president of the Swimming Association, has animated me, but once again to say a word on the promotion of sports, after Mr Lösnak promised me by my colleague, Mr Lösnak, by the flowering stupidity, at least ignorance and also by you, just because the liberals dared to set in July the lower limit for the promotion of sports with the 400 million schilling of 1995 negotiated and not with the amount fixed by the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State over the table, with 380 million for 1998 and with 360 million for 1999. – Mr Brix gave us an impressive description of the way the payout looks. I am not going to let myself and us say, as Mr Hasenöhrl said, that the liberals have opposed sport just because they have put the lower limit on sports promotion higher than you have in your optimism. The word "unity" has fallen. I have found the reports of the Lotto-Toto-Society and the figures of the company which are quite impressive. Mr Löschnak, you are right if the sales are kept for 1997 and 1998, the amount of 420 million schilling is slightly inside. If I make, for example, the sales of 1994, then 3 per cent is 338 million. There was an increase to 1995 of 30.5% due to the rubbleless and the like. I do not now know what is more uncertain: if one leaves a lower limit of 360 million Schilling in 1999 and hopes that there will be enough jackpots for Austria's sport, so that the professional associations have enough money, or if one withdraws the minimum limit that Mr Chancellor Vranitzky has granted us and which has been repeated by climate, i.e. this 400 million schilling. Nothing else have we wanted, and you have, I fear, deliberately misunderstood us. One last: Mr State Secretary! A year ago, we submitted a five-party proposal indicating that Austria's school youth should be equipped with more sporting possibilities up to the students. At the time, it was agreed that we should try to establish university sports in conjunction with the sport for professional universities and counter the degradation of university sports. Unfortunately, we have not been able to agree on such a request this year. I would ask you to pay special attention to your support to this existing vacuum in student sports and in the sport of the growing number of high school students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16541	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? This is not the case. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the place in order to be able to vote quickly. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request, 13. The Federal Chancellor's Sport Report 1996 – III-99 of the Supplements – should be taken note of. If you want to do so, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The sports report has been taken note of. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 1 to 5 and 7 to 31, 48 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 1 to 13 (1286 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16590	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16617	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. It is known that this institution has been dealing with petitions and citizens' initiatives since 1989. It is therefore a question of bringing citizens' concerns to Parliament, of bringing them to bear. What actually happens? – This committee is an assignment committee, which is a better place of entry, which then indicates to which Federal Ministries, which offices, which authorities or other organisations are referred to to request an opinion. A committee without competence: It is not for or against a concern, but it acknowledges that the selection is made. Hearings are taking place. The President-in-Office of the Council has certainly made great efforts. Nevertheless, this committee is in the form in which we find it here, toothless. In part, the hearings are informative, I admit, but in part they only represent a platform, a stage to present themselves to the public in the desired way. If I want to take out one of the petitions mentioned in this report, for example, the petition No. 10, "Stop of the flood of law", is particularly good. Well, who's not annoyed about expatriate bureaucracy? - Everyone. Farms are both annoyed and employed. Everyone knows that they are flooded with laws. So that's certainly a citizen's affair. President Maderthaner took it up and filed a petition entitled "Stop of the Flood of Law". This was done in 1996, but parallels are also noted. It's always very good if you decide everything on the one hand, but then outside, depending on what audience you're in front of, says: It's incomprehensible what's happening here. President Maderthaner has just delivered examples in a variety, according to the motto: Talk like that and act like that. That's, like I mean, two pairs of shoes. I only recall, for example, the health certificate fee, the employee protection law, the drinking tax. This has been inflated, the host hosts have been asked to collect signatures. This all happened. It was similar with the contract regulations. Thus, outside, in front of the respective clientele, was spoken against, and in this space the law was then decided. The stage "Economic Committee for Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives" was therefore very well used. Now the question has to be asked: What happens in the future? – It’s going to work on what’s nice somewhere, and that’s what’s less pleasant, it’s being dragged away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is to say, it will be buried in committees and these petitions and citizens' initiatives disappear. At the end of the legislative period, this initiative also died, and it is not that it is automatically introduced in the following period of treatment. For example, in the Constitutional Committee alone, I have seven petitions from 1996, which have not been dealt with. So there is a shady democracy here, the possibility of a citizen's participation, the possibility of becoming an initiative, but reality is another. If the Committee continues its work in this form and it is not given any change, then the government parties must also be accused of working only with a policy of democracy. It is also striking, ladies and gentlemen, how to deal with unpleasant petitions, for example, with the petition that my colleague Aumayr has made, that a popular desire with more than 500,000 signatures should be automatically and forcefully necessary a referendum. Here – well supported by the two so-called small opposition parties – was argued: In Austria, 500 000 people are quickly found to express themselves for the death penalty. I find it very difficult to take this seriously, nor to do so when opposition parties vote unisono and want to know this attitude, this petition is being treated negatively, which, during the last elections – neither one nor the other – did not succeed in achieving this number of votes, namely 500 000. Apart from the fact that it is evident that there is no interest in actually participating in the political process to the extent that it is responsible and necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16673	Mrs Fuchs is also on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16694	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is not one of the bodies of the National Council, which are often found in day-to-day policy. However, the 17 MEPs who are concerned about the concerns of the citizens in this body fulfil one of the basic duties of the People's Office, namely to accept the problems of citizens not only in general but also in person. No state, no society, no bureaucracy and no political institution is infallible. Any still so sophisticated law and any government regulation still so thoroughly thought out can in practice show shortcomings or have gaps. That is why the importance of this committee should be clearly seen. I see this at least as opposed to my predecessor of the opposition. We held a total of three hearings between 1996 and 1998 in addition to eight meetings, to which experts and stakeholders were invited. However, we have also distanced ourselves from the treatment of two petitions and three citizens' initiatives. In connection with the Citizens' Initiative on the legal recognition of the blind dog as an aid and a service dog in Austria, a demonstration of the Austrian Blind Association took place in the vicinity of the Parliament building. In this context, trained blind dogs demonstrated their abilities as partners of the visually impaired. In principle, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has addressed, in many cases, the Federal Ministries, the Public Prosecutors and other authorities or organisations with the request for opinions, to prepare their decisions on individual concerns. As chairman of the Committee, I would like to stress the overall good cooperation with the institutions mentioned here and thank me for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We were able to achieve a first success in the petition No. 3, "Bus and Railway for All – Resolution for a Equality Act", which has been introduced by numerous disabled organisations. In the initiative jointly presented by all five parliamentary groups, the Signatories called for public transport to be equipped with disabilities, and on the initiative of the SPÖ Club, the Constitutional Committee and finally the National Council meeting of 9 May was set up. In July 1997, the Federal Constitutional Act was amended and an explicit ban on discrimination against disabled people was adopted. A second major success in this legislative period was achieved in connection with the No. 8.................................................................................................................................... This involved "the legal recognition of the blind guide dog as an aid and service dog in Austria". The request to the National Council called for the necessary legal and political framework to be established for the recognition of the rehabilitation dog. Following the assignment of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, it had requested the adoption of a resolution. The National Council, known as the National Council, decided by majority in June 1998 and has therefore fully complied with the intention of this citizens' initiative. We have also decided that a representative or a representative of the People's Procuratorate will take part in the Committee's deliberations. As part of this cooperation, there will be a direct contact point for citizens in the future with regard to their problems. The public prosecutor's know-how in conjunction with the dedicated members of the Petitions Committee certainly offers a positive form of cooperation in the interest and service of the people's concerns. But we want to pay more attention to this area in the future. What this could look like in detail, however, should be the subject of a detailed content discussion which has already begun in my group. The aim is for every citizen and every citizen in the Committee on Petitions to find a point of contact where work is done quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16752	The next speech is by Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16771	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen. As a member of this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I actually do not agree with the final products of the discussions on this committee. We have been able to say again and again that good work is being done in this committee: Of the 44 petitions and citizens' initiatives, only three have been adopted by majority vote, all others have gone on stage unanimously, and that means that the climate in this committee is good. – But what happens then? The chairman, Mrs Fuchs, also said: The work we are doing on this committee is right. But I personally ask: Where is the success of this Committee on Petitions? Where will the petitions discussed in this committee be forwarded? Where are they? And there, ladies and gentlemen, I see no success! I do not see any success if we wait up to two years before a petition request is dealt with in any parliamentary committee at all. This is for me a drag-off of ideas, and I think that's not the right way! I would like to add something: A model for other committees would also be that, as is the case in this committee, the concerns and also the requests of the opposition will be taken seriously, and that in fact only the government parties are always in unilateral rejection. In my opinion, this is a sample of nails for the government parties, whether they really hold something of citizens' concerns and take each petition more seriously. We will see what the citizens of the ÖVP and the SPÖ are really worth. The petition No. 29, "The State's money – the employee's rights", for example, is for me a petition request that should be implemented as soon as possible. For if there are points in this petition proposal that do not even comply with the collective agreement, which is why a fair collective agreement is called for – as an example only the transport industry – then I believe that this petition should be dealt with more quickly and should not remain for years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I think it is worrying that there is such a massive wave of citizens' desire, because these express nothing but dissatisfaction with the legal and social conditions in our country. I believe that this is to be reconsidered, because the citizen simply doesn't know how to help himself and seeks to get air through petitions. In my view, the many petitions and citizens' desires are due to the bad laws made by this government coalition. There is little consideration for the needs of the population. The focus of this government policy is on stress and holes and therefore a bad policy. I fear, however, that this government will simply ignore the citizens' concerns raised by petitions. That is why my appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition: At last, make better laws! Make sure you have a civil and civilised administration, and finally take the concerns of the population seriously! For then the citizen no longer has to give up petitions to the legislator.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16814	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16832	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I believe that the Committee on Petitions demonstrates at least one thing: that it is possible to work well and unanimously across five parties. I think we all know that it is important to make improvements in this committee. However, I believe that the approach to achieve joint solutions is a very good one which is lacking in most other areas and committees in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, it is certainly also important to mention the cooperation of the Ministries and those of the People's Procuratorate. I think that this cooperation contributes substantially to the success and at least to small successes of this committee, and I would like to mention some of these small or great successes: Following the hearing on the petition "Bus and rail for all – resolution for equality", the Constitution has succeeded in enshrining the disabled, and I believe that this is a very great success that this committee can benefit from. I also expect the Minister for Social Affairs to present a proposal for a solution as regards the "partner dog" petition. The motion for a resolution was tabled before the summer. That too, I think, is a success. In general, I believe that the Committee on Petitions has upgraded its work with the hearings because high-quality experts were present in all the hearings who were able and willing to really explain the problem in detail. The petition "Stop of the Flood of Law" was mentioned here, which with 123,000 signatures was one of the greatest petitions at all. I think it is not right, Mr Hofmann, to say that nothing has yet been achieved. A first step has been taken with the redefinition of the federal law paper, which is now clearly designed. There have also been administrative simplifications in other areas. However, I also know that the desire for a follow-up bill, to the sectors of the economy, is still open to the desire for a legislative service. I think the board has set up a very good initiative with "One Shop Stop", which shows how to live administrative simplification as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A hearing, unfortunately not so successful, was the petition No. 27 "Austrian Note – Preciseisation of the Radio Law", which I still see as an important goal. The ORF was invited, which was represented by the current general innender Weis, to which the request and commission were addressed that Austrian artists should be more represented in the ORF in order to be seen and heard more. I believe that we should now, since the intention of the House, also have the opportunity to realize this petition, once again appeal to him to implement it. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In general, I also believe that this report reflects a great success of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, in particular with regard to the citizens' initiative to ban anti-personnel mines. In this There has been a great deal of progress in this area. Austria has a very strict law on this, has been internationally leading and has also been able to bring in its experience at international level. I believe that this is a great success, due not least to the efforts in Austria and to this citizens' initiative. Today we talked about the suffering of children who, in wars, become the poorest and most innocent sufferers of the conflicts, for example, through mines. I believe that a great success has also been achieved in this respect, and not least this success has resulted in the Nobel Peace Prize being awarded to this global initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are serious about this collective report and the work of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, we must do more in the future to consider the Committee's work even more thoroughly. I believe that we agree on this point. It is likely that there should be time limits for both positive and negative procedures in order to create transparency. It would also be positive if not only opinions were obtained, but one would also get a report from the committees to which it was assigned, whether and in what law the content of the petition or citizens' initiative has been incorporated, what one could do and how it would affect. I believe that this too would serve the purpose of transparency in the interests of citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we still have a lot of work in front of us, because I think we should promote petitions and citizens' initiatives, especially from the political point of view. We need to involve the citizens. In this context, I am looking at you, Mrs Aumayr, because I do not think it makes sense and purpose of the Committee on Petitions that a Member should make a petition with a signature. You have other possibilities! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] For the petition "Stop of the Flood of Law" there were 123,000 signatures, that was not a petition with a signature! I think we should not abuse this instrument politically. I think we should force the citizens' initiatives, because in reality the citizens' initiatives are the cost-effective, though less spectacular, sisters of popular desire. I am thinking here of the petitions of Mayor Mühlbachler. Because the popular desires cost taxpayers, no matter whether they represent this opinion or not, very, very many millions. I think that your party should also make a cost-benefit account for this. In general, I think we have a lot left in this committee. I am thinking of the youth popular desire, I am also thinking of the signature action on the citizens' initiative against child abuse "Don't look away!", and I am thinking of the great chapter of the clubs. I believe, after we have the sports report, that the issue of mountain biking must be dealt with, which we hope will agree on. I am thinking of home travel aid, because, especially in rural regions, there are great injustices in this context, so this must finally be realized. We need to create and set timeframes. I think the Committee's work is positive, and it must be upgraded because it is a direct line from the citizen to the Parliament and is really the only rail and possibility in this regard. We should lay this track wider and build it up! That's what I wish!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16931	The next speaker is Mr Koller. He wishes the time sign to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e16952	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals are in favour of a bourgeois policy. People's desires, petitions and citizens' initiatives are the democratic roots of a bourgeois policy. The demands for closer proximity and increased transparency must finally be taken seriously! If you cut the rights of the opposition by the government parties, go in the wrong direction and lead the citizens around on the nose! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens strive and bring in well-founded petitions. However, their completion and implementation are lacking. Many of the petitions brought in were moved on the devil's favorite piece of furniture, that is, to the long bench. Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, I would like to refer to the petition No. 28: "Measuring obligation to enter genetically modified seeds". The crasher of the coalition in the treatment of the genetic engineering people's desire in favour of the genetic engineering lobby has not only come to mind our liberals, but also the 1.2 million signers of popular desire. It should have been seen as a task and an obligation to make Austria a free genetic engineering zone. In the Committee on Agriculture, Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Molterer said that all points were fulfilled and that this petition was unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen! After an in-depth debate, however, the Minister had to admit that the national law of the producer country applies to imported vegetable seed and therefore cannot be guaranteed that this is free of genetic engineering. The same is true of feed, in which only maize and soya are subject to labelling requirements. But what about the side effects? These are not marked. – The current situation is making farmers insecure, especially organic farmers, because they do not know what is contained in seeds and in feed. However, the liability lies with the producer, i.e. with the farmer. Minister Bartenstein wants to introduce a pickerl, costs about 12 000 S to 50 000 S; that is, additional loads for our organic farmers! Ladies and gentlemen! The traceability of the free production of the individual raw materials and ingredients of a food must also be complete in the seeds. This is not possible, because even if a farmer completely abandons genetic engineering and leaves it out of play, it is impossible to exclude with a 100% certainty that genetically engineered seed has been used. Summary: We demand a complete label. Farmers, especially organic farmers, must not be asked to cash out. Consumers and final consumers should not be deceived. We liberals do not represent the genetic engineering lobby like you from the ÖVP, but we liberals represent the concerns of the citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17001	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17020	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Državni Secretary! Visoki Dom! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, I was a little native of this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. At that time we had the illusion that we were going to create a strong body here in the house, which will really work close to the citizen, which will really take action. We had the dream that Parliament, especially the government parties, would like to go to the house here too. Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to the government representatives here today, I have to say: It's just a pity! I do not understand that you have so many concerns in the Committee on Petitions, which are things you could actually do within the framework of your government. That's incomprehensible to me! Ladies and gentlemen! We must take petitions seriously. These are serious concerns of citizens, of those concerned, often also of personal problems to be dealt with. The petitions must also be taken seriously in the sense that someone has tried to make the effort and to express his concern. It is natural that he should address these petitions to a body elected by the people and therefore should be close to the people. What I do not understand, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that a number of petitions have been made by members of the government who are trying to raise themselves by means of a petition or a citizens' initiative within the Committee on Petitions. It is incomprehensible that concerns which can, of course, be treated quite normally in the framework of government are suddenly presented as petitions! This is unacceptable and a plantation of the citizen, ladies and gentlemen. This also gives the citizen who submits something the feeling that this is actually pointless, because the concern comes into a sort of drawer, so to speak. It used to be the president's drawer, now it's our committee's drawer. That is why we must break our heads on how we make this committee an efficient body, ladies and gentlemen. In many petitions, brought by Members, I actually see an abuse of this institution, for example in the petition No. 29 on the problems of working time in the field of transport. A Social Democratic Minister is already in charge of this! She's got to do this! She's supposed to put the necessary templates in the house, then you'll be able to change that. There is an interior minister, there is a labour inspectorate, there are controls. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is a misuse of the institution when petitions by representatives of the government parties are brought in by members of the government! There is the petition No. 21 according to which a socialist MP also cares about the arrants of federal roads. Ladies and gentlemen! You're ruling! You can fix that! You don't need petitions. That's abuse! I would also like to say, with regard to the petition concerning home students: There's a family minister in charge. I want him to do this! Mr Maderthaner also put himself first and said: Less laws! End with the flood of law! – Ladies and gentlemen! He's sitting here and making this flood of law! You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This committee is a harmless committee. However, it must also be noted that it is also an interface at which it becomes clear how sloppy politics is made by the government parties. We have to find out: There is currently only one successful petition, namely the petition No. 4: It concerns the disabled. However, this concern was actually enforced, above all, thanks to the constant pressure of the disabled associations and also of the Members of Parliament who represent the disabled in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyway: We must also discuss the Rules of Procedure in this committee. We need to think about how we increase effectiveness. We need to think about how, for example, we are taking up and reporting certain matters of the Public Prosecutor's Office so that we can find out what happened to them. It is now not a question of suffocating in formulations. The concerns expressed by the citizens individually or in groups are usually very clear, although often not very appropriate or very useful – I would like to say – for a request. The concerns are to be taken seriously and to be dealt with seriously. It is not a question of simply sending such a petition to, for example, the Committee on Health or to another committee, and then everything at the end of the legislative period falls in the basket. This is not what the citizen, as a citizen of a citizens' initiative, imagines himself as a petition bringer! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We must introduce the institution of the consultation of the citizen, especially the first signatory, because it is clearly important that people feel that they can express their concerns. May a concern at first glance be so small, minor and unimportant for many of us: It is a citizen's concern and therefore to take it seriously! Above all, we must also bring the administration – and this must not disappear again in our drawers – to answer the question of why there are so many open problems, why the citizen is dissatisfied in many areas. The administration should answer us. The Minister should answer us. The officials are supposed to give us a speech and answer as to why there are maltreatments and also to clarify where there are legal gaps and where the legal situation does not allow a concern to be negotiated and concluded in a civil and positive manner for the citizen. I do not agree with the statement that this is a toothless committee. We are only making this committee toothless. If this is toothless, then we Members bear the responsibility for it. That is why we must make changes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17091	Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17112	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Gatterer! I cannot accept her great praise for the work of the Constitutional Committee without criticism. I am now referring to the petition No. 3: Bus and train for everyone. Since October 1996, it has been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, and the only thing that has now been done is to include non-discrimination of the disabled in the Constitution. That is what the disabled are really talking about, namely creating an anti-discrimination law from which the disabled can derive a right to complain if they are discriminated against, has not yet been implemented. That is why I must say: The success of the Constitutional Committee is really pretty thin, and there is no reason for praise or congratulation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Gatterer, because you have the petition No. If you have done so, I would like to ask you to make a strong statement in the Constitutional Committee that the first is to put the petition back on the agenda – unfortunately, Mr Obmann of the Constitutional Committee Kostelka is not here now, otherwise I would address him myself – and secondly, it really comes to an anti-discrimination law. I really think this is very sad: We stand at the end of the second millennium and have to fight for an anti-discrimination law! I mean, you can do that in Austria, where it is always said: In social things we are leading!, not to take. As I said, I call on you to make a strong contribution to this anti-discrimination law at last! In the explanations on the petition, the sad situation of the disabled, which still exists, although a great deal has been done, is quite clear. There it says: "People with disabilities are subject to significant discrimination every day in many areas of life. You're not being taken care of. You don't have the same chances. There is no legal instrument that can help disabled people to cope." – That’s right! Anyone who has a little to do with the disabled knows that the condition is still the same as it is presented in the petition. For example: School integration therefore often does not work because there are no structural conditions for the disabled. Some schools simply cannot lead to integration classes, because there are structural barriers that make it quite simply impossible for a disabled person to enter school. Furthermore, if we're already at the Federation, the Bundestheater: Look at how the disabled are treated in the Federal Theatres! There are two disabled places in the State Opera, and these are far behind. [[Abg. Mother: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Of course they are far behind! You are, I believe, in the third last row of backs, Mrs Motter. I'm probably going to the opera more often than you are. Besides, I would often need a disabled place for someone. In the folk opera, a disabled person is not even able to sit next to his companion, but must sit behind him. If it is a wheelchair driver, drag the wheels of the wheelchair to the knees of the companion, because there the place is so tight. You can also see nothing in the Volksoper! [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: It's not always bad!]] Yeah, it's not always bad. In the Burgtheater, the situation is a little better, I admit. [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: That's it!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: This is Peymann!]] But there's really a lot to do. Perhaps it's on Peymann, that can be already, although I haven't heard a word from him for the benefit of the disabled. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Brauneder]] But I would like to say one more thing: I have repeatedly pointed out that the main handicaps for the disabled are in the countries and in the municipalities. That is why I have repeatedly said that it is so urgent that we create an anti-discrimination law here and that we require the countries and communities to ensure that there is no longer any discrimination in their areas. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Brauneder.]] For example, in Vienna there are magistrate district offices with levels that are unbridgeable for the disabled. The disabled person is standing outside and cannot even go up with a companion because there are no ramps and no slant lifts. Similarly, it looks like swimming pools: There is hardly a swimming pool in Vienna where a disabled person can enter. The Apollo cinema in Vienna has been rebuilt by millions of schillings. Mrs Rauch-Kallat believes that there are three cinemas in Vienna that are suitable for disabled people. Mrs Haidlmayr has already tried this out, and she has said that none is barrier-free. Thus, the municipality of Vienna has paid many million Schillings for subsidies, without having to pay any attention to the fact that disabled people are also being built. [[Abg. Gatterer: What did the liberal representatives in Vienna's Landtag say about this?]] Our liberal representatives – don't worry! – have always been committed to the disabled, but, as you know, we do not have a majority in Vienna. [[Call to the liberals: Not yet!]] Unfortunately not yet, but that will probably change soon – even if you continue to make such a policy! I do not want to talk about other venues in the federal states and also in Vienna. Hardly anything can be disabled. I would really ask you to take this petition seriously. It is a cornerstone of the "normal" life in which the disabled want to participate. I call on all members of the Constitutional Committee to ensure that this anti-discrimination law comes into force.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17226	Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17248	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is basically good, because we finally have a composition on the work of this Committee. The disadvantage of this report is that it is actually made at too long a time. I would like to see a summary report not every three or four years, but every year. I believe – and I say that quite simply and simply – that the Committee on Petitions is in some way always treated as a stepchild. He simply doesn't deserve this stepchild's existence, because he's very likely to have a lot to do. Of course, it also raises the question of the extent to which the Committee on Petitions or the members of the Committee on Petitions are actually interested in the fact that something is going on. I can only say – and this is my experience – that the chairman – and I do not want to miss out on thanking Mrs Bruni Fuchs for her presidency today – always tries to really carry out the work of the Committee. I think we've also done a lot of things – certainly not everything, and there's still a lot of things to do. But one should also mention that something has very probably gone on. I only think – and this has been mentioned several times today – of the petition with the 48 000 signatures that have come from the disabled people in Austria. I think it is a merit of the Committee on Petitions - I do not believe it only, I am convinced - that we have at least once in the first step the constitutional provision. But I mean, it's not up to us, and we can't rely on saying: Now we have the Constitutional Provision, and that is all that is regulated. – Nothing is regulated, there is only the constitutional provision. What we still need is an anti-discrimination or disability equalisation law. The Committee on Petitions, I believe, will also have an eye in the coming years and in the coming years to see that this constitutional provision does not remain in the federal constitution alone, but that the promises of all the Members who made it on 9 May. It is true that, in the past year, this House has been made aware of the fact that this constitutional provision is now to be filled with content, namely the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. But that was not the only thing we have done in the Committee on Petitions and where we can say today that we have achieved good success. But there is also a lot of negative things where nothing has happened as well as anything happened and the thing has been put somewhere, sometime ad acta, in any ministry. I am thinking specifically of the recognition of sign language. Ladies and gentlemen! What happened to the petition No. 23, what has happened to these signatures? Where is she? What happened to it? – Nothing has happened to it, but it is stored somewhere and slumbers there, probably staggers, and we have basically not been able to achieve much – I say nothing at all – for deaf people. I am also thinking of the Citizens' Initiative No. 3, on the legal and social equality of homosexuals. That was a commotion, ladies and gentlemen, also in the Committee on Petitions. Because suddenly one has seen how the camps or the parties stand for the equality of homosexual people. This area is also ad acta. I could list you a few more. For example, the problem of the dogs in the blind is also unresolved. And many, many other areas are still a subject that has sometime landed in the Committee on Petitions and has never been treated again. On the other hand, however, petitions come to the committee, which I already wonder if everything is still right. I am thinking, for example, of the petition No. 4. This is a very specific question of the vocational integration of young people with disabilities. This petition was signed by Dr. Feurstein, Mag. Guggenberger, Dr. Partik-Pablé and – so that I don't forget anyone – yes, it was. If you look at this, you can see: It has, please, signed the coalition this petition. What prevented you, ladies and gentlemen, from making such a law? You have the majority! – The Committee on Petitions should not be misused to the effect that the Coalition brings petitions and citizens' initiatives, where it would have the opportunity to make laws if it had already supported these demands! I think it should also be considered in the context of the Rules of Procedure whether it should be allowed for the coalition, if it has the full majority, to be able to bring petitions and citizens' initiatives, because it can make a law in the same way and should not take the path through citizens' initiatives. I think this point is to be considered seriously, because if the coalition today brings something into the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17291	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Haidlmayr.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17312	... then it could already happen without it having to go through this committee. On the whole, however, I believe it is a valuable work, it is a good report, we can start with it. I thank all those who – and I am now deliberately saying "me" – have supported me in this, so that at least once we have enshrined the equality provision in the federal constitution. I say it again and again: It was my success, and I'm proud of it. But we still have a lot to do, it is far from everything regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17346	Mr Rada is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17367	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I do not want to interfere with the debate on the quality and efficiency of the Committee on Petitions, but I think that Mr Smolle is right: He's not a toothless committee. I am also of the opinion that it is up to the members themselves and to all of us to make this committee an efficient body. But I do not want to miss it, in a few sentences with the petition No. 13 which reads as follows: "20 years of noise are enough – the Danube city demands its right". It is indeed true that noise is extremely detrimental to human living and quality of life. But this does not only refer to the Danube city in Vienna, but it also refers in particular to the surrounding area in Lower Austria. It seems to me that it is so important that petitions to this complex area are not loosened because in the early 1970s the construction of this track in 1634 affected a residential area, a settlement area, which was previously lax with very, very high quality of life. It is not, as can be read in the collective report, as the ministerial statements say, that no agreements on flight intensities or take-off movements would have been drawn up. With the economic development of our country, of course, the amount of flights has also increased accordingly and the current take-off and landing movements have also been introduced. In addition, charter movements are carried out mainly at night during the holiday and summer months. All in all, therefore, noise pollution has become very strong for the people who live there. Due to the never-tired use of politicians and also through citizens' initiatives, improvements have been constantly made, but despite all of this, repeated disregards of altitude or direction of approach have been observed. It is therefore essential that the people concerned are also given the right to think of promotions in accordance with these noises, such as for noise protection windows. All of this has been promised, but still not done. I therefore feel that it is quite legitimate for petitions to prevent this issue from getting out of the way in ministerial piles and no longer being seen there. All in all, aircraft operators as well as the people who use them are concerned with improving the quality of life. However, this must not be so one-sided that only those who use this transport have improved quality of life by being at their holiday destination earlier. Likewise, more quality of life must be offered to those people who are bothered by these machines. As the last point, because it has already been cut today, I come to the petition for the protection of the arrainers of federal roads: The same applies here. I do not want to spread about this, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that noise protection walls alone do not solve the problem. Rather, it is worth remembering that settlement areas are largely surrounded. As a resident of a region suffering from increased traffic through the East Transit, it is time for us to counter these large-scale transit flows of the Sog effect of the Federal Capital of Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17413	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17435	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the petition No. 29 points out that the trade union and the Chamber of Labour have rightly examined the practices of the Austrian freight transport industry and the bus industry, in which these branches were carefully considered. The union and the Chamber of Labour have found that the provisions of the applicable collective agreements, the applicable law on working time, the labour rest law, the social security law and, above all, the income tax law are being seriously violated – a condition that is unsustainable. These maladministrations do not only cause enormous damage to the workers concerned; the Republic escapes tax revenue and social security benefits. This blasphemy is currently only possible because the control of the transport industry is very complicated and therefore very laborious. These system weaknesses are used carelessly by many entrepreneurs. We need more severe penalties for tax evasions, ladies and gentlemen. The penalty must not be cheaper than the excruciating advantage. If we recall the statements of the drivers who were articulated at the Brennerblockade 14 days ago, then we believe that they are returning to the Middle Ages. I therefore believe that we are jointly required to eliminate these maladministrations. Finally, let me take a very brief look at the subject of cyclists on our forestry roads. The debate has been taking place for a number of years now, but there is still no satisfactory solution. A petition has been filed on this subject again. It is a pity that there was no agreement with our coalition partner, the EIA, to include this petition in the agenda at the last Committee on Petitions. [[Call out to the liberals: you have this!]] But I can say from this point of view that there will be a new start, and there the cards must already come on the table. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that cycling is booming. It is evident that mountain biking is an important segment in the whole tourism industry, and it is just a shame that we are not using this opportunity properly. There are examples that show that it can work. There have been positive approaches everywhere where the liability question has been resolved. But there are really only very careful approaches because, as we know, there are 130 000 km of forest roads in Austria and only 8 000 km of them are released for cyclists. We do not need to complain, therefore, that the cyclists move to Bavaria, Switzerland and South Tyrol if we do not change the conditions for mountain bikers. Finally, I should like to say: We will fight with all our strength to bring about proper conditions for our cyclists, especially because this is a huge opportunity for our tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17467	As the last speaker on this point, Mrs Tegischer is speaking. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17489	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I would like to take a brief look at two petitions and a citizens' initiative and make some fundamental comments on the upgrading of this committee. The petition No. 17 on the issue of regional radio licenses for East Tyrol is a good example of the importance of this Committee and the importance of cooperation between citizens and MEPs. A citizens' initiative with 6 000 signatures has been launched, and I have expressed my solidarity and my appreciation for this citizens' initiative through the introduction of a petition. That is why I am also against the view that the petitions are being misused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the petition No. 16 – she has already been mentioned by Mr. Gatterer – on "the financial equality of travel costs between home schoolers and drivers": This too is a concern of all Members of Parliament, and it has already been given in the Family Committee of Minister for Family Affairs Bartenstein's commitment that, if it allows for financial development in 2000, an adequate replacement for home transport aid will be introduced. I also regard this as a success and as a way of appreciating this committee very well. Now to some basic comments. I too believe, Mr Haidlmayr, that a report should be submitted to Parliament every year, because I know that the last report was made four years ago, and that is a little long ago. Another improvement proposal to upgrade this committee would, for example, be that the allocation to the specialist committees should be made faster and that the concerns should also be raised more quickly. One particular concern of me as a youth spokesperson in connection with the introduction of citizens' initiatives would be that, because we are always talking about the fact that young people should be actively involved in political events and, above all, in their immediate surroundings, have the opportunity to sign a citizens' initiative, even 16 years old, because it is currently possible to sign a citizens' initiative only from the age of 19. I think it is in all our sense – Mr Amon nodds – that youth is actively involved. In summary, I would like to stress the need and importance of this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I am proud that I am a member of this committee. He was very informative. I am convinced that more co-determination rights and a greater appreciation of the concerns of citizens are justified by the Committee's appreciation and that this will also bring about a new quality of democratic understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17541	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 1286 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17577	We shall proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Member. Barmüller, Dr. Petrovic, on the establishment of an investigation committee to clarify all circumstances related to the accident at the Lassing mine and to review all Austrian mountain authorities in respect of the proper exercise of their supervisory and control obligations over the last ten years. No reading of the application is necessary because it has already been distributed in writing. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17633	We are now going into the debate. Reasonable period: 10 minutes, for further discussions: 5 minutes. Mr Barmüller came to speak in the sense that he was the first signatory. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17657	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After the emotions of the morning have faded a little after the evening newspapers are still being studied in plenary, even though Member of Parliament has already made it clear that there are responsibilities up to the top, no one can seriously claim that a committee of inquiry would not be necessary in this House. However, should no decision be taken this evening on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, even though the Members of Parliament have already been able to convince the government groups, as is now the case, of the reading of the newspapers that the situation is different from what they may have believed today in the early days, I announce that it will not be until November. The Liberals, together with the Greens, will stick to their demand that there be an investigation committee. We will also ask for a general debate on Lassing at the next meeting within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This will be announced by Mrs Klubobfrau Schmidt in the President's office tomorrow, I say it here this evening too. So this issue is not over. In view of what has been revealed today, it would be appropriate for the government groups to give their assent to this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17690	The next speaker is Mr Schöggl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17712	Mr President. Unfortunately, the government bank is lost. As the last speaker, I would like to say that I believe that, despite all this, we are still under the impression of the debate this morning. For me and for my group, many, many questions remain. I think we should split this into two sections: One is the failure by the government, by the policy to be clarified. In the second part, as we have heard today, it should be about finding the truth, the truth about how the actions were real in this terrible accident and the extent to which there is a misbehaviour both on the part of the authority and on the part of politics. These things must be clarified urgently and therefore the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry should be supported. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17748	I don't have any further words. This is the... [[Contradiction of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Notice from a draft official to the President:]] Yes, Kammerlander!– Why isn't that on the screen?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: I don't know!]] [[Answer given by the concept official in the direction of the President:]] Because it has just been reported!We have an agreement at the Presidential Conference that the word messages are made in such a way that at least three metres of cable can be returned in time. - Please, Mrs Kammerlander.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17828	It's been reported! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to make it clear to my previous speakers, as a late evening summary of the morning debate: It is about a point that remains for me simply as a resumé of the debate, and this is the impression of a lack of understanding of democracy, which is that the majority controls itself, the opinion of the government parties, and, as we were able to follow today after a request by Khol and Kostelka, that the person himself is investigating, conducting investigations and obviously controlling, which should be at the heart of the investigations, namely the Minister of Economic Affairs. Perhaps this impression is also given: The proposal by Khol and Kostelka on the morning also surprised me because the Minister of Economic Affairs has been trying to make us believe that he is investigating everything, examining all the accusations, all the occurrences. – If so, I ask myself: What, then, have you voted on this again today? What did it have to mean today that you have voted on exactly what the Minister of Economic Affairs has told us to do and to have done for weeks? – Obviously – only in this way can I interpret it – your trust in the Minister of Economic Affairs is not that great, because otherwise you would not have had to equip him with this explicit mandate to investigate everything again today. But it still surprises me – I can only say it again and again – when the opposition raises questions when it reveals facts that are not contexts and that reveal the many gaps, and when it finally asks a committee of inquiry, which statements of words are then taken, which terms are needed and which concept of democracy is revealed here! They will not be able to escape this political responsibility in any way. Many of the Styrian Members here will not be able to escape political responsibility and answer the question, why they did not agree to an investigation committee. Finally, I am convinced that the Minister of Economic Affairs will not be able to escape it either. You have now had some hours – as Mr Barmüller said – to read newspaper reports, to watch and listen to news, to learn how the public thinks about what has been discussed today. A small spark of hope may have been there for you to change your mind and you will also feel that now would be the appropriate time to set up an investigation committee. But it will not be too late in a month, and we will bring the request back again!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17871	I don't have any further words. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Barmüller, Dr. Petrovic, on the establishment of an investigation committee. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the setting up of this committee of inquiry should show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17908	We shall proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Applebeck, Mr Grollitsch and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl concerning the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate political responsibility in connection with the mine accident in Lassing. The request was distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17947	It is not known that the debate has not been called for. The request for a national vote has been withdrawn. We can therefore immediately vote on this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a committee of inquiry give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e17989	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingl has left this sitting unpunished. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-09-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00138_d7e18014	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, self-employed requests 868/A to 876/A have been submitted and questions 4852/J to 4885/J have been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 9 a.m. The agenda shall be made available in writing. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
