ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1631	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you very much. I ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 124. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, MEPs are reported Amon, Dkfm. Holger Bauerand Dr. Schwimmer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1668	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Ms Elisabeth Gehrerd, Minister for Education, was appointed by Mr Mag. Molterer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1695	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1899	Let's go into the agenda. The subject of the negotiation is the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1924	The President-in-Office agreed on a proposal on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group or Secretary of State, which exceeds 20 minutes, will be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective group. I ask the House whether there are objections to this proposal. – Since this is not the case, it is so decided. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1960	We are now negotiating the External Consultative Group. Is oral reporting desirable? This is not the case. Now I start with the first speaker mentioned in word. It is this honourable Member Dr. Haider. A voluntary speaking time of 10 minutes is reported to me, but I'm setting up to 20 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 10 minutes!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e1990	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already talked in the Committee on Budgets about some of the priorities in the context of Austrian foreign policy, with the question of solving problems at our own doorstep is of particular interest to us liberals. It can be assumed that there are a number of open questions in Austrian foreign policy concerning our immediate neighbours. Given that we attach particular importance, particularly in the context of the forthcoming EU Presidency, to the organisation of neighbourhood policy, it seems important to note once again and also to ask the Foreign Minister how he really feels about European nuclear policy, because we are getting daily information that Austrian foreign policy is not able, in conjunction with the European Union, to make a policy in the immediate border and neighbouring area, which prevents the Austrian population from being seriously threatened by the commissioning of nuclear power plants, for example in Slovakia. That is why it is difficult, Minister of State and Vice-Chancellor, because we have been told over and over again: If we are in the EU, we have a strong partner to enforce a nuclear-free Central Europe. – The fact is that we are now paying a substantial sum of money for nuclear research policy within the EU so that those security techniques which are not yet implanted in Eastern Europe can be sold, but Austria is not pursuing any policy towards disarmament and an alternative to these nuclear power plants. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In other words, we are paying the European Union's nuclear policy with our money, but at the same time we expect the EU to help us to disarm nuclear power plants. The same is true of the Krško nuclear power plant, which is close to Slovenia, Croatia and Austria. There the problem is the same, and it is therefore right for us to ask the question: Is there an anti-atomic policy that is made by your place of business and which also has a corresponding weight within the EU, so that something like this happens again, as we are currently experiencing with Mochovce? For it is of no use that it is always said: We are negotiating human rights issues, if the human rights of the Austrian people are basically not a matter of any concern to the Foreign Minister and also to the EU when it comes to the enforcement of interests of life. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, I believe that there is a home-made problem at the doorstep, namely the entire enlargement of the EU. They will very soon have the opportunity, as official representatives of Austria within the framework of the EU Presidency, to advance this process of the EU's eastern opening. The first critical comments in the media already suggest that it is recognized that Austrian politics is going into a double mill: On the one hand, the Heads of State, the Agricultural Ministers, the Chamber of Labour, the Trade Union, say that this Easter enlargement cannot come because it is not feasible, on the other hand, the Austrian Federal Government will... [[Contradiction of the Abg. Black goats.]] Of course! Read in the newspaper "The Press" what Mr Pröll said yesterday, Mr. Colleague, so that you are informed! Maybe you're not so far with the newspaper reading – good morning! So you will have to play a double role: They will have to propagate the opening of the East in the EU Presidency, and at the same time the impression will be given in Austria that "oh" will not be eaten as hot as cooked. This is a double strategy, which is very striking. They have even promised a so-called border country support in public declarations. All of us have now voted on this support for the border area, since the Commissioner responsible has also informed us that there will never be any such thing. There can be INTERREG programmes, but we already have them, and they are never so widespread that a meaningful border country programme can be derived from them. And at all: What is the point, knowing that the enlargement of the East for Austria brings very basic and essential disadvantages – says you do it anyway, but then you get a little money to repair the worst damage again? Would it not have failed to prevent damage from happening from the outset before having to recover money to repair the damage?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what the heads of state tell you. There is a document from the national conference, where a position paper on a special programme has been developed under the chairmanship of the Styrian head of state, emphasizing that there is a risk that the social and security gap and environmental standards will be so large that this would be detrimental to Austria. And in point 11 it says: Even now, without full implementation of the internal market, the following developments have taken place in the neighbouring regions of Austria as a result of the opening of the east: Production and investment outsourcing in the eastern region of Austria – i.e. the farms migrate to the east – increased purchasing power outflow due to a lack of customs restrictions and the low price level in those neighbouring countries, shift in the area of services. That is exactly the opposite of what you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are telling the Austrians. They always say: A huge opportunity, new jobs, additional development opportunities! – That this does not work proves reality. If you take up a skilled worker in the Czech Republic today, on average he costs about 4,000 s. If you have to pay an Austrian skilled worker, you will not get him under 20 000 S grossto. It is therefore very easy to calculate which development would occur on the labour market alone in the case of this integration process. I am not yet talking about the ever-increasing relations in the environmental standards sector. If you go to Slovenia today and make a microchip production there, you have no environmental requirements at all, but there is already an association agreement with the EU that those who produce cheaply there can also benefit Austrian producers on the European market at the same time. It really cannot be that our own economic structure is being put at risk by the negligence of foreign policy. – These are the things we want to tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] President Clinton recently spoke about the "logic of interdependence" during his visit to Germany. The "logic of interdependence" means to him that there must be something like a mutuality, a reciprocity, together. This means that steps of opening up can only be taken if there are significant advantages for those who have not yet seen these benefits. We actually want to hear from you a little bit about how the line is being set up. The fact that you yourself do not take this very seriously and that the Austrian People's Party, with its representatives in the European Parliament and in the Commission, does not take these things very seriously, is the following: As a representative of the Heads of State, Mrs Klasnic officially filed the call for a border country special programme in Brussels. It has written an accompanying letter of comprehensive nature, and then Mr Fischler answers with a few thanks. – Mr Pirzio-Biroli has already written on the letter of Mrs. Landeshauptfrau on it: brief thank you – sheath. – That's "serious" that's taken! Short thank you – deposit, it says. And Mr Pirzio-Biroli, the head of the office of Mr Fischler, then sent to the responsible Commissioner van den Broek of this border country special programme to the heads of state with the following comment: I will leave it to your assessment. That means: Do whatever you want with the stuff I'm sending you here. – I left it to your assessment. - Pirzio-Biroli. We are not interested in what the Heads of State want, nor are we interested in what Mr Schüssel promises again and again. I could leave it to your assessment: Do whatever you want, with the paper of the national leaders, there is no border land transport. – You will not be able to bring the Austrians behind the light, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A third problem, which is located, is the question of our neighbor Slovenia. They have announced a great deal that the problems with the Austrian minority in Slovenia, the old Austrian minority, have now been solved. - Please don't! They have provided for a cultural agreement to be negotiated. But what we want is to ensure that the Austrian minority, the Old Austrian German language in Slovenia, are safeguarded in the same way that all minorities are secured there. There is a federal constitution of Slovenia in which the Hungarian minority, in which the Italian minority is constitutionally protected, is protected. And you can have a deal with a cultural agreement and say: This solves the problem of the old Austrians in Slovenia! – With no exception, Minister of State! That's once again like the border country special program you want to sell us, but it won't be there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is quite similar to the negotiations with Slovenia on participation in the Olympic Games. Then the covenant says: Negotiating with Slovenia on the guarantees, we give you the guarantees of 13.8 billion schilling for the delivery of the Olympic in Klagenfurt only after Slovenia and Italy have taken over the partial guarantees! You must already become active, Minister of State. Do you know what happened in the meantime? – In the meantime, the Slovenian government has officially commissioned the mayor of Kranjska Gora to take over the guarantees for the Olympic Games. Now you can calculate about what this is worth: There is neither a regional constitution nor a financial autonomy of the mayor of Kranjska Gora – nor does he have a budget so that he can assume guarantees in billions. And you want to sell this to the Austrians as a solid solution to the problems that stand in the house! I must ask you to put forth a little more effort and not always let some nebulous balloons rise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And finally, I ask you to consider whether we really are really discussing the money you use in your budget – at least over 4 billion schilling – properly. When I look at this: There is the European Community for Monitoring for Bosnia and the Balkans. There is a separate monitoring mission, a separate institution. We pay it with 5.6 million schilling, and nothing has come out of it except reports. No consequence has been drawn! And now you want to put in another 5.6 million schillings. 16.4 million schillings are again planned for Bosnia. Everyone knows that the criticism of the European Parliament and the Minister for Development in Germany is entitled to have billions available, but cannot be called up because the bureaucracy is unable to use the money in Bosnia. I wonder, Why should I put it? Now you're getting money back when things haven't worked out yet? Or: They invest 8 million schilling in CFSP actions, common foreign and security policy. No one knows whether this is at all compatible with neutrality, if even there is a requirement for fighting efforts, including peacekeeping measures, to be financed. How do you want to act as a Neutral Fighting Mission in an association with others? You have to explain this to the Austrians first how it should work. And this goes to the money issue for bicultural education in Guatemala, amounting to 9 million schilling. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: There is an Austrian school in Guatemala!]] Even in Uganda, a prison with 23 million schillings is being renovated. I'm really wondering now: What have we lost with our tax payments in Uganda, dear Federal Minister? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should make sure that things are settled on the spot, in Austria! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Probably you should do it in Brazil!]] Well, maybe he'll come up with this idea anyway. The gentlemen are very creative, Mr. Schieder. We have already experienced a lot of things here: When I think of your Ganovs, which also abroad funds that we have granted to public funding...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2091	Deputies! We have all done our utmost to be more careful in the language. It's not possible to say "your Ganoven"!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2106	Mr President. "Ganoven" is a quite common expression for what you have shaped here in Parliament last week. I'm just doing your speech reports, which you've given us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2136	Mr Delegate Dr. Haider! I'll call you to order.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2158	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to receive your call, and I conclude by inviting the Minister of State and Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Germany to also be invited by us freely and politely – so that the Bureau has no problem with my choice of words – that it is politely invited to take care of how the external representations of Austria work. I just mention one example: In the important area of Russia, they have a single honorary consul, who sits in St. Petersburg, next to the Moscow delegation. But you know very well that the issue of visas, the issue of entry permits is a huge problem, and you know very well that there has been a lot of incident lately. For example, businessmen write to us that, so to speak, corrupt consular employees only grant visas for money. In particular, the constantly discussing company Nordex is also quoted, which is very generous so that it can quickly obtain visas for its business friends. That's a letter that this businessman confesses to. He wrote this to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I'd ask you not just to say: It is terrible that the Mafia is so active! but also to research: In what respects and in what strategies is the granting of visas and permits in the Austrian representation authorities in Eastern Europe actually carried out? In what ways will this be done? Is it true that bribery funds also face Austrian consular employees that such money is also flowing there? Is it true that Nordex is receiving preferential treatment from the Austrian representation authorities? – Then it is clear why the Austrian Federal Government is currently dealing with such an intensity to put the question Nordex under the carpet, because we dared to point it out that this company is in considerable suspicion of being a mafiose organization, but which is apparently also open to the consular authorities of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2199	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2220	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, you agree with the first speech on the morning of a new plenary session of a choice of words which, in fact, would not have lost anything in this House, but in particular in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to expressly support this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to refer to the content of what you have said, in fact, only in one point. In your group, you are dealing with the enlargement of the East only in the way that you say no. The question of the enlargement of the European Union is no longer a question of whether or not it is a question of when and how. We have been working very intensively on these two issues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for some time, but probably you have missed this discussion because of your rare participation there. I think it totally unrealistic to say today: We do not want an enlargement of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion is over. There will be this extension. It is much more important to clarify how, on which way and when it should take place. I think this is a fundamental interest of the Austrians, and we should talk about it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have already made a number of proposals, and I do not want to do so again in detail in this debate today. I would just like to say one thing: They have accused the Foreign Minister and the foreign policy of Austria of negligence. Ladies and gentlemen! To accuse someone of negligence means to show a lack of care. What you are doing, especially on questions of the enlargement of the European Union, is not negligence, but that is the purpose of the error of the Austrians, and that is a much worse offence than negligence. I would also like to maintain that in this context. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But now let me go back to the budget we should talk about today. We find a volume of just over 4 billion schilling at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 1999. Compared to the 1998 expenditure, this is a minus of 240 million schilling. When we look at the establishment plan, we note that there are about 700 planning posts in the central management, about 18 less than in 1998, and at the representation authorities in the establishment plan 862, which is two more. All in all, this means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being dealt with in a very economical manner, both in terms of staff and in terms of expenditure. – A small budget for a small ministry with a few planning positions, but this has a huge impact on the outside. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are aware of this external effect of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we must also acknowledge that the foreign office, with its very different structure, from the representative authorities to the central office, today has a range of tasks which is really enormous. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since 1995, this range of tasks has widened considerably. The Austrians have said about the European Union, but there must also be someone who can speak with us there. In all these different bodies in Brussels, in all the preparatory work in Austria, in all the coordination work we need between the different ministries, there is of course a great coordinator, and that is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with its excellent staff. Today, we have much more services with the representative authorities. The service character for Austrians abroad is increasing significantly. We see that with the Presidency relations with the other countries of the European Union will be substantially increased, from quantity, but also from quality. The purely consular, administrative activities have also grown considerably in recent years. All of this has been done with a very small budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a very small budget, in this quality, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that at this point we must also express our special recognition and our thanks to the staff of the Foreign Office, the diplomatic service in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to come to a current point, which may be moving us today, one day since the plenary session last before the Presidency of the Austrians in the European Union will discuss these issues: the Presidency for the six months in the second half of 1998. It is still 35 days before we take over this presidency, and in this context too, we see a spectrum that Austria will demand in the Presidency to take decisions that require intensive preparation, which is very heterogeneous. We have so many different steps to take in these six months, and I believe that it will be a special challenge for the Foreign Minister, but also for the other members of the Austrian Federal Government, to be able to deal with this. We like to look at the content, but also, of course, see the fact that this requires organisational preparation, which assumes enormous dimensions: 39 ministerial meetings in Brussels and Luxembourg, 1 500 official meetings, the Vienna European Council, countless meetings in Vienna, including informal meetings to be organised here. And precisely this organizational work in such international appearances is often what remains decisively attached in the memory of the participants. The preparatory work is carried out in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under the leadership of Ms. State Secretary Benita Ferrero-Waldner, who not only performs an excellent representation of Austrian interests abroad but has recently started to sponsor companies for the Presidency. The overall preparation is really excellent, and I would like to congratulate her. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the contents of this presidency in fact also show the wide range of things: The countdown on monetary union must be opened. The conversion rates for the euro will be fixed in Vienna at the end of December. In the case of employment, a first view of the measures taken by the Member States will have to be taken. In the context of enlargement negotiations there will be substantial negotiations under the Austrian Presidency, and perhaps this will be possible to conclude some chapter. In the Agenda 2000, the main programme for the financing of the European Union, for the new structural policy, Austria will have to try to make this decision, although it will no longer be decided, and of course it will have to take particular account of Austrian interests particularly in the border regions. In the field of the environment, the standard discussion will be introduced, an active role of the European Union in international negotiations on the environment. In the case of internal security, there are new instruments under the Amsterdam Treaty. It will begin to implement these in the implementation phase. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a wealth of tasks that are purely formal to us. Furthermore, the common foreign policy of the European Union must be determined by Austria. Negotiations with Cyprus, which require preparation for de-escalation between Greece and Turkey, will be such a special issue of the European Union's foreign policy, as will the Post-Lomé Agreements, which will begin with September 1998. It is therefore a very special quantity, but also quality, which Austria must introduce in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear to me and to the Austrian People's Party: Austria will be in the exhibition for six months. I am sure that our Foreign Minister will be the one who must present Austria in this edition in such a way that Europe and the European viewers will enjoy it. I am sure that this task is in his best hands, and I would like to congratulate you once again on the previous preparation. I am also looking forward to proving skill for Europe in these six months.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2326	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2347	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can't actually start with a compliment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's sad!]] Mr. Schieder! We have been waiting for the Amsterdam Treaty for almost a year and have not managed to have it in plenary until today. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He does not come to the Foreign Policy Committee at all, he comes into the Constitutional Committee! You're standing at the wrong door! He comes somewhere else, in the Constitutional Committee!]] I wish we had it through Parliament until the presidency. You are not entirely without influence in your group, Mr Schieder, especially with regard to the Treaty of Amsterdam. But it doesn't matter, we can also use another example, namely the UN Human Rights Year. We have taken a long time to draw up a common position for Parliament, and this is still not in plenary. I would also like to see the agenda for the next meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Perhaps you can now also nod and say that is really an important event for Austria. A few years ago, there was a meeting on this subject, which has caused upsurge throughout the world. In this context, I would like to see that we really manage to introduce this joint resolution at the next partsession of the House, and I will allow myself to introduce a Tibet resolution, which has been in session since 1996. I'd like to know if you might Their human rights activities could also be directed in this area, because, where problems arise, regardless of what regimes are in the background, you are creating abuses and supporting their fights. But now I come to the essentials of foreign policy, first to the enlargement of the EU. Enlargement is, I believe, the subject that we will be dealing with in the next few years. I'm not willing to take a date poker to where we actually want to go. The fact is that since the fall of the wall enlargement has actually taken place, in small steps. We want them all, too, because we all benefit from them. It has been found that since 1989 40 000 jobs in Austria have been created due to the new situation – the falling trade barriers et cetera – which are probably also jobs of Austrians. On the other hand, trade surplus is always mentioned. I assume that the figures published by the Federal Government do not really say the untruth. Mr Cap is quoted as saying: "I am currently opponents of Easter enlargement." – I am sorry, Mr Cap. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's hot, the cap! I like it better and better!]] 40,000 jobs and a trade surplus – is this really so bad? Faith Do you really think that this will be at risk when the borders open up? The problem we see is that we actually have a wealth gap. In the Federal Government's view, this wealth gap can only be overcome if it is promoted on one side of the borders, i.e. on our side, so that nothing happens. This means that at best, this gap remains at a higher level. That's absolutely illogical. If I see a problem this and beyond the border, I have to promote where I have this gap, which is on the side of our neighbours. And this is the most important thing that we should actually impose in Brussels, not how much we can get rid of for Austria, but how we can handle this situation, so that the people who live and work in Eastern Europe do not develop the need to become mobile in Europe. What I have to say is that this is not going to happen anyway, because mobility is only achieved from a shear of over 60 percent. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] In any case, all economic calculations at the time of accession will no longer be available to this extent. I think it is funny that some people actually benefit from that group, which is most massively opposed to the enlargement of the East. It is a shame that Mr Prinzhorn is no longer here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now the usual blow must come back against the FPÖ!]] Prinzhorn has companies in Hungary, but I do not think he spends sleepless nights or is now in economic distress. When he only had companies in Austria, I think he was worse than now. So he's a useful user of this opening idea. I do not know whether this is really compatible with the principles of the Freedom Party. Perhaps he should not sign this paper if he permits himself to have companies in Hungary. Trust your business expert within your party, and you'll see, you're not driving badly with it! He is obviously not a human being who suffers from distress. If one speaks of the long transitional periods that are necessary, or of safeguard clauses, or of the fact that enlargement, as climate says, must not happen "shock-like", then I must say that the shock takes quite a long time. For me as a physician, a shock is an acute event. If we are talking about enlargement, and if Mr Klima does this with the expression "shocky", then, I think, the choice of words was not correct. I would like to come to the financing of Mrs Wulf-Mathies' assessment: "There will certainly be funds for cross-border cooperation. I cannot imagine, however, that these funds will also satisfy the expectations of those who want to be bought as expensive as possible.' That's the problem. They stir up needs in Austria, design fear scenarios, and wonder why the population is so opposed to the enlargement of the East. They operate with wrong numbers, with false elements, and I don't think that's correct. Colleagues, too – what is he? – as ÖGB President and Chairman of all European trade unions, this leads to a dramaturgy, which is only more objectionable. [[Abg. Scheibner: For the choice of words!]] He says: Eastern enlargement leads to the first massive loss of jobs in Austria and the second to between 200 000 and 500 000 people seeking work in Austria. - That's not true! That's just not true! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you look at the studies on mobility in those countries, you will notice that is lying. If that were the case, this would be more a reason to bring all the Structural Funds into the Eastern European neighbouring countries than to Austria. That would actually be an argument against what he intends to do. That is why, I think, we should really hold back and think about the positions once in Austria itself. The government has been asked to do this. There was an information campaign on the EU. There is an information campaign on the euro. Perhaps we could now make an information campaign on enlargement, which is really being carried out objectively. There are problems at the borders. There are now, there were earlier, and it will always be there. We should have an eye on this. I don't want to disapprove of that. But the way in which this is happening now, that one simply develops scenarios that are not going to happen at all, just to startle fear there, I think is commonplace. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to the presidency. The Austrian Presidency is characterised by two things: first of all, by a very successful technical preparation, as I believe. At this level, we have nothing to blame the Federal Minister and his team. But there is no political preparation. I have heard from you, Mr Federal Minister – you will certainly say this in your replica, that you say every time – only headlines. I have never heard of you content, nothing about what Austria is developing as a priority at this time and where we see our pain limits. You never answered that. I am not satisfied with the headlines from the agenda. They said that there is a sound wall: 1.27 percent of GDP for EU funding, and we will not change that. On the other hand, you must admit that, within the EU budget, you have refused to respond, just as climate has refused, a better budget devastation should take place. I asked you: What do you do with 47 percent of the EU budget in agriculture? That is, 47 percent of the EU budget – around 40 billion ECU – benefits 5 percent of the EU's population. That's 18 million people. 40 billion ECU for 18 million people! You are still saying that you do not answer this problem at all. If I make direct support for the population or farmers concerned, I will no longer need 18 million ECU, but I will be able to reach a lower level, and farmers will be able to keep their standard of living. That's what I want. But I want to do away with all the intermediate elements and slides. I think we should discuss this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There is nothing to do with refusing to make a statement on this matter, Mr Federal Minister. These are burning problems in the EU, for which there is no understanding in the European Parliament and not at all in the population. If you are promoting tobacco with 1.5 billion ECU and on the other hand you have a complaining million ECU to bring women who have been subjected to long-term unemployment back to work throughout Europe, I must say that the understanding is simply not there. 750 million are made available for silkworm and cotton products. I mean, these are complete distortions, and we can no longer afford to deal with the resources in this way. Further: You will certainly not stand for transparency, as you have advocated for the Maastrich Treaty. And then I take away a question answered by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of 27. April: "A publication of the Federal Chancellor's letter is not intended for fundamental considerations." This is the correspondence with regard to border land transport. If, on the one hand, you advocate greater transparency in the Council and on the other, there should be more transparency throughout the work of the EU in order simply to achieve an emotional bond between citizens in Europe, I do not think you can refuse to answer the question of the correspondence in which you asked for border support. Further: What's the point? Your commitment to research policy? The technology billion debacle is known anyway, I don't need to mention it any more. But what about the 5th? Framework programme in the field of research in the EU? There's still a few million missing. The European Parliament would like to receive support from you. They are the main negotiators in the second half of the year and will have to deal with how this will continue. What about the "Socrates" and "Leonardo" programmes, which are educational programmes in the field of students? There are also a few million ECU missing. How will you behave during the trial? Or the alternative energy programs Altener, Safe, Synergy: These are important programmes that receive a lamentable sum as opposed to the promotion of nuclear energy and all its components, such as safety and so on. It would really be more intelligent to say, let's just turn the spear around: Alternative energy receives the budget of nuclear energy, and nuclear energy receives the budget of alternative energy. Then we might have the right drive and motivation to simply reach the transition in our border regions of Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to the end of my remarks. Today, I have harshly said that it is necessary to develop the virtual ambassador or the virtual ambassador. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Maybe you can finance it. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Virtual!]] But it might really be to consider whether it is still necessary to apply the same techniques that we used at the time of the emperor in order to have a representation. Do we really need a permanent presence in some countries of the world? Can we not develop a system of mobile ambassadors that simply spend a longer but not too long time in a country and then move on to the next country to more or less perceive the interests of Austria or to open up the channels we need to work better? Federal Minister! Could you tell me if you need more than the fingers of a hand to count the number of ambassadors abroad, or do you perhaps need the second hand's fingers to do so? I think you just need one hand's fingers. In your top-ranking set, you have not really demonstrated abroad that you are integrating the women. I'm sorry, but I hope for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2495	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2516	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is something like a ritual in the budget debates, which is also noticeable: Representatives of the Party of the Minister concerned, representatives of the Coalition, of course more praise those of the opposition more criticizing. The "learned" listener knows: He can do something about both of them. However, from the criticism of Mr Gredler, one must reject a little more this time, because she went beyond the ritual in the crowd, but not in the content. Mr Gredler! The question of the EU Presidency is not really a question of the next budget, but of the budget this year. But as far as our presidency is concerned, we have, together at the last meetings – COSAC et cetera – been able to see and hear from parliamentarians that in other countries too, we have the opinion that we should underline from our experience that Austria is prepared not only formally but also in terms of content, and that we will certainly succeed in making it a success not only for Austria but also for the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, what is happening in concrete terms will depend on numerous developments. It is clear that our Presidency is actually a shortened one, since that part of the second half of the year will be restricted to the German elections, that is, until the outcome of the German elections, in some crucial questions – funds et cetera – because even in the Troika Germany will naturally have to wait for what attitude it is supposed to take, and because no decision will certainly be taken within the largest country of the EU before the elections or in the elections. The question we should also ask here in this House is that of future development. What about this EU Presidency? Perhaps it is the last thing that Austria will have in the history of the EU, not because the EU will break up or Austria will not be inside, but because perhaps this system of presidencies will not last for a decade. Perhaps there will be completely new forms. As good as it works in Austria to the government and Parliament, we are discussing what the next steps are in the EU, what the next measures are, how enlargement continues economically with the euro, will eventually, not now, not at the time of the Presidency, but at some point in the next few years the debate on the following issues will have to be held: What are the objectives in this EU? How far should this integration go? What is Austria's final density? For it will be necessary for some steps to be taken on the basis of these objectives if there are to be crises due to the development in the individual countries of the EU. After the introduction of the EMU and the euro, it can be expected that there will be crises in individual countries and setbacks. The development will not be one-dimensional. Then the question will be: Should there be a step back, i.e. a few renationalisations in the EU, or should another solution be found, such as an increased density in the EU, which could also be an answer to the difficulties? At this point, I believe, it will be necessary for this future debate on the EU to be held internally. On a number of occasions in this House – I do not want to warm up the security debate now – for example on the question of how to imagine the security and defence policy of this EU in ten or 20 years, I have suggested that the willingness to develop the ideas of a future Europe is underdeveloped in our country, that we know and communicate very carefully about the possibilities and chances of the next steps, but that the future image of the EU is not present in the same colours in our minds. Or recently in the debate with the Minister of Justice in the Main Committee: There was also the idea among the officials that one could go a bit along the way with the EU, but one had to keep the option of getting out of some things legally. I believe that there will be a need for us to realize that it is a way to a stronger density and that we will also consider what this future image of Europe will look like, whether there are still armies in this Europe and how far the nation-state will be restricted. Of course, in this context – as Mr Gredler was right – the question will also be asked as to the role of the foreign office, if some will become increasingly pure EU internal policies: What, then, is the role of embassies within the EU? Will they be able to fulfil the traditional image, or will there have to be new forms, new tasks and also new methods for them? This is my second point: I think we also need to talk about these new methods. I was very glad that in the debate on this subject in the Committee on Budgets, the Minister responded positively and said that he would consider and consider this when it would be time for the electronic running of the external office to be advanced and reports on how far they can be made available to Parliament. I am glad that there is a political willingness, and I believe that we also need to take this issue seriously. For example, it is currently playing a major role in the debate on intelligence services in our neighbouring country, Switzerland, where we draw attention to the dilemma that a lot of information could be provided, but unfortunately, as the experts in Switzerland say today, it falls under security and military aspects. These messages are collected and passed on to some – but they cannot be shared and used to a large extent for the reasons of the source protection et cetera. There is a dilemma about keeping this information secret and the need to make greater use of it, especially in a changed Europe and in a changed world. The experts have come to the conclusion that it would be necessary to have an exchange with policy-makers, including economics and science, and that more professionalism and legitimacy would have to be found in this area, because this would help the policy as a whole and, above all, the international policy of a country. I think it is important that we have an open debate on the following questions: How does an office develop in the future? How does international policy develop, and what role will a Parliament play and parliamentary bodies play in it? I see here a great willingness in the country to turn Parliament on, but not in international organisations except the EU, where the European Parliament has its position, in the other organisations where there are parliamentary bodies, they are more decorative, but not decisive, as we have achieved at national level. It will be important to develop a democratically legitimised parliamentary dimension where it exists, as in the Council of Europe, more closely where it is based, as in the OSCE, and to create where it is not yet present, as in the United Nations. This will allow the opposition to be more involved in all countries, i.e. the representatives of the people. This, as I believe, will also improve the quality of international work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2592	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2613	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can agree with what my previous speaker said that, when we look at the budget figures, especially in foreign policy, it is not so much about what is happening in the year of the budget year, that is, what is going on, or what is not going on. This makes me the first point to note. I would also like to add to the remarks on what a foreign and security policy could look like over the next ten, 15 or 20 years. I mean, we are at a turn, so that this question is also justified. For we know that in the next few years it will be precisely a question of inducing or shaping this common foreign and security policy in Europe. That is why the question is quite right. I would like to start by trying to compare costs because it does not seem to me to be insignificant – I have already done so in part in the committee – namely a cost comparison between ministries. This may not be entirely permissible in your eyes, but it says a lot. Yesterday we discussed the budget of the state defence here. 21 billion schilling are planned for the state defense, 4 billion schilling – rounded or rounded up, rounded in this case – for the foreign office. In my opinion, this shows a lot about weighting. So when it really comes to developing diplomatic instruments over the next ten or 20 years, when it is really about strengthening institutions and the OSCE or the UN, over the next ten, 15, 20 years, when it comes to starting exactly where we have heard reports in the 'Morgenjournal' today, it is a political dialogue, talks, peace talks, such as Kosovo, because all of this will gain more importance in Europe, within the European Union, then I must say that this cost comparison is already very similar. However, we have also made the effort and started trying to compare costs for the 1999 budget in order to see how much is spent on observer missions, UN missions, that is, classical UN missions, but also election observations, peace missions and all these areas, even if this is not, of course, legible from a budget alone, namely that of the Foreign Office; that is clear to me. Because this question is also involved in other areas, other ministries. Let's stay at the office. It is very difficult to create cost transparency, although I believe that the figures would be very interesting. So much can be read: that only the level of membership of Austria at NATO corresponds to some of the contributions that Austria is currently making to international organisations and the corresponding measures. The Member State contribution is estimated at between 500 and 800 million Schilling. In this area, for example, Austria's contribution to international organisations and appropriate measures is moving. In my opinion, this shows once again the existing imbalance – not only in the budget figures, but also in the political focus, even if we assume that this is an area that will be developed over the next ten, 15, 20 years. It is about where budgetary possibilities and political decisions are guided. This is the next thing I can see. I also told the Minister of Defence yesterday: It is striking that in recent months or last year, priority has been given to measures aimed at strengthening information, even a certain propaganda with regard to possible NATO accession – this applies to various ministries, including the Foreign Office. It may still seem to be a coincidence that certain visits – diplomatic visits – and corresponding public representations tend in this direction. But it seems to me less of a coincidence that measures are being put in place whose cost-effectiveness I cannot understand so clearly in the budget of the Foreign Office. I reached another point that would interest me: To what extent does the Foreign Office support such measures and efforts as – and I asked the Minister of Defence yesterday – the publication of a manual on Austrian security policy? On the platform that this manual has produced, an institution is particularly prominent, namely the Institute for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, which, as I have to point out, will appear to be more active in the next few months with events. – So what?, you can escape. But these are events which are quite clearly going in a certain direction, namely those which are particularly applied and supported by only one option of future foreign and security policy and which is also particularly concentrated in the public. This leads me back to the question that my previous speaker has raised: What will the development be like in the next ten, 15 or 20 years if such changes are already made? Another question that arises is: In what "Constitutional Arch" do we still find ourselves on what legal basis? – If we are still on the constitutional principle of neutrality – and I assume – then I expect several or all options of a possible foreign and security policy to be presented equally, to be heard in the discussion and to be used equally in the budget. They should also be given access to the public and public representation. If I consider this issue from this point of view, then the so-called small things are also found in the budget, which emerge and are always associated with a possible NATO option. It is also noticeable – this is not related to the 1999 budget, but to the current budget, but it is all to be seen with regard to the developments of the next ten or 20 years – that for the first time this year the NATO workshop is taking place in Austria, which otherwise only takes place in those countries that are NATO members. He will be taking place in Austria today. This too will certainly be budgetaryly effective, even for the foreign office, when it comes to representative measures, as I suspect. I would ask you once again to look at the direction in which developments in the next ten and 20 years will go. How are we going to set the course in this direction today and now, and what measures are we going to take? I am already at the next point in my speech, Mr Foreign Minister. I would like to ask you once again the following question – in the Committee we have already discussed it, lastly on the occasion of the NATO troop statute and NATO-SOFA: What are you saying about the fact that not any official of your foreign office or your ministry, but the ambassador of Austria in the United States is publishing a book in which, in my opinion, he comes up with a very self-evident interpretation of neutrality, in my group's opinion? It comes to an interpretation of neutrality, which creates complete facts and assumes that we are neutral, but still can participate in NATO. – This is a short description of what the Austrian ambassador writes in an article. In case of doubt, if there is really a conflict situation, we will call upon NATO membership to act more and better, of course. This is, as has already been said, a very short description. With this creation of completed facts, the author comes to a dynamic interpretation of neutrality – perhaps in the sense of your ministry. We can still remember the situation when, during the Gulf War, it was about granting flight permits. At that time it was argued – and with quotations from the Federal Government – that this is not a case of neutrality, since there is no war. In retrospect, it was then argued that this was, so to speak, a piece of evasion and the outbreak of neutrality. This is how we see the policy: Piece by piece is broken out of a constitutional reality. This will also be understandable and re-readable in the budget figures, so that Europe's external and security policies are set in a single way, without having had sufficient parliamentary and public debate and debate on the various options, let alone a decision-making or an opinion-making process going in which direction we are going in principle. – It is very likely to be read and criticised from the report, although not on the basis of, as has already been said, concrete figures. But in the intention it is clearly legible. Another topic that has already been addressed: It is right that the 1998 and 1999 budgets should be mixed again and again, because this is not so easy to separate. Things that will be decided in 1998, for example in the context of the EU Presidency, actions, initiatives that will be put in place at the time of this EU Presidency, will also be budgetaryly effective in the next year or in the coming years. Of course I'm not. In this respect, it is legitimate to discuss or at least discuss this issue at least on the basis of the 1999 budget. I come to another central point of my speech: I miss an external focus on the time of the EU Presidency, and therefore of course also a corresponding budgetary impact. I have heard that the Germans who are going to hold the Presidency have already declared a priority. During their Presidency, they want to accept relations with Russia in particular. As an extremely important country on the verge of Europe, if you want to do so, on the edge of the European Union, Russia should be a foreign policy priority of its Presidency. I think it would also be good for Austria to announce, as early as possible, the establishment of an external policy focus for the time of the EU Presidency, for another country on the verge of Europe. We could step up initiatives and initiate efforts which would then be described and would certainly have budgetary implications for the next year. – However, I cannot see such an approach. In my opinion, a country would be particularly suitable for such a focus, namely Turkey – and this for many reasons. It is only one thing that has been taken out at this point, it is highly up-to-date, and it is almost daily to read about it in the newspapers: What is Turkey's current position on the European Union? – I hear from the Foreign Office – and can also read this in your documents – that you have come to appreciate that Turkey has options for accession to the EU. We know, however, that the country itself has a very different assessment of the situation. We know that due to the differences and differences in the different assessments, there have been no unheicy and humane situations, such as the arrest of a number of officials of the Kurdish Party, the HADEP, or the recent attack on the chairmen of the Human Rights Organization in Ankara. Further, increased Turkish army intervention in the Kurds and also in Iraq was carried out. This list could continue. This is not the only problem facing the country, as we know. On the one hand, there is the serious conflict between Greece and Turkey, on the other hand, the Cyprus question. This is very much related to the issues of the European Union and integration. All of this could be a priority. It is not enough, Mr Foreign Minister, to say: Yeah, we're on it, we're doing it, we're doing it. I mean, you'd be well advised to say: We take this as a priority and then we continue to play this ball in a way, for example, to one of the countries that follows us in the Presidency of the Council. We will continue these activities in the next few years. This too would be a debate on the question of where Europe is developing outside and security policy over the next ten, 15, 20 years and what we can contribute to this development. We will have an opportunity in one or two months to have a foreign policy debate. A discussion about the possibilities of Austria would be quite exciting. A few words to the case of Croatia, which is currently being strongly criticised by the OSCE, namely, with regard to the non-compliance with the agreement, the impossibility of the return of refugees to the areas of Serbian refugees. The question arises as to how Croatia deals with minority rights, what the country fulfils or does not fulfil the corresponding contractual obligations, and to what extent the rights of minorities are taken into account. Croatia has long been one of the priorities of your predecessor. At that time, however, it was more about war mutilations to call it that. Now it would be a real challenge for Austria to say that it is a diplomatic effort to ensure that the agreements, which were also entered into with the signing of the peace agreement, are respected in the future. In my opinion, because of its former relations in Croatia, Austria has quite the opportunity to influence and achieve something. However, I cannot see such a focus, just as I do not see – to come back to it again – that that area of foreign policy, which is conflict prevention measures and the intensification of diplomatic relations, i.e. dialogue and discussion, would have an impact on the budget. In this case, these budget items should be increased if this is to be a priority for the next years or for the next year. We could continue at this point. It was also about the issue of Easter enlargement and Austria's contribution to East enlargement. Where do we find relevant information? If this were to be a priority of the EU Council Presidency, a declared priority of the EU Council Presidency, then some measures would follow that would be necessary – also next year. However, this cannot be read out of this budget, nor for the focus that we will repeatedly demand from you and for which the EU Presidency would offer a good opportunity, namely the nuclear-free zone initiative in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's a lot of things you could do about it. There are international efforts and pursuits with quite high reputation that you could attach to. The EU Presidency would be a good opportunity to declare an Austrian foreign policy priority and to put three priorities away from everything on the Presidency's agenda, namely Turkey, the eastern enlargement and the nuclear-free zones. - Why not? They could only do so if Austria, as a country with an intermediary position and a neutral status that is nuclear-free and has a nuclear-lock law, advocates the establishment of mandatory international declarations, bilaterally as well as multilaterally. This should not be voluntary declarations on the part of a military pact against candidate countries and candidate countries, but rather should be made subject to international law. The appropriate explanations should be prepared. That would be the next step to take now. If you were to take such a step, he would have to be clear from the budget of the Foreign Office – but I cannot see anything corresponding. This should not, as has been said, be done within the framework of the agenda and the activities you are setting there or there. I know that you are setting up activities there or there. In this case, however, efforts and efforts are being made beyond that. The Austrian foreign policy could be measured and measured by saying: Over the next five years, we are making stronger efforts in diplomatic relations. We are putting increased efforts into the relationship between countries. We make increased efforts in conflict prevention measures, such as in classical missions and in election observations, instead of supporting events and publications that clearly go towards NATO accession to Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Finally, let me focus on a subject which is going in the same direction, namely development cooperation. In this sense, Mr Minister, it is not enough for development cooperation to be maintained just at the level it has held in recent years. In the sense of these non-military activities, these cooperation activities, these diplomatic activities, which are also developmental activities, it would be high time that this budget was increased on the one hand and, on the other hand, carefully and critically reflected and not undermined by de facto re-designing, re-moving and disseminating cooperation. I could list the list of those organisations that carry out this development cooperation and which, through delayed contracts and payments, is almost impossible to carry out further – also because you still refuse to enter into multi-annual contracts, as is usual in other countries. Your policy not only leads to the stagnation of the budget in development policy and in development cooperation, but also to the fact that development cooperation actually comes back, because projects can no longer be implemented and because there is no financial security for these cooperation projects and models. All of this can be seen from the point of view of the fact that you are constantly showing clear priorities in the military field, and that it is obvious that in the 1999 budget, the possibilities for Austria in the...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2754	I would ask you to close your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2770	... classical foreign policy would have and would have been available.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2800	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2821	High house! I take the liberty to address some questions and fundamental comments after the first round. I begin with the question of what can actually be a new definition of the tasks of a foreign ministry, since almost all the speakers of the five political groups have described the changed role of Austrian foreign policy since accession to the European Union. I think this is a very interesting and exciting topic. We are also already in the middle of this repositioning process, which can be read at any time in the technical, political and organisational fields. We are in a special situation due to the construction of the European Union as Foreign Minister. On the one hand, we are responsible for the common foreign and security policy, which is still at the beginning, but which is moving towards a goal every day with very slow steps. As we did not accept ten years ago that there will be a monetary union, I believe that a common European foreign and security policy will indeed take shape in ten years. We are therefore, on the one hand, Foreign Ministers at European level, but at the same time, because we are the Council of General Affairs, in fact also the Ministers of Europe within the Union. We are in fact responsible for everything, because in general, everything comes together. In other words, the Agenda 2000 will be handled by the Foreign Ministers. The institutional conferences, such as the Amsterdam Treaty, have been conducted by the Foreign Ministers. All trade policy issues, that is all that Community law is, will be addressed by us in the general Council. Of course, there are all the issues that the institutions – the Commission, the Parliament, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors – have to address in this General Council. I am saying that so that we can see that a relatively equal budget on the one hand – it is a small ministry with one of the smallest budgets at all – is facing a dramatic increase in expenditure on the other. That is why, I believe, it is a small miracle and really only thanks to the willingness and creative intelligence of the staff of the ministry that we can meet a demand for light-years with the same budget and the same employee share as before. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It should also be mentioned that we have made dramatic organizational changes over the last three years. I have mentioned it in the committee - Peter Schieder has rightly pointed out - that we are the first Ministry to have the electronic act. It has not yet been implemented 100%, but we are the only ministry that has introduced this innovation. By the way, we are also exemplary in Europe, and many come to us to see how this works. I hope that this will also be done in school, because only in this way will the increased effort actually be created. We are one of the largest civil service ministers. I am not sure whether all people really know – the Austrian taxpayers should know that – that with a very small staff – 800 people abroad – we have a million citizens in the service of the Austrians or in the service of citizens who come to Austria or want to do business with Austrians. A million – this is an incredible density of contacts! I would like to say one thing very seriously: I listened well to Jörg Haider, and I would like to reject at this point the suspicion that the employees, whether they are Austrians or working sur place, could almost be bribed by everyone – by Mafiosi or by whoever else – in order to make it easier for them to come to a visa. That's just not true. The employees in Germany and abroad do excellent work according to best knowledge and conscience, and I really want to reject this accusation with determination. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a ministry, which is also mentioned, which does very little public work, precisely because it has a very small budget. Mrs Kammerlander, you can and may be critical of me – in terms of content or politics, as always – but the claim that we have spent a lot on propaganda in recent years is simply not true. You can also send a request to me at any time, which I will be happy to answer to you on point and addition. We spend much, much too little to be able to provide sufficient information. As you have referred to the NATO issue, Madam President, I should also like to say an open word on this: There should be a little bit of a calm public discussion, and we should avoid any fear of contact, especially as an Austrian who should be open. What is the point when a NATO workshop, a high-ranking seminar – ministers, military, Heads of State and Presidents – will be held in Austria, which will discuss this, such as at the beginning of the 21st century. Can a modern security policy look like a modern one? That's good! I am just as pleased that peace movements from all over the world come together at Schlaining Castle and think about how a reasonable conflict prevention can look at the threshold of the next millennium. There is nothing to do with Parliamentary information on the spot as to how the new policy of the new NATO is. I would say that these activities are, of course, moving on the ground of our constitution. An ambassador will probably still be allowed to write articles. Madam President, I will be the first to defend his right to free speech and to a free article. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a politician, I also say quite openly to you: I therefore have my difficulties with the term 'neutrality' today, because I believe that the term 'neutral' is no longer so appropriate in our time. I'll tell you why. In Bosnia, the concept of neutrality does not help. Today, for example, the president of Kosovo, Rugova, was with me with his advisers. All that you rightly advocated here, Mrs Deputies, takes place daily in Austrian foreign policy: Contacts with Turkey and with the Croats, pressure exercise to facilitate the return of refugees, facilitating the life of Kosovo Albanians, providing useful support or talking with Miloševi% to encourage him to initiate the peace process and stability of the region – for this reason I will perhaps go to Belgrade next week. Only one thing I would like to say quite frankly to you: Neutrality is the wrong concept in this context. Solidarity is called for in solidarity with the victims, with the people, solidarity with human rights, solidarity with minorities or with people who have difficulties because of their religious or other beliefs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] - That's the point! I would also like to express my opinion on this NATO today very openly and in no way diplomatically. You have also failed to correct the budget figures, I think. If you already say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a budget of 4 billion and the Ministry of Defence has one of 21 billion schillings, then you must also say that Austrian peacekeeping in Bosnia is paid out of the Minister of Defence's budget. If you are talking about 500 million or 800 million Schilling members' contributions to an international organization, you should also add that the entire operation in Bosnia, which has been running for over two years, has cost almost 10 billion dollars up to the hour. It is not about doing war games there, but the operation was a last emergency brake to bring about a bloody war directed against the peoples there. These are the things that I believe should be said in an external policy debate in the context of a budget discussion and which are also important to be said in the Austrian public. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The EU Presidency has also been mentioned as the next major issue for us. I say quite frankly to you that this is indeed a great challenge for us and one of the most exciting tasks that small Austria has and has taken over in recent years and decades. I also believe that we are well prepared. I would like to present a little bit of the dimension I have experienced myself. I was praised as a Federal Minister in April 1989. I was a member of the National Council ten years ago. In April 1989 – and this is supposed to be the drama of change – we had not yet sent our application for accession to Brussels. There were then some discussions about whether you should, when you should et cetera. On the other hand, today's situation: In 35 days we will take over the Presidency of the European Union. We have been fully involved – the EU Presidency, the Europe project is a joint project today, and it is widely recognised and supported by the political parties. Of course, there are also question marks, risks, reservations – I understand everything. But it is an incredible drama of change that is happening here. When I was praised, there was still the dead border. By the way, for a few years, I was a Member of Parliament in the Waldviertel, and I have experienced on my own observations exactly what that means: All the flourishing economic flows, so to speak, the arteries towards the Waldviertel and the Czech Republic, were cut. "Death border" has said that one cannot freely pass over that one could not trade. – Today – that should be said in the direction of all those who are in principle anxiously opposed to the enlargement discussion, one must take seriously, but I do not understand the principle of rejection – we have 15 000 joint ventures from Austrian companies beyond the border, and these, of course, are guaranteed by the combination – even that is forgotten, notable even at Principalhorn – also jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Today there are no more joint ventures, today they go out immediately!]] President Leo Maderthaner knows very well, of course. At that time we had no trade surplus with Central and Eastern Europe. In these nine years since 1989, more than in any other European country, the share of trade has tripled. Today we have a trade surplus of 20 billion schilling. I therefore believe that, although one should take concerns seriously, it should not, in principle, address the matter. We should rather consider how, together with the other countries of Central Europe, we can make this enlargement a mutual success. I say to you that this is just as possible as the very difficult enlargement with Spain and Greece, which has been done for the benefit of the Spanish and Greeks, but also for the benefit of the European Union at the time and today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I experienced this nine years ago when the mine belts, the machine gun nests, the barbed wire sharks were still fully intact. At the time, Alois Mock cut the barbed wire with Gyula Horn, the Hungarian Prime Minister still in office. Today, two of our neighbours, then Warsaw Pact States, are becoming NATO members – the ratification process is currently under way. These are changes that one should see and that can also give us the strength to look into the next ten years with confidence and optimism. I do not believe that we can and should not talk about problems, but I believe that the development that I have been able to follow as a minister – and I am very grateful for it – is also an opportunity to understand that these problems can be dealt with positively for our country. That is why I believe that the Presidency is important to us. We can do a lot inside and outside. Some points have already been mentioned, such as the Border Country Programme under the Agenda. I actually see this very sober. Within the framework of the agenda, within the framework of the new Structural Funds, each country, as in the case of a normal financial settlement for its people, will try to get something out of its regions. I say quite frankly to you: It is important to me that we not only look at this Structural Funds discussion, as the Finns do for the Arctic region, the Spanish for olive production, the Bavaria for their eastern border and the new Länder, but I believe that our regions have a right, on the one hand, to the enlargement candidate countries, not to be disadvantaged by the fact that all the Union's funding funds are invested beyond the border – I say, properly to reduce the economic distance – while nothing is happening on the other side of the border. I don't accept that. That is why we are fighting for reasonable investment and assistance on our side of the border: in infrastructure, in jobs, in telecommunications, in language training and in the deepening of human contacts. That's important to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what we'll achieve. Why is that pessimistic, Mrs Gredler? We'll achieve that. It will not be a target area of its own – which nobody has asked – but it will be taken into account within the framework of Objective 1 funding – Burgenland is a border region, which is why it already falls into a border country programme by definition, and we will also be particularly concerned with Objective 2 areas. I would also like to mention INTERREG here. Mr Haider, this is not so little money. All Community initiatives together will be worth about ECU 11 billion for six or seven years, or EUR 11 billion. At human discretion, half of these will flow into this Community initiative INTERREG. So that's not so little money. But it could be a lot more than we have today. That is why, I believe, we should combine efforts and try to get as much as possible out of these financial compensation negotiations for our people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Some sentences, because it hurts me – and I say that quite openly to Mr Dr. Haider – to the Olympic application of Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Austrian Olympic Committee!]] This is a Kärntner/Klagenfurter application for the games in 2006, it is an Austrian, Kärntner/Klagenfurter application, which I also like to identify as an Austrian application without borders: The competitions will also take place in places that are in Slovenia and in the Friuli. – What more fascinating can there be than in a region where two World Wars have been fought, where hundreds of thousands of people have died, where partisans and defense fighters have stood against each other, to do everything to make this thing work? If the idea "Olympia" at all It makes sense – peace games, peaceful competition of athletes instead of any military power or muscle games – then in this region of Austria. That is why we are pooling the forces! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, there are professionals to work on. I also say quite openly: You only get professionals if you pay them decently. No question at all! And if someone does his job well, then he's worth every schilling of his salary. Let us stop bringing this kind of spiritual pepita into the public political debate! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ, with the Greens as well as with the Liberal Forum.]] Everyone will benefit, I tell you, and the region of Carinthia will benefit from such cross-border games as no other region of Europe. I am saying this because we are all often suspected that, for some party policy reasons, we cannot succeed each other, put haxel and so on. A little more courage – I say now at the beginning of the Austrian EU Presidency – at my own size and also more confidence in your own strength would be important to me and could perhaps be disputed. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Jö!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In my opinion, the EU Presidency, which we will certainly talk about, also has the meaning – and this is important – that we frame and pool our priorities. We must show that we can do this, that we are capable of doing this: a sober, professional and absolutely committed Presidency within the European Union. And precisely because we Austrians have been on the verge of the institutions of Europe for a very long time – as a country outside the European Economic Community, later Community, today Union – we will ensure during the presidency that we do not make Europe a closed fortress, where the railway bridges are simply opened up, no one comes in and we are not interested in what is outside. It can't be that way. It can't work. Because Austria is a small country, we know that if Europe wants a global player – and the world needs such a global player, not only the Americans; nothing against them, but I believe that Europe can bring important sentences and ideas in addition – we must also have the courage to put ourselves. Especially because we Austrians have a great need for security, we must be prepared to export stability so that we do not eventually import unwanted instability. We Austrians have just learned how little solidarity exists in the state community. I remember 1938. At that time, our country experienced little solidarity, only from the Mexicans. I would like to thank them for this. Later our country experienced solidarity, namely through the Marshall Plan aid – a great gift from the American people. That is why we must fight in the time of our EU Presidency for European solidarity. And we must also be prepared to live solidarity ourselves. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This solidarity is needed in all regions of the world. In this context, one will have to be interested in Tibet – as Mrs Gredler is right in a hundred percent – and one will have to look after the situation of the Palestinian people just as much as the need not to neglect the security needs of the Israeli people. The question of the Kurds will be raised, the question of human rights in Algeria or in other Maghreb countries will be addressed and the victims of mines will be taken care of. One will accept the persecuted Christians as well as the Muslims or followers of other religions who suffer persecution because of their conviction. – This should not be too short during the Austrian Presidency. In this sense – and I have come to the conclusion – it would be important for me to exclude a small budget chapter, a partial chapter, namely development cooperation. I think it is embarrassing to be puzzled whether taxpayers – it is not too many anyway – are being used in Uganda or Bosnia, Afghanistan, Nepal or Bhutan. We have experienced help ourselves, and it is important that we too help. The Austrians sometimes understand this better than some of their representatives in politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e2985	Mrs Tichy-Schreder spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3007	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to the Foreign Minister that he has referred to the priorities that Austria will set in the context of his EU Presidency in the next six months and that Mrs Kammerlander may have missed in his speech. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is well prepared – this is what we all hear when we travel abroad, because we are constantly getting compliments on how Austria is preparing for the EU Presidency. We also take this task very seriously. And perhaps Austria will find itself upright for its own strength and for a – urgently necessary – course, because we sometimes still feel like a small country. Despite our now considerable economic strength, we sometimes still have inferiorities, which we do not actually need. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] From abroad, we have repeatedly received consent to the nature of our negotiation in international communities and to our attempts to be positive in mediation tasks. Mrs Kammerlander! Of course, the priorities of our foreign policy cannot always be measured by the budget. The Foreign Minister has already said that the peace-building measures are contained in the Ministry of Defence's budget and, in part, in the case of police operations, in that of the Ministry of the Interior. Moreover, diplomatic missions cannot only be measured in money. The intellectual capacity of the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is important, and this is, as we know everywhere, very high, and is actually the largest capital of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also very grateful to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Vice-Chancellor for the fact that he is now introducing the ED in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This should also be a model for other ministries, and perhaps, Mr President Fischer, for our House, Parliament. Even in the House, an electronic file run could be introduced and thus avoid frequent copying. In view of the many questions we are getting, we could show them in the House, because this would make it possible for us to be more economical in dealing with the resources of the House. In my view, this would be an approach to act in this direction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and Deputies Wimmer and Dr Gredler.]] Mr Haider! They have taken up a point where Austria is an example of development for many of our neighbouring countries, namely EU enlargement. In their opinion, therefore, there are very great fears in the population. - I'll give you the following: There are fears! But I would like to give you examples of the fact that it is not easy to say that only jobs are lost as a result of the enlargement of the East. We all know that the globalisation of the economy – which has always existed – once stronger, once weaker – shift jobs and productions. But to the same extent, new jobs are developing in new branches of the economy: whether in services, services, science or health. I would like to give you just one example, as I am an entrepreneur, of the fact that productions in which simple work is carried out are very likely to be transferred to other countries and that they are losing jobs, but on the other hand they can create and secure higher-quality jobs in the country. Mr Schüssel has already said in his capacity as Minister for Economic Affairs that we have Hong Kong at the doorstep, as it were. It is usually true that labour costs are an important factor in this matter, but we always forget that there is also a performance behind labour costs. I would like to give you an example from my own area. Gloves are produced in Europe. In Portugal they can be produced cheaper than in Hungary. Nevertheless, glove production tends to migrate to Hungary because the quality of production is better there. It costs more, but the quality is better! No one will go to Portugal with its production because the quality is not there to this extent. So it depends on whether the quality is delivered. Quality performance in our neighbouring countries is different. The glove area in Hungary is excellent, in other areas you will only have to gain in quality. Even European producers are very likely to consider whether the labour force in a controlled location already has the training to perform the desired performance. There is still a great deal of work to be done to increase the level of performance in these labour markets. The Austrian economy contributes to the economic strengthening of these countries by exporting know-how and setting up joint ventures. And this slowly increases the wage level. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Completely right!]] The Austrian state has benefited greatly, and we will continue to benefit from it in the future. The workers there must learn to do their work at a pace that they did not know before. But even in our businesses, the pace of work we have today did not come from today to tomorrow, but had to be developed slowly. And the mobility movements are not given to the extent that we sometimes imagine. It is important, on the one hand, that we help our neighbours to grow more economically. On the other hand, it is also necessary and important that we Austrians, because we are at the intersection of European cultures, continue to carry the understanding we have for these cultures to Europe in order to find a common positive way so that Europe will not only be given economic, but also security and foreign policy in the future. Austria can make a very good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3062	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3084	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a word about my immediate predecessor, who is concerned about the performance of our eastern neighbours in the light of any Easter enlargement. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Don't worry!]] I'm not worried about the neighbours in this sense. In the Czech Republic, for example, the old Schnitzler word falls into my mind: The Czechs are an industrial people. – If you think about what the Škoda among the cars is already on the road today, you know how it is going! [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Who says that?]] It was Schnitzler. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Ah! The schnitzler!]] An industrial people! Note the word creation, it's not uninteresting. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Dr. Ofner! I'll give you that!]] Assuming that the neighbours will not do anything anyway and that production will remain in Austria in the long run, the Czechs, Hungary and all those in question are not right. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: No!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's where you misunderstand me!]] They are on the best way to overtake us in one sector or another. – So much for your "comforting" words! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now on my real topic: On the question of who would enter the "waiting room" for the EU, Slovakia has been transferred. This was due, among other things, to the fact that they do not grant the right to minorities within their borders, especially Hungary. – This is an interesting decision. In my opinion, it is measured by two measures, because in the neighbouring country of Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, there is an old-Austrian minority of German tongues, which includes at least 60 000, after some countings 200 000 people. This group of people of the Altösterreich German tongue, which is important in numbers, does not have any rights at all in the Czech Republic. This has not yet been pointed out by anyone in the EU, especially the Austrians. There are no rights for the Old Austria German tongue in the Czech Republic. The Beneš decrees from 1945 and 1946 also apply there. Under the term "Beneš decrees", one or the other may not really be able to imagine something. I have therefore let them be removed and can read sentences from it. It says, among other things: "The wealth of the state unreliable persons in the territory of the Czechoslovak Republic" – please remember this term! – "is placed under national administration in accordance with the further provisions of this decree." "As a stately unreliable person" – we have it again – "are to be seen: Persons of German or Madjar nationality." In the sense of this decree, persons of German nationality have not only been understood by the Germans in the narrower sense, but also by the Austrians and, above all, the Liechtensteinians. The Liechtensteiners were very powerful, and it was very important to get this fortune. The Beneš decrees also set out: "With immediate effectiveness and indemnity, for the purpose of soil reform, the agricultural property is expropriated, which is owned by: all persons of German and Madjar nationality, without regard to nationality." It also says: "The... Czechoslovak citizens of German or Madjar nationality lose Czechoslovak citizenship on the day when this decree enters into force." – It is from 1945. In addition, the following provision shall be added: "An action that occurred in the time of 30. ==References== ==References====External links== May 1945, i.e. half a year before, to the end! – "It was planned and the purpose of which was to contribute to the fight for the recovery of the freedom of the Czechs and Slovaks" – the freedom of the Czechs and Slovaks had already been won for half a year – "or the aim of a fair retribution for actions by the Okcupants or their helpers is not unlawful, even if otherwise it would have been punishable according to the applicable rules." – So all of this applies retroactively to actions up to half a year after the end of the war! Ladies and gentlemen! The latter provision applies to the fact that 242,000 Old Austrian German tongues were killed in the course of the expulsion, but also to the murder of 250 000 German prisoners of war in Czechoslovakia at that time. All these provisions, such as the loss of wealth and the withdrawal of citizenship, were met only because they belonged to a particular language group – the German, Hungarian or Magyar language group. Even those provisions that allowed everything to be done – even killing people – are consciously still applicable today and, as we know from the newspapers – the Court of Justice in Brno has decided in this direction for example – are still being applied even today. That is to say, an immense injustice that, if you are very tolerant, you may still understand from the wait of 1945, but certainly cannot apologise, is today, 50 years later, still applicable law, which is also applied. And with such a legal matter, the Czechs are left in the waiting room for the EU, but the Slovaks are allowed to do so because they treat Hungary badly. And no one touches a finger, even the Austrians who have a protective function on this question. In today's very long and very interesting statements by Mr Vice-Chancellor in his capacity as Foreign Minister, I have missed the fact that he would have dealt with this problem with a word. It is similar in Slovenia. Slovenia, as has now been found scientifically, also has this minority within its borders, namely the ethnic group of the Old Austrian German tongue. The rights of this minority are zero. There are also provisions from the time that were in accordance with the Beneš decrees. These are the so-called AVNOJ provisions. I can quote from it, because one or the other may not have it at present: "With the date of entry into force of this Decision, the ownership of the State shall be:... all assets of persons of German nationality." – This includes and is still understood by Germans in the narrower sense and by Austrians today. The Liechtensteiners have saved themselves from the Yugoslavs, who were probably not so important there. Interestingly, the leading of German family names is already sufficient to be attributed to this circle, for there are exceptions which say that in these and those cases the leadership of German family names is not sufficient. In order that there may be no doubt as to what is meant, it continues in the AVNOJ provisions: "A confiscation of assets is the compulsory, indemnification-free removal of the entire assets (full confiscation)." I do not want to bore you any longer, but this legal asset – as the relevant Slovenian representatives explain – is quite conscious and not mistakenly also in the course of the turn that took place a few years ago in the fundus of Slovenian legal assets. But even this incisive injustice seems to be no reason to question this right that is still in force. How do these countries actually want to get to the EU with such a legal matter? How can countries such as the Czech Republic or Slovenia, which are committed to democracy and the rule of law and strive for the EU, seriously accept such a legal matter, which, for example, is still being applied in the Czech Republic today – not in 1945 – by the courts to come to the EU? [[Abg. May. Main: Slovenia too! 1991!]] No one's upset about it! Where are the Austrians? We're the security force! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Although one of my previous speakers has addressed the problems of the Altösterreich German tongue in Slovenia, there was no single word in the long and interesting statements made by Mr Vice-Chancellor – I repeat it – for this. I now come to another issue: development cooperation. My point is that we have to consider, focus and focus on this, as well as under appropriate control, because it is about the use of Austrian means of taxation outside the borders of our country. However, I would also like to point out that it must be of great interest to the Austrians and to all other Europeans – and not only to the Europeans – that the Third World is taking place as peaceful, peaceful and positive as possible, and that poverty in these areas is also permanently countered. We know that there are successes in this sector from unmistakable statistical documents. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] There must be a peaceful and peaceful development. We know – it is empirically demonstrated – that if poverty succeeds in fighting where it is most pressing, it will have the impact that no one in this world can have, namely, a very significant decline in population explosion. The population explosion is not as huge as it used to be, where poverty has been halfway under control. Ladies and gentlemen! We must keep in mind, with all due respect for the careful handling of Austrian tax resources, especially beyond the border, when it comes to development cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3220	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3241	Mr President. High house! It is not only because we are in a coalition with the ÖVP that we need to work with Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister – we also want to do so. I mean, it was a very competent and very interesting opinion that he has given here today, and I really want to congratulate him on that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to add something on the content. This "What can you, what can't you?" is often just brought in by groups that have historically taken action against many things that are not allowed to happen. But there can be no taboo in the security debate. I didn't know what sense it makes when you put on your own shackles here and don't start to discuss really comprehensive, cross-border, just debilitating thinking. And dettabulated thinking and discussing means that the question is whether the concept of neutrality makes sense, whether it is perhaps not a substitute for the concept of solidarity and should be replaced. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Say this to your own group!]] I'll bet you do that. I am one of those who believe that even now, even if one thinks and debates at ten-year intervals, one can have an opinion and wonder whether one should perhaps not think about a professional force, whether it is perhaps a realistic option for NATO membership, whether perhaps the debate on civil service and the question of the replacement of civil service also includes thinking about voluntary social services and also having a debate on the social state and its funding. – These are many, many areas that, as I believe, one should discuss distabulously. I do agree when it is said that NATO has been renewed. But even if you want to go into this NATO, there are many points that are still to be changed. Retirement in the field of land-based nuclear weapons: I know that there has already been a degradation in the armaments area. But how about the doctrine of the leadership of the nuclear war? What about the question of the first blow? – These are still relics from the Cold War. I think that if you already have the concept of going into institutions, you should also know what you want in it, then you should also know how you want to continue to participate in order to give the term "NATO-neu" a real legitimacy. I have quite a lot of critical comments and a lot of reflections about the fact that one should perhaps go further into the depth and participate constructively in this discussion process. In the same way, I see this also with regard to the issue of Easter enlargement, less with regard to the fact that Europe should not be confined to the current borders. There we are completely d’accord. I am just saying that this is really to be discussed with great care, because this can also have a concrete negative impact on the Eastern European countries themselves – not only on Austria, not only on Western Europe – if this project is not addressed in a responsible, sensible way. I wonder how many of the Eastern European countries, who are just happy to have gained their independence from the Soviet Union, from the COMECON, from the Warsaw Pact, are now thinking with great joy about joining the EU, probably not yet knowing what limitations this can mean in relation to the newly acquired sovereignty. Some do not know what this actually has to do with their own country if they have to make adjustments in the infrastructural, social, economic and environmental fields. I am really in favour of all the difficulties that are now being faced – the institutional reform for the EU, which I do not think is really on the table, the many questions of the reform of the agricultural fund, I do not want to list all of this now, I do not have the time to discuss it openly, because this gradual enlargement in the EU Member States as well as in the Eastern European countries must be a majority. One must not arouse illusions when desires are articulated, which may not be attainable to the extent and speed. There is a need to establish honest criteria for possible, potential accession. - I wanted to add that. I would like to say that I am very happy to support, of course, the five-party proposal to the Temelin nuclear power plant, which is intended to change and seek other forms of energy and which will best stop construction. And I would like to ask one more question to the Minister as the last one. He has expressed himself critically to the Middle East in connection with the Oslo process, to the difficulties that the Netanyahu government is making, to the possibilities of an "economic boycott", I say now under the lead, on the part of the EU. I'd like to know how he evaluates that. I am aware that he has brought a lot of criticism, at least I have read it out of the APA. I am also very critical of what the current Israeli government is bringing in. I think that we are not alone – there are also critical comments from the American administration. What would interest me, Mr Foreign Minister, is: Where do you see solutions, or where can you continue here? Are the thoughts that are now being discussed in the EU possible approaches, or could it not possibly happen to the Palestinians themselves if one begins to think about whether one does not initiate some kind of economic boycott towards products produced in the occupied territories? - So that would interest me very much. I hope you have the kindness to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3287	Mr Hans Helmut Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3311	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his reply after the first round of this debate on the 1999 budget, the Federal Minister pointed out, inter alia, that it made sense to have a broad political consensus on the issue of foreign policy. And I say quite honestly, my group and I fully agree with the Foreign Minister. In the past, especially under its predecessor, there has been this broad political consensus, and I regret that this political consensus has been partially lost in recent years. Mr Federal Minister, this political consensus requires that there be a permanent dialogue on foreign policy as well as security issues, a permanent dialogue not only within the Federal Government, but also with the other parliamentary parties, also with the opposition. I would really like this dialogue to be resumed and regular talks and debates between the Foreign Minister and the foreign policy and security spokespersons of the parliamentary parties. Ladies and gentlemen! This dialogue with the foreign policy and security spokespersons of the parliamentary parties would lead us to a broad political consensus and to an improvement in the situation in foreign policy, which is very important for our country, both outside and in our international presence. Mrs Tichy-Schreder and Mrs Kammerlander have raised the question of the budget that 4.1 billion schilling available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be insufficient in comparison to the national defence budget. In particular, Mr Kammerlander pointed out that foreign operations were paid and financed by the Ministry of Defence. I believe that the fact that this budget item is mentioned in the area of the national defence department is indeed a problem. I would like to put this into the debate, because it does not make sense that foreign operations and, in general, the operations which the German army is carrying out will not be financed by means of a special budget. After all, this is about 1 billion schilling a year. This 1 billion schilling is at the expense of the army's peacekeeping, at the expense of training, at the expense of the modernisation of the army. These are, in turn, essential conditions for our UN soldiers to be able to perform professionally in foreign operations. I therefore believe that it would also be in the interest of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the interest of the Foreign Minister, if the financing of foreign operations were otherwise regulated. I should like to ask the Foreign Minister and Vice-President if the Minister of Defence is not able to implement a sensible solution within the Federal Government to take appropriate initiatives so that we can take a new path. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tichy-Schreder pointed out that Austria would lack self-confidence in the public appearance. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes!]] I am not entirely of this view. My impression regarding the international field is rather that we have an excellent, very dedicated diplomatic service and that the ladies and gentlemen of the Diplomatic Corps are very well able to represent and represent the interests of Austria and our country accordingly. I would like to thank you at this point. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: You didn't understand! I mean, all the way!]] The problem I see – and perhaps we come together – is that we have a very large proportion of bureaucratic regulations, and that work is a little disability because we often get too late in the presentation of our political ideas, and that we also show an intellectual refusal - I almost say - that we are really unable to bring ourselves in conceptually at the respective levels. I would like to bring the example of the European Union. I believe that in Europe's policy we have not yet achieved the step away from a national foreign policy approach to the European dimension – see Common Foreign and Security Policy. The question of what prospects we see in the context of security policy is, in my view, a classic, typical example of this refusal to intellectually introduce ourselves at European level and also to recognise and accept the realities accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I should like to turn to three points which I would like to make in the debate. First of all, the question of the perspective of Austrian security policy: Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned this. I regret that the Federal Government's report on options did not come to pass. I believe that this is a wrong chance and that the failure to take decisions will ultimately have an adverse effect on Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What would it have been about? – It would have been necessary to define the perspective for Austria’s integration within the framework of the European security system, and it would therefore have been necessary to deal with the possibilities in a very concrete and realistic manner and to discuss them in an open, fair manner. Even if the Federal Government had not reached a common outcome, there would have been at least an open debate in this House on all possibilities. What should not take place, however, is this refusal of discussion. I have no understanding at all, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, that your group is currently participating in this refusal of discussion in the House. [[Abg. Scheibner: An increase in Parliament!]] Your group has an option, but it is also your group that has not even allowed talks on it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' Subcommittee. It has been said that there will be no consensus, and therefore we do not debate it in the Subcommittee at all and hold the discussion in the Committee on Foreign Policy. However, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it will again be held in such a way that we do not take any decisions at first. This question will therefore be postponed by the time after the EU Presidency, and we will not be able to answer this question at the very important stage of the EU Presidency, a central European function, and will not have a truly coordinated position. I really regret that it is your group that is acting in this way in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! It would also be necessary to analyse whether neutrality is still an adequate answer, and perhaps to hear those arguments why we want to stick to it on the part of the Social Democrats at all costs. I believe that the neutrality has been overtaken by history and that we will have to give colour to the debate on the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam at the latest. If we agree under the Treaty of Amsterdam that, within the framework of the European Union, we also carry out, perform and carry out the so-called Petersberg tasks accordingly, and if we are also actively contributing to peace building in Europe, we must finally accept and acknowledge that neutrality is not a security policy concept and not a security policy option for Austria. It would have been a question of whether we want the development of a European dimension, through the development of the common foreign and security policy, to the integration of the Western European Union, the security and defence policy arm of the European Union, into the European Union, and of developing a common European security and defence identity within the framework of the European Union and developing the European Union in such a way as to constitute a corresponding crisis management in Europe. I have missed that, but it would have been necessary to discuss openly the question of accession to the Western European Union. Yes, I do! We believe that this is a priority in the current situation because, through accession to the Western European Union, a dynamic development of the common foreign and security policy will also develop, as will economic and monetary union. I am very hopeful and confident that if we have a common economic and monetary union, we will also have an impact on security policy. That is why we should have answered the question clearly whether we want to join the Western European Union. Especially on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and again and again, when one has met with diplomats and has also held talks with representatives of your home, there was the impression that there is only one option, and this one and only option is to join NATO. I already admit that all security policy decisions at European level fall at NATO level. I admit that there are political decisions to be taken in the framework of NATO to develop and integrate this common European security and defence identity. But, ladies and gentlemen, we would have had the opportunity, with a accession to the Western European Union, to set the right course with a medium-term option for possible accession to NATO. But nothing has happened in this way, and with this non-decision – and I must also address this accusation to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister – we also give up a piece of sovereignty because the others decide on our security perspective, on future security policy and thus also on the integration of Austria. I think that's a wrong step, a wrong path. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it's too late. I should therefore like to ask Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister to say to his group that this discussion, which has now been passed on by the Subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will also take place during the presidency so that this time can also be used to achieve a security policy position in Austria. I believe that we will be required to do this. I would like to draw attention to another point, namely the Cyprus question. Foreign Minister, we know that during the Presidency of Austria in the EU Presidency, missiles will be stationed in the southern part of the island. This is not only about protecting some airfield with steering weapons, but also about stationing missile systems with a range of up to several hundred kilometers. This is also a matter of control of the airspace and strategic control of the eastern Mediterranean. This, of course, also affects Turkey's security interests, and there is a danger that concrete steps will be taken – they have already been announced. We will therefore be required to manage and coordinate crisis management at European level on this security policy issue. I'm looking for So you, Mr Minister, tell the House accordingly what ideas are given by your person, because the Austrians who serve in the UN mission to Cyprus are also affected and it is about our soldiers having a corresponding protection. If a conflict actually breaks out, the situation may well arise that our UN soldiers can be relocated. I would like to know what the Austrian Government is planning for such a case. Ladies and gentlemen! The third and last point is development cooperation. I assume that the speakers for the development cooperation of the other political groups will continue to address this issue. It is planned for bilateral cooperation in the budget of around 850 million schilling. We are therefore substantially below the average of the European Union, and we are therefore substantially below the OECD requirements. And I should really like to ask that the Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor attach greater importance and weight to this aspect than was the case in the past. We need to think about something that we finally have to do at international level and, above all, about the use of the funds for development cooperation, we need to evaluate this commitment. We have taken a first right and important step. We will discuss the evaluation of the projects in Uganda at the next meeting of the Subcommittee on Foreign Policy. I believe that, in general, the evaluation of the projects must be carried out after a certain period of time and that we must continue to return a report to Parliament. There is a need for action on development cooperation, in order to optimise this development cooperation, in order to achieve a better and more coordinated use of resources, but also to improve the structures of development cooperation. We need better integration of development cooperation in the field of foreign policy, in the diplomatic service. I believe that it is necessary for development cooperation to become a more integrated part of Austrian foreign policy when it comes to contributing to a peaceful development in the various regions of the world when it comes to combating world poverty. We need better integration. In addition to the diplomatic Service will be built up similar to a development cooperation service. We need better coordination of development cooperation with non-governmental organisations, with NGOs, which are the foundations of Austrian development policy. There is a need for better coordination, and there are difficulties and problems and also proposals from NGOs. I expect that their proposals will also be taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the competent State Secretary and the relevant section. Because of the fact that the law on development cooperation dates back to the 1970s, it makes sense to have a new legal system of development cooperation. I therefore propose that we hold a parliamentary survey on this so that there is a broad dialogue between the groups of the House, involving NGOs, involving experts and the economy, and that we put this issue of development cooperation on a new basis so that we can meet the challenge of the future accordingly. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[11:25]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3404	Before I give the floor to Mrs Rauch-Kallat as the next speaker, I say that the honourable Members are allowed to speak. Stadler and comrades according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigative committee to examine the political and legal responsibility of individual members of the Federal Government in connection with organised crime at home and abroad. There is also the request of five delegates in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote shall take place after completion of the agenda. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, you are speaking now. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3436	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Austria is a small country, and yet it has an important foreign policy role – not only because of its geopolitical situation and its history, but above all because of its culture, its economy, but also because of its diplomatic relations. With its foreign policy, Austria has been securing security, peace and stability for many decades, but it has also contributed significantly to ensuring security, peace and stability in the region. Especially in recent years, when a terrible war has killed in our neighbouring countries, Austria has made a significant contribution to reducing suffering. I am thinking only of the reception of refugees – Austria has taken over the highest number of refugees compared to its population – or of the supplies of aid that the "Neighary in Emergency" action has brought about, and not least of IFOR and SFOR, but above all of the diplomatic efforts that Austria continues to make, as is now the case in Kosovo. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that he has only held detailed discussions on this matter today. Another example of the importance of Austria's foreign policy has also been very successful internationally a few months ago, namely the campaign against anti-personnel mines, which – initiated by NGOs – has been launched for the first time worldwide by the Austrian Parliament in a five-party application. This marked a clear sign, which ultimately led to an international convention, which now means that, although the largest and most important countries have not yet joined, a disarmament is taking place and an essential process is in place for the benefit of the civilian population. It should also be noted positively that "nearly in need" has taken up the idea of the Foreign Minister and with a great campaign provides help for the victims of mines, as have the Austrian ministries – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Family – who make a significant contribution with 16 million schilling. It has at all been shown that we in foreign policy thank God in this Parliament very often find consensual solutions. Not only with regard to the anti-personnel mine campaign, but also with regard to anti-atomic policy, there are five-party applications which are very clearly contributing to the fact that anti-atomic awareness is also increasing outside Austria. Again today, Mrs Moser will make a five-party proposal to the Temelin power plant, and I would like to thank her very much for this initiative. I would remind you that when I praised the European Bank's credit for construction and development in 1995, many European colleagues asked me: Mochovce – who or what is it? It is certainly also to be thanked to the Austrian politicians that a corresponding awareness is now beginning across Europe. There has also been a five-party proposal here in this House for a clear condemnation of the Indian nuclear tests or an application for the international Year of Human Rights. Let me say very briefly that Austria, with its foreign culture, makes a significant contribution not only to the Austrian economy, but also to art and science, especially in the Eastern and Central European countries, and therefore, of course, also has a significant part to play in building up democracy there. The Presidency in the European Union will again play a very important role in Austria. On this occasion, I would like to thank the staff, the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the wide range of activities they are carrying out, and for the additional burden they have to take over. But as a family politician, I would also like to thank the family members of our ambassadors – thank God more – who sometimes suffer a lot too. I am thinking, for example, of the children who do not always have problems with frequent school changes, but also of the participation of the spouses, who have yet to be paid off and give no thanks. I am very pleased that the negotiations on social security schemes are going well, and I very much hope that this long-term claim can be met soon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you very much for all the initiatives that help to ensure that the diplomat's profession is also feasible and pleasing to his family, and I am very much in favour of giving their families the necessary support.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3493	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3518	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Again and again it is stressed that foreign policy is the real security policy, and I would like to stress this twice and triple. For us Greens, this security dimension also has a priority in the field of anti-atomic policy. Foreign policy is also an instrument for us to pursue the Austrian objective of giving life to the five-party resolution, the commitment to a nuclear-free central Europe and also the commitment to a nuclear-power-free central Europe. Yesterday we had a debate on the threat to our safety by the Mochovce nuclear power plant, today I would like to point out that the failure of this nuclear power plant must also lead to a better path, a better one, a better one and a better option, namely the option that the Temelin nuclear power plant, which is just before its completion, will not go into operation. In my opinion, it is an essential foreign policy task, perhaps to achieve for the first time, that a change of course be made, that nuclear energy supply be re-polished in a neighbouring country, and that, due to Austrian initiative, Austrian offensive, Austrian concrete action offers, another alternative energy scenario, a safe and sustainable alternative energy scenario can be offered. Foreign policy has to do with the enlargement of the EU to ensure the usual possibilities for peace in Europe. One essential point of this enlargement is that the commitment and also the binding creation of nuclear exodus concepts will be included in the enlargement negotiations. There was a five-party decision on this last July, and we must help this to come to life. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Foreign Minister, to make this mandate of the National Council offensively involved in the negotiations of all five parties. It is about putting on the table concrete exit scenarios, joining them with concrete financing concepts and bringing the applicants to another way in energy policy through these simple and constructive steps. Against this background, it is particularly important that you now use the open window, which opens up not only during the accession negotiations, but above all in connection with Temelin. The Czech Government is a transitional government because there will be new elections. The Czech population is already partly convinced that there are other safe possibilities for energy supply – not least because of the Upper Austrian government, which is a very constructive and offensive way in this regard. Her party colleague, head of state Pühringer, has set up an anti-atomic officer who has information activities on site in Prague and wants to convince the local people that the way away from the nuclear power stations is the better. Please take advantage of the possibility of this open window, which not only offers itself in political terms, but also in technical, financial and organisational terms. Temelin is a billion-dollar project that develops cost-explosively. Temelin has organisational and technical difficulties that cause the operating company itself to reflect. Temelin is a project that is no longer massively driven by the Minister of Economic Affairs, because the financial framework is so uncertain. – In this open window you have to push, through this open door you have to step in! That is why I would like to make another request for reading today, which is borne by all five parties but is due to the initiative of the Greens. We must learn from Mochovce, we must insist that the Temelin nuclear power station does not go into operation and other forms of energy are found. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am sure that all five parties will support this request, but I am not sure how intensive, offensive and constructive it will then be dealt with in the negotiations and how much you will insist at EU level that the EURATOM funds be re-polished. 50 billion schilling of loans are available for the so-called security of nuclear power plants in the East. These 50 billion schillings must be used to ensure energy supply effectively, for alternative scenarios. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Please use your influence, try to ensure that EURATOM becomes a true energy package in the interests of secure energy supply! Do you also agree, Mr Foreign Minister, that the funds in the Federal Chancellor's Office - I asked myself in the Committee, there are funds in the Eastern European Fund - are made available so that an initiative can be put on the table and the feasibility study can be put on the table? A concrete project, a feasible project instead of Temelin is possible. There are preliminary studies which should not remain in the drawers which, with your initiative, must finally adopt a tangible, a viable, an acceptable and a seductive form so that the Czechs change their way so that the Czechs can move on a different path. Also, seek to intensify bilateral negotiations; there are partners in the Czech Republic ready for negotiation. The political situation is quite different from in Slovakia. Use this option! – Bohunice remains, Mochovce threatens us, and Temelin must not come. I hope that this will be possible with the help of our policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3636	Mrs Dr Moser has tabled a motion for a resolution which is sufficiently supported, which has been handed over to the Bureau and which is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3660	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter on External Affairs has today been the occasion for a general debate on Austrian foreign policy, which has, among other things, referred to two areas: security policy and the issue of Easter enlargement. The last speeches also addressed the issue of development policy. I would like to make three brief comments on all three areas. Point one: The old order of things before 1989 was marked by the fact that every conflict in the world was seen in the East-West context and, therefore, the threshold of inhibition to conflict in Europe was at least low because of the risk of escalation. Since 1989, we have been in a situation where every conflict is no longer seen in this context, which sometimes also has the disadvantage that the obstacle to new types of conflict is significantly lower than in the past, but which has also brought the advantage that the international community has more opportunities to join in solidarity in the sense of collective conflict management in crisis regions. In this context, the question arises: How do we imagine the future world order or the future order of things? – We are in a situation of change today. In essence, the United States of America remains as the only regulatory or superpower. This situation is shown in many examples as a condition that will probably not be sustainable in the long term in the event of peaceful conditions. It is noted in various parts of the world that a "Pax Americana" will not really have long-term peacekeeping stock. Therefore, a new kind of balance, not based on military blocks, should develop and should not be based on military strength. In this context, I believe, Europe has a crucial role to play. This is really one of the reasons why I am a very intense follower of a deepened European Union, because I believe that Europe's civilisation ideas should also play a much greater role on a global scale than they do today. However, I believe that some preparatory steps should be taken, especially in the European Union itself, because, unfortunately, the European Union is not yet operational in many areas. I put very great hopes, among other things, in the introduction of the single European currency, the euro, also in political terms, because I believe that, in addition to economic integration, the implementation of this single currency will lead to a significant increase in pressure on political integration. I also believe that the great challenge of enlargement will strengthen the pressure on institutional reform, because it is quite obvious that in the European Union something will only move if major projects are to be implemented. This means that, so to speak, the effort of the level without a major leader does not lead to substantial progress being made. That is why we need these great visions of European integration, so that many of the necessary things can actually be done. Many have expressed concerns about Easter enlargement. These concerns are legitimate because it is not a question of calling Easter into question in principle. I do not think anyone will be able to doubt that the peace policy objective behind the enlargement of the East is indisputable. But it is about the conditions under which this Easter enlargement will go over the stage. Mr Cap pointed out that joining the European Union too quickly could also create disadvantages for individual Eastern European countries. I would like to say the following: The previous alliance commitment of the Eastern European States was not a voluntary and democratic one, but was forced by the presence of the Red Army. If, now, the Eastern European states that have won the freedom choose sovereignly, democratically, to participate in the European integration project, I consider that as a decision quite different from the previous status. These Eastern European states will also not enter the European Union unconditionally. One only needs to read the last interviews of the presumptuous new Hungarian Prime Minister, who said: We have very clear ideas and do not want to join Hungary at the expense and at the expense of Hungary. – Nor do we want Austrians to carry out the Easter enlargement on the back of the Austrian population. That is to say, it is a matter of ensuring, in reasonable negotiations, that enlargement brings a common and meaningful perspective for the people of Eastern Europe and for the people of Western Europe. Finally, there will only be democratic acceptance if this is reflected in the improvement of living conditions in East and West. It will not be possible to sell the Eastern enlargement project under the title of all-sided abandonment and under the title of high-level objectives, which go at the expense of the majority of the population. It is therefore crucial to negotiate these conditions. This will also take a certain time. However, I do not think that we should accept any speculations of time. As last words show, these speculations are extremely arbitrary. It is about defining criteria for the objectives and at the time when these objectives are actually attainable and feasible, enlargement is to go beyond the stage. Of course, Easter enlargement is the great historic challenge facing the European Union. – This enlargement of the East can call into question the success of integration so far, and this enlargement of the East is a good one, and the European Union's model of peace, which has been suitable for Western Europe for several decades, can also be extended to the east of this continent. This must be our common objective, because Austria, as a country in the heart of Europe, cannot define its security unilaterally and at the edge of Europe, but only in the heart of a pan-European peace, security and stability zone. Against this background, I believe that the project of Easter enlargement must also be taken politically by the Austrian side and carried along.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3720	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3741	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Unfortunately, I was unable to participate in the information meeting with the South Tyrol Government and the representatives of South Tyrol, which took place recently. Nevertheless, or perhaps precisely because of this, I would like to comment on this issue. Federal Minister! They have said that the role of Austrian foreign policy has changed, as a result of the European opening and entry of Austria as a whole. This is true of God, thanks also for the area of South Tyrol policy. I believe that we have been able to report on positive progress for a long time. There is a distinctly positive climate in the relationship between the South Tyroleans and Italy, but progress has also been made with regard to the rights of the people there. However, this is not only due to the European opening up, but I believe that the current government in Italy has also contributed a lot to this positive mood lately. As an example, I would like to point out that on 4 May the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. November last year for the first time in South Tyrol, in Bolzano, did not want to lay a wreath on the victory monument. This wreath lay down before the victory monument in Bolzano always meant a provocation of the German-speaking population in South Tyrol. This has always been associated with very many emotions. And those who, like me, have been there with the South Tyrolean shooters a few years ago and have been spit by Italian fanatic fascists who know what it means when such provocations are for the first time abandoned. I think that is an expression of a climate of understanding and of the willingness to talk, which is really positive. Of course, some of the South Tyrol activists of the 1960s also contributed to this. This is also very positive, even if you have to note that there are still some activists waiting for their grace. These graces must be demanded by us, by the Austrian security force. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Schengen Agreement entered into force is of particular importance to Tyrol. If you know that the Brenner border is now free of border formalities and there is a transit from the Tyroleans to Tyrol, without having to face border authorities, then you have to say that this is once visually a great relief or a correct step in the right direction. It should not be forgotten, however, that even if there are no borders and there are no border formalities to be done, there is still an unfair limit on the burner. And it is so long an unlawful limit as long as the South Tyrolean population refuses to decide on their nationality in the form of a self-determination – apart from the result that such self-determination or vote would bring. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is crucial to give this right to the South Tyroleans. We must ensure that there are no forces that counteract the peace that has come in. The Alleanza Nazionale has just recently done this and the hard-fought minority rights of the South Tyrolean population have once again stepped with feet. The representatives of the Alleanza Nazionale are not willing to accept these rights for so long as they require a new autonomy statute for Italians in South Tyrol. I am already aware, Minister of State, that there is virtually no chance of implementation of the second statute of autonomy being established internationally and, above all, the consent and consent of Austria to amend this statute of autonomy. But only the provocations should keep us alert. We should ensure that such things do not receive nourishment from the house and above all that there is no hope of implementation of those Italians who do not recognize this autonomy of the South Tyroleans. The second status of autonomy would be to say that the question of blank checks has not yet been settled in some areas. The main areas concerned are three: For one thing, it is about the competences in the field of the production and distribution of electrical energy in South Tyrol. Secondly, it is about the return of a number of real estates, which are now in federal possession and have previously been in state ownership. Thirdly, public service issues remain open. – I believe that these things will be done, and we should only be careful to ensure that the basics of the package are actually fulfilled. The most important point, which is also to be decided politically, is the question of toponomastics or local names in South Tyrol. This is therefore a political question, because this toponomastic, this name for the place, was created in the time of fascism. In other words, this legislation still bears the mark of fascist violence and is therefore already connected with injustice. This injustice must be lifted politically, even if it is possible to derive something else from the Treaty of Versailles, namely bilingualism. I don't think it's time to make radical demands. That is not in our sense either, and no one will, but the radical insistence of Italy on this question is certainly not the right way either. Federal Minister! We should continue to be aware of our role in protecting our powers of defence and, above all, try to bring about a political solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3814	Mr Deputies will come to terms with Mr Dr. König. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3836	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Eastern enlargement is the historic opportunity to overcome the division of Europe. And it is also an opportunity for Austria to return from the border position to the middle of Europe. The fact that our small and medium-sized enterprises were able to benefit from this opportunity is evidenced by a report by the Austrian Institute for International Economic Comparison, according to which 40 000 new jobs in Austria have been achieved net in the period since the opening of the East. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This must be recognized simply by talking about the difficulties. Mr Haider spoke only of the difficulties today and pointed out the danger posed by the different wages and social and environmental standards in the new Member States vis-à-vis the EU. [[Abg. Böhacker: Rightfully!]] – Yes, rightfully! However, he has added the accusation to the Foreign Minister and to the government that they "would negligently overlook this". And that's wrong. I can speak from a speech by Mr Vice-Chancellor on 29 February. Citing January 1998 at the Eastern Region Conference in Graz, where he said literally: However, the problems and risks posed by the integration of our neighbouring countries into the EU must not be underestimated either. Then he listed them, they were exactly the same. But now the difference is: Mr Haider has not offered a solution. He just says no to the EU, no to the euro, no to Easter enlargement. Mr Spindelegger as our foreign-political spokesperson has pointed out that it is important to see how and when this enlargement takes place. To the how and when there are models. It will be crucial for the preparation phase to be used in accordance with the pre-accession phase, which is to be used – this is the crucial point – to ensure that wage differences, economic differences and social and environmental standards are increased so that the dock maneuver can be implemented without major shocks both in the new Member States and in the EU. [[Abg. Böhacker: How would you do that, and how do you do that?]] In this dock process, the INTERREG programme can, of course, help us in this preparation process. I would like to say the following: It is quite clear that the Central and Eastern European States cannot compare themselves with the EFTA countries of the last enlargement. They can compare themselves with Portugal and Spain, i.e. countries that are economically far behind the other EU Member States at the time. What time was provided for Portugal and Spain, and what has actually been used, including the ratification process? – Eight years and up to ten years of transition in sensitive areas such as agriculture, the right of establishment and freedom to provide services. This means, of course, that what was necessary for Portugal and Spain will also be necessary for our neighbours in the East, who have not had a market economy in Portugal and in Spain, although backward, but still existing. This also gives rise to the importance of assistance at the preparatory stage so that it can achieve this objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only the acquis communautaire, i.e. the law of the EU, but also the functioning of institutions and accordingly trained people who can carry out this task. Training also has a major role to play in Austria and the EU. Another thing: We must remember that this training also means that one has to change spiritually, because in the 50 years of Communism there has been quite a different way of thinking, and it is not quite easy for some to carry out this necessary transformation process. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will carefully address the objectives of Agenda 2000, namely a gradual reform aimed at quality, rural areas and the environmental function of agriculture, as well as a re-transition and gradual transformation of regional support. I believe it is right for the EU to maintain the top 1.27 percent of GDP for this period of the preparatory phase. With this amount and growth from the gross domestic product, we will undoubtedly be able to use the necessary resources to prepare our neighbouring countries for a positive, as smooth as possible and thus successful integration into the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3903	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e3925	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Both the Foreign Minister and several speakers in this debate have dealt with security policy in a very intense and factual way. I hope that I will not regret Mr Cap's statement. I can fully agree with his remarks, from the beginning to the end. That is exactly what we, I believe, are missing in the internal debate in Austria, namely that all the options – in fact all the options – in the security policy are at least listed and discussed offensively, all the advantages and disadvantages of the respective options are discussed and listed openly and then finally comes to make decisions. Because it's also sick of it. The Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence said yesterday that they had been thinking for eight years. – But, in fact, today we are still at the stage of the discussion that we started in 1990, namely that we are still considering what problems there might be in the future, what the status of neutrality is and how NATO will develop. In fact, we did not go much further in this debate, precisely because there was a taboo in these eight years. Around us, ladies and gentlemen, everything moves and is all in the river. There is a dynamic, there is discussion, there decisions are made in the right direction. And here in Austria we are discussing whether we should say goodbye to lovable mechanisms, what disadvantages this might bring or whether we should not choose to go once with all the rights and obligations in common structures. I hear that it is hoped that something will develop, for example, within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. Mr. Kummerer! You, too, said yesterday that the sense of neutrality still exists. But I'm waiting for the answer, where this sense is. I just always hear: One should not give up neutrality because it still has meaning!, but one forgets to say what sense a serious international neutrality can still have in today's environment. In fact, neutrality is nothing more than the hope that the other states will accept the signal that they will not interfere in any conflict and will ultimately also be able to get us into no conflict. Where is there room for such international neutrality today? – One must be honest and consider neutrality not to be a self-interest or to use it for any discussion point or for any election struggle, but as what it is, a means of international law, which should ensure the security of our country. Secondly, If we hope that some new withdrawn structures will develop within the framework of the common foreign policy or within the framework of the European Union, then I can only invite everyone to deal with international processes. We have just been to the Western European Union for a few days and to the NATO Assembly. There has even been an attempt in the Western European Union to decouple at least the memberships, so it should not be the case in the future that a member of the Western European Union must also be EU member and NATO member at the same time. This motion has been rejected, ladies and gentlemen. The Secretary-General of the Western European Union has said that the WEU will be responsible for crisis management and crisis management in the future. NATO is taking over the defence of Europe – also in the future. If we pursue these international things, then it must be clear that NATO will continue to be the only organization that can give concrete security guarantees and that there will be development processes. All the other European structures are interesting, and it is certainly the question of whether one should be involved, whether one should cooperate, but these are things that are still in far distance. As we are involved here, we have seen at the Parliamentary Assembly of the NATO States and the associated states. We have hoped – there was an invitation to this Assembly, it is a purely parliamentary assembly that has nothing to do with the Pact, the NATO Alliance – that we will at least have the association status. It was President Fischer alone who prevented this House's decision. We went there and did not know what status we had. It was a blamage, not only for this Parliament, but also for the whole of Austria, that the Austrians could not decide to raise our status at least on those who have Russia, Bulgaria, Romania and even Albania. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We've seen it: We were sitting in the last row and could not speak because we didn't even have a microphone. In front of us, Albanians and people from Kosovo discussed this – together with the Russians, the Americans, the Germans and the French – as in the future European security policy can also be further developed by parliamentarians and how the dynamics is. All of these are things, ladies and gentlemen, that we should know when we are discussing security policy in Austria like in a glass cage, namely that we are not sitting under the cheese bell, but that there is a strong dynamic around us, that there are integrations in security policy that have been and would have been unthinkable a few years ago, and that we in Parliament, in Austria, in the government, we are having a discussion that no one understands in Europe anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, including the government bank! I hope that you will finally accept our offer and allow, together with all the political groups that are committed to an active security policy, the necessary discussion without taboos, as Mr Cap has requested, and then, as soon as possible, this year, so that this issue will not be again a matter of election, to make the necessary decisions so that Austria can not only guarantee security for itself through the alliance, but can also participate in the integration process that is currently taking place around us. In this respect, I would also like to remind you that there have been a number of appropriate requests in this direction. They only needed to agree to these requests. Therefore, in order to give you the opportunity to make a clear commitment to an offensive security policy, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4021	The motion for a resolution just read has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Jäger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4045	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke very clear and open words today, and he made very clear statements and made a commitment to development policy. I thank him for that. He also stressed the importance of solidarity work. He has justified the fact that we Austrians have also experienced solidarity in our history. I would add, above all, because, ultimately, every international conflict has an impact on Europe and also on Austria, especially migration and refugee movements. We all know that in Austria too we were affected by the Yugoslavia conflict. Today, it is an essential objective of European security policy to avoid conflicts. The great challenge of our century is not to win wars, but to prevent them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I must say that I am very concerned about developments in Kosovo, as we are currently being informed about the media. I think, yes, I hope, that we have learned a lot from the Yugoslavia conflict and that all measures will be taken by Europe, by international organisations and the OSCE in order to prevent further bloodshed. I think this is important, above all, for the following reason: This year we have celebrated "50 years of the UN Declaration of Human Rights", and I believe that precisely such developments as we have seen in recent years in Eastern Europe are very sad for the year 2000. Our entire commitment must go in this direction in order to prevent further conflicts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the topic of development policy: It has changed a lot in Austria since accession to the EU, and we are also involved in a number of EU projects. But now we still have a 1974 development aid law. This is the legal basis for our development cooperation. I believe that we have not really grown the new challenges with this law, and we therefore think it useful to have a general debate on the objective and instruments of Austrian development policy under these new and changed conditions in Europe. This discussion is to be conducted by Parliament, non-governmental organisations and also by the Foreign Office, with the aim of creating a new law on development aid, with new status and with new priorities, as we simply need for future work in a united Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to address another point. Mr Haider has already asked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs why Austria has been providing funds for a referendum in Western Sahara for three years. He has also tried today to take out a few points from this really very extensive programme of Austrian development cooperation and then make fun of it. I am opposed to this procedure because I know that very good, very professional work is being done by the Foreign Office in the field of development cooperation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address this very point, which Mr Haider has criticized here, namely the referendum in Western Sahara. I think this is a very important thing, it will take place this December. It would mean ending the Western Sahara conflict, that is, a conflict between Morocco and the Polisario, the political representation of Western Sahara. [[Abg. Young: How do you have the information that this is going to happen this year?]] It is therefore important because this is, in addition to West Timor, the last direct conflict that is directly linked to decolonization. After the Spanish left the Western Sahara, Morocco occupied the Western Sahara with the help of Mauritania. – I would like to answer the question: It is true that all preparations have been made for the UN to support this referendum, but there are problems at present. I think we should use all our diplomatic possibilities to actually carry out this referendum, because it is a human tragedy that for more than 20 years in the most unreal area of Sahara, 150 000 people have to live in tent cities, in a refugee situation. Above all, it is the women, the children and the old people who are affected by this situation. During the Austrian Presidency in the EU, this referendum is being held, and I believe that it must also be in all our interest to have a positive outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4107	Mr Schwarzböck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4128	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party, by Mr Scheibner, has again tabled a motion for a resolution on the negotiations with NATO on Austria's accession. The positions are known. My group, the Austrian People's Party, took part in the debate on 15 November. A resolution on this issue was tabled here in the House on April. It is clear that there are different positions in the government. We respect these as democrats, and it is quite clear, Mr Scheibner, that the overwhelming majority of the Austrian population would not have any interest in breaking a coalition in these different opinions in the government a few weeks before the Austrian Presidency and one and a half years before the national elections. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will, therefore, certainly agree with you, continue the discussion in a reasonable way, and in view of the international development of this situation, the SPÖ is likely to lead to a majority shift from the determining parts of the rejection to a majority of the advocates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will certainly be able to pursue a good development for Austria and contribute to Europe's security. Ladies and gentlemen! After the negotiations for Agenda 2000 in the 1999 budget year, which we are discussing today, there will certainly be a special focus on enlargement negotiations. In March there was the start of the first Foreign Ministers Conference, and there are many different points of view too. There are extremes that are associated with the fact that the enlargement process would be far too fast. You and your partyobmann often talk about formal enlargement steps already in 2001 or 2002. On the other hand, there are time speculations which provide for a much longer period of time. I personally believe that both behaviours do not serve the cause. Most of the Austrians know that this enlargement process is logical and in the interest of our country. The forecasts at which the first enlargement steps will take place with candidate countries are currently pure speculation, because much more can be used to solve the problem if we deal with the conditions of the successful enlargement process. There are three areas: in addition to the time, the possible mechanisms and the funding bases, which are also of particular importance. At the time and on the mechanisms, it should be noted that the 15 Member States of the European Union have set certain clear principles for the candidate countries. One of these principles for possible accession is that the acquis communautaire must be implemented in the applicant countries before accession. If you are interested in this development, you can see in the countries different conditions and difficulties and main problems for the implementation of the acquis communautaire. Our neighbouring country Hungary, a very hopeful candidate, has had elections last weekend, and we know that, for example, the mobility of land transport and foreign land ownership is a very sensitive issue of Hungarian domestic policy. Anyone who thinks that he is able to look at the party political, from an ideological point of view, is approaching this question very superficially. – If you deal with this question, you know that Hungary itself will still need time to solve these questions. If the Polish Foreign Minister recently said that before 2005, it could be difficult for Poland itself to formally implement accession, then we should abandon these speculations by the time and discuss much more about the mechanisms, gradual accession and the funding bases. There are also enough points of discussion, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian Federal Government has fully supported the European Commission and the Council in providing 0.11 percent of GDP to finance the preparation for accession in the next few years. It's being criticized someplace, that would be too much. If you "return" the high demands of this important historical task for Europe into small communities to the families, then I would like to say that 0.11 percent of GDP is something we will demand. But if we can't do that, if that's unacceptable, then we should also have the courage not to constantly talk about good neighborhood, because investing 0.11 percent for such an important task is probably the necessary contribution to developing good neighborhood and taking into account a basic principle that connects us – I believe – to the enlargement goals. We must succeed in shaping this enlargement in such a way that both sides can gain benefits, gain prosperity on both sides, create more security on both sides of Europe, and then, if accession has been achieved, we can assume that Europe as a whole has taken an important step towards asserting its position in the world and perhaps also contributing to a very positive development of the global policy and economy as a whole. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! This is relatively easy to speak of, but there are some fears and stimulates reflections on which changes cannot be accelerated and which personal challenge is associated with it. I personally believe that we have a very good approach to realistically appreciating how we can cope with this problem. The development of our country after the Second World War has shown that, in the shortest time, when the direction is right, if there is agreement, when burdens are shared in solidarity, when partnership is worked – both internally and in the large community on the outside – can be realized quite impossibility. The success story of Austria, the wonder of Austria, could be an example of how, in good neighbourly solidarity and partnership, Europe can basically develop very positively. Today, Dr. Haider, as the first speaker, has doubted that it could be possible to politically enforce the Austrian approach to border support. Mr Vice-Kanzler pointed out clearly what can be done with the Interreg instrument, if we make it a reasonable political conclusion, even in the sensitive border regions of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now foreseeable that the accession of our eastern neighbours will certainly not be possible in a step that the Austrians, the Swedishs or the Finns have taken. It is therefore likely that the opening of passenger traffic will be more cautious than the opening of trade in goods. Only, of course, can this time span not be infinite, but it must be in a certain proportion. Because if goods traffic is liberalized many times earlier than passenger transport, then of course there can be dramatic relocations, especially to the immediate border regions of our neighbouring countries. We can, of course, do this with very targeted Interreg funding programmes in the preparation period of enlargement and achieve a reasonable balance, so that we can complete this in appropriate time periods – goods and passenger transport – in appropriate reasonable time. For the speculations of 2001 in full entry or in 30 years only freedom for passenger transport are basically nothing but to collect small political money or to fogg an important challenge for Austria and Europe. I am convinced that there are much better opportunities to make our contribution, both in the interests of the Austrian population and of European development, to this project which is so important for this continent and the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4223	Mrs Konrad came to speak. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4244	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to put in the centre of my remarks foreign culture policy, which the Foreign Ministry itself calls one of the most important components of our foreign policy, so to speak, as the third pillar, and for which, however, there is no significant increase in the appropriations for 1999. Although the budget is increased by 2 million schillings, which I think is urgently necessary, the effort for events remains the same as for 1998, which unfortunately means by 4 million schillings less than last year. From my point of view, the cultural institutions are fundamental elements of Austrian foreign culture policy. I therefore consider it important that they be expanded – developed as places of cultural encounter, as hubs for art and science. Culture and cultural exchange need own spaces. It is certainly too little to carry out these tasks in the respective message. Cultural institutions offer space as explicit cultural spaces for current developments, for intercultural communication, and this should also be done more outside Europe from the point of view of my group. There is currently no one Austrian cultural institution throughout the African continent, none in Latin America, none in the Far East, none in Australia, none in Warsaw. I mean north of this latitude. I have not looked at exactly what is still at the same latitude, but I mean: none in the former Soviet countries, Scandinavia and so on. Foreign cultural policy also requires that the world not only consists of Europe, and therefore it is urgently necessary to invest in cultural exchanges with non-European countries. Our interest in international cooperation must not be limited to international trade. If we are really interested in internationalism and openness, this interest must include cultural exchange. Since foreign cultural policy is more than a few appearances of the Vienna Philharmonic, the State Opera or the Vienna Boy Boys, the cultural institutions have a lot more mission than the occasional presentation of glamorous highlights. They have to show and convey the continuity and diversity of the artistic and cultural developments of Austria. Even if it is repeatedly criticized that the administration of foreign cultural policy is costing relatively high, I consider the restriction or even the abandonment of cultural institutions to be the wrong solution. In this context, I would like to refer briefly to the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: This is a Fata Morgana!]] It is urgently necessary to start construction now. After the spectacular architectural competition for the new building of the cultural institute, in which 226 architects have participated, and after there is already an international exhibition in which 50 of the submitted models are shown, the tendering procedures are still not finished. They will, as the Foreign Minister has told us in the Committee, be ready and under way soon. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: No Fata Morgana!]] We rely on it and hope that it will be soon. On the verge: Also the staff of the cultural institute in New York is in his aside quarters, in which he is now almost three years old, obviously a little disembarked and invites via the Internet for example to visit the renowned Austrian library with the words: Come and see us. We still have our library, even though some of it is in boxes. The Austrian Cultural Institute in New York has been in place for 35 years. It has always been and is still a traditional and proven state of the Austrian foreign culture policy. The current non-treatment is soon equivalent to an amputation, and this is damaging to Austria's reputation. It cannot be suspected of those who interpret this non-treatment – I would like to say: rightly – as a disinterest. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Socialist Group are committed to a foreign cultural policy which is a serious and serious part of foreign policy. Money and financial resources, which flow into a meaningful foreign culture policy, are – that is our opinion – well arranged in the sense of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4295	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic is in conversation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, are you using your speech now or not?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4328	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Two brief preliminary remarks, then my main topic. For the preliminary remarks: My colleague Gabriela Moser has already given a detailed opinion on the importance of foreign policy in environmental terms as regards the averting of dangers to Austria. I am pleased about the five-party proposal on Temelin, but add that – this is very important to me, Mrs State Secretary! – that, in particular, we Austrians should not be perceived as those who, with the pointing finger, come to the reform states with warning and warning. We should be their allies in the EU enlargement negotiations, because our needs and needs will also be understood by them. I therefore feel that it is urgently necessary, in the case of nuclear power plants in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic, not to give leading appeals to Slovakia and the Czech Republic, but to show the economic background to the continuation of this life-threatening insanity. However, these backgrounds are not located in the countries addressed, but in Germany and France, in large corporations such as Siemens or Framatome. We should also make it quite clear to powerful states such as Germany and France that we in Austria do not understand that if they continue to operate billions of these nuclear companies in the reform states – and thus, although they could no longer exist at all in the market economy, they are artificially alive. This is negligent and irresponsible. Take action against it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the second point, Mrs. Konrad has just given me the tag. I would just like to point out briefly here to you that we too will not forget it in the field of foreign cultural policy. As you have specifically referred to the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York, I would like to say that I support you in your efforts to speed up the construction project, since I think it is equally important. As far as your statements on the Third World countries, the non-European and non-American countries, are concerned, you have my 100% support. But another point we will also keep getting to the tapet again and again. Still unexplained is the intervention at the time, the involvement of the head of the cultural institute, Dr. Waldner, in the presidential elections. We do not think that this has been done properly in terms of budgetary rights. I do not mean, especially in times like this, in times of political responsibility. The law does not provide for a staff loan for a special tariff with no remuneration of all costs. This is illegal and has to be clarified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third point concerns the issue, which is why I have actually spoken. They know that in terms of peacekeeping, we are firmly on the ground of Austrian neutrality. We hold Austria's neutrality in conjunction with a revitalising active neutrality policy for a very modern instrument to resolve the crisis. In this respect, I also see positive approaches to the foreign policy of the Federal Government, including the Federal Minister. For example, I found the engagement in Tibet to be very good. Federal Minister Schüssel was the first foreign minister to have succeeded in clarifying the survival of Pan-chen Lama much more than the foreign politicians who had tried to do so before. In other areas I still see great need for action, for example with regard to Kosova, the Western Sahara and, above all, Kurdistan. I mean, Austria needs neutrality to do that. Only a state which is credible in all military pacts can act as a mediator on all sides. Human rights services – wherever they are threatened – are considered to be acceptable to conflict parties. I believe that neutrality – the absolute rejection of armed conflicts and Austrian participation in them – is the basic prerequisite for having moral law and legitimacy to interfere in conflicts and to make it clear again and again that human rights are never an internal matter. Human rights are a matter for all states and, above all, neutral intermediaries. We have human rights whenever they are threatened to take the party! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular, I am very persistent on this point. For it cannot be that an economic calculation prevents us from acting in the service of human rights. I have often criticised the Socialist Group for not being able to speak in Tibet. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Think about this line! She won't be kept up like that. In the case of the President-in-Office Dr. Klestil, we will not tire out and will not stop asking the question even after a beating election: Can we be credible about Turkey's human rights in the Kurds' role in the challenge of human rights? We will therefore once again submit our request to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify political responsibility in connection with the escape of the Kurds in 1989. I am particularly interested today in the following point: In the context of political responsibility, in particular, the attitude of the Freedom Party is aroused in these days, and their behaviour is of particular interest to me today, when the Clubobmann and the executive clubman seem to have to deal with more important agendas. I am also interested in this request today. It would be nice if the government parties could reconsider their previous line in this regard. I think it would be a contribution towards political openness, which could restore a great deal of what has now been violated in this country by political culture. This could also enable policy rehabilitation as such. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I'm interested Their voting at the end of the agenda. I would like to inform you – you will probably hear from me more often – of a few quotations and then ask you what the political responsibility for you is in the light of these statements by Mr Stadler. ==References====External links== April 1997: The Federal President is accused of massive errors during his duties as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But you're pretending that this isn't an issue for the public! It also says: You do not care what political groups in this House say about reports of serious media about these Federal Presidents in his time as Secretary-General. ==References====External links== May 1998: Ladies and gentlemen! The scenario was clear. First of all, one wanted to adapt the Federal President with this Ghassemlou murder, so to speak, to salt him a re-candid. - Quote. Thus, in May 1997, there was a vehement commitment by the liberals to clarify political responsibility. In contrast, in April 1998, there were polemic words against those who still demand this clarification of political responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. They will be discussing what You understand it under political responsibility, you certainly don't get around. Your current voting attitude on this request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry will, once you have voted differently, also interest the public. That is why I address my really serious appeal to the coalition parties: Give the way, especially if you are convinced that the conduct of the top government bodies was correct in this matter, for such an investigation! With regard to the political responsibility of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I can only conclude with the comments of my club colleague, Andreas Wablan; he said: Tell me who you choose, and I'll tell you what your speech looks like! I would ask the representatives of Austrian foreign policy not to be guided by such ideas on political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4431	There is also a speech by Dr Höchtl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4452	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. In my opinion, human rights policy is also a policy of noticing. I see it so that wherever human rights violations occur, we will undoubtedly have to vote as elected Members to protest against them. Today, among other things, the question of the Sudeten Germans has been raised. And I would like to make a brief statement on this point. In 1945, 3.5 million Sudeten Germans were expelled and 241,000 killed. That is and was already a scandal and from my point of view – because it has not been worked out – is still to be described as scandal! [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the SPÖ Members.]] The legal basis for this expulsion, for the killing, torture and expropriation were the Beneš decrees. I say here that, in my opinion, the Beneš decrees were already wrong at the time; and they will remain wrong as long as they exist! That is why I believe that we should seek all possibilities for cooperation and encourage discussions, thus supporting people like President Havel in their position. I quote what Havel said: The expulsion of millions of people from purely national viewpoints and the principles of collective debt is an immoral act. Whoever approves of them also approves the expulsion of the Jews, the Tatars, the Lithuanians and other peoples from house and court. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let's try wherever we can to force the partnership with people like Havel! I believe that after decades of "lordship of lies" - that is how Havel referred to the Czechoslovak regime - the end of silence must also come over this scandal and the Beneš decrees must be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4494	There is no more word on this point. This debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group III of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapter 20 of the Federal Estimate in 1100 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – The Advisory Group III has been adopted by a majority. Two motions for resolutions have been tabled. I would like to make the proposal within the meaning of § 55 para. The vote on these motions for resolutions will be taken at once. Does anyone object? - That's not the case. Firstly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moser, Mr Josef Cap, Mr Maria Rauch-Kallat, Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzerund Mag. Thomas Barmüller on the action programme "Temelin". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. The motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 123.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the opening of negotiations with NATO on Austria's accession to NATO. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture and forestry (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4583	We now come to the Advisory Group VIII, Agriculture and Forestry. The Special Rapporteur waived the oral reporting. We are starting the debate with an opinion by Mrs Aumayr. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4610	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Federal Minister Molterer, believe me, I would have liked to thank you once! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You warned him!]] I would really have liked to thank you for an agricultural policy and a budget that will ensure a decent income for farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't believe that!]] It's hard for me to praise you, Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A dangerous threat!]] I'm going to figure out why I'm having a hard time. I would have liked to thank you for a policy that could finally secure the farm jobs. But this budget, Mr Federal Minister – a budget is now the policy put into figures – does not give any praise at all, quite the contrary: If the total expenditure of 1995 and 1999 is related to each other, it can be shown that a fall in terms of volume and writing is 30 percent. In 1995, the agricultural budget was 33 billion schilling, with 23 billion schilling in 1999. In four years 10 billion and thus 30 percent less – this is truly a "ripe" achievement, Mr. Federal Minister! The figures show that this federal government – and above all also the EIA – has long since not been the case with the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 23 billion schilling for agriculture and forestry, which is a lot of money at first sight – and that is true too – but in relation to the total budget, the share is more than modest. At a total budget volume of 767 billion Schilling, it is only 3% ready for farmers, and the share is constantly falling. I remember the budget speech of Minister of Finance Edlinger on 23. March here at the Hohenhaus. The Minister of Finance has not mentioned agriculture and rural families with any word, with no syllables. Federal Minister! They do not want to, or are obviously not allowed to fulfill the promises given to the farmers. You are not able to at last exploit the national scope. In the Treaty of Europe, you assured farmers the adjustment of VAT. Federal Minister! Farmers lose 1.7 billion schilling annually because of their breach of the contract. Do you know what that means to the farmers? – 1.7 billion shilling They have been leaving farmers every year since 1995 just because you want to be pleasing to the socialist coalition partner. There's no other reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "The ÖVP always at the service of the Socialists", according to this motto, you operate agricultural policy. Federal Minister! Where do the discounted resources stay? – Austrian agriculture pays the highest diesel price in the EU. How can our farmers compete with their competitors? That is why we call for the reintroduction of the diesel oil refund – which was abolished in 1992 – as did Mr Auer, colleague friend, colleague Schwarzenberger or colleague Schwarzböck – to do on the media – see article in the "AIZ". They also call for the reintroduction of diesel oil reimbursement. Today you have the opportunity to decide both the promised, contractually guaranteed VAT adjustment and the diesel oil refund with us liberals. If you reject these requests again, you prove that you only "plant" the farmers more, and you commit another break! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The liberals therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You save the farmers to death, while on the other hand – this is really very interesting – you are very generously dealing with yourself. The worse your agricultural policy is, Mr Federal Minister, the more jobs You destroy, the more money you spend on your own advertising. This has not even been done by your predecessor, the "fine-cost" minister and current Commissioner Fischler. You have no obstacles at all to apply for yourself as a Minister of Agriculture and your policy with taxpayers – and I say these are farmers' money. Such huge amounts will not be issued by any Minister for Self Propaganda. The less for the farmers, the more for the minister! Federal Minister! It's not 1 million schilling annually for advertising for you personally, for your ministry or for your policy, there are not 2 million a year, even not just 3, 4 or 5 million, no: Say and write 20 million schillings in 1997 you have approved yourself for self-propaganda from the Ministry of Agriculture! [[Abg. Meisinger: Incredible!]] Minister! This is indescribable: 20 million schilling for a Minister of Agriculture so that he can apply for himself and his policy – it has never been in this Republic at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't like information!]] Only 1.8 million Schillings go on advertising in "NEWS"! You know, of course, why the propaganda machine is running accordingly! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: "Let blood die" is your foreign exchange!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Every farmer subscribes!]] In "NEWS" you have to advertise agriculture! [[Abg. Wabl: Consumers!]] Federal Minister! They put the bio- and self-marketing plants on the hat like a spring, and you are hiding that through completely exaggerated hygiene regulations, a new industrial order is forcing exactly those farms into the knees you have previously made hope and with which you now adorn yourself. The food companies, the food industry is working everywhere, Minister of State! She wants to get rid of the annoying competition of self-marketing farmers. You have best relations with the food industry, you are also extremely generous in this respect. I would just like to remind you how many billions of schilling went to the food industry in 1995 alone in the form of storage charges for the agricultural processing industry. Federal Minister! They have delivered the farmers to a wild AMA bureaucrat. This is not only the opinion of the liberals, but now also the ÖVP farmers have woken up! I would like to remind you of the last article in the journal "Top Agro-Agriculture", in which farmers are making mobilization against the AMA. It says – I quote – that: We reached the border of loadability, it brought Hans Fuchs, local farmer from Grödig in Salzburg, recently to the point at a joint assembly of farmers from Grödig and Anif. The displeasure of farmers was directed against their view of absurd bureaucracy and the overrun sanctions of the AMA. To make their concerns clear, Fuchs and Michael Friesacher, a local farmer from Anif, had invited a representative of the AMA with Alois Rohrmoser. - Quote. You have made demands on you, Minister of State! Not the liberals are those who constantly gossip about the AMA or its policies, but their own local party owners. Your own ÖVP-Mandatare outside the communities already make mobile! [[Abg. Schwarzböck: This is your cousin!]] It only needs a little longer, but at some point even the ÖVP will wake up. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: Your cousin!]] So what? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You don't even know your own relationship!]] Federal Minister! You will certainly understand that a budget which means a 30 per cent reduction within four years and which in 1999 will probably mean a 4 per cent income reduction for farmers will not be able to agree with absolute certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4870	The motion for a resolution, which Mrs Aumayr has read, is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e4894	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The crocodiles that Mrs Aumayr has just shed before were not meant to be very honest. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] This becomes clear to us when we take the "trend" of October 1997, which was asked, among other things, by Jörg Haider: Around 60 percent of EU subsidies are spent on agriculture. Do you consider this division to be modern and fair to small and medium-sized enterprises?– Answer Guide Haider: The FPÖ is basically against subsidies and in return for lower taxes. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr President! You heard this, "Führer Haider"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I have to say that agriculture would have very little help with lower taxes. Or: Quote from the "Press Hour" of the 5th century. February 1995, in which Dr. Haider was asked by Dr. Anneliese Rohner, and his answer was: Secondly, we would demand that the current subsidies be removed by 50 per cent. No one hurts, not even agriculture. – Literally quote from the leader Haider. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: "Führer Haider"?- Oh, my God!]] So far, we have had the experience that what Haider said will be enforced, and not what Members of the Liberals have said. In the future, he will even demand a ponal if they say something different than it announces to their leader. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But now it's up to you. Our objective is to preserve a land-based agricultural and forestry industry. We are concerned with a functional rural area and with the permanent safeguarding of the multifunctional tasks of farmed family farms. Our goal is to produce high-quality food and raw materials. Our objective is to ensure the basis of life, but our objective is also to preserve and shape the cultural and recreational landscape, to protect against natural violence, to maintain the settlement and to safeguard rural and non-agricultural jobs in rural areas. The main basis for safeguarding agricultural income must continue to be the production of high-quality agricultural products. This production is market-oriented and the productivity and competitiveness of agriculture and forestry must be improved, taking into account sustainable environmental protection. This is a very ambitious programme, which also requires appropriate budget resources. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The basis for the 1999 budget is the so-called 40 billion package agreed with the countries in the context of a financial compensation for the years 1999 to 2002. On the basis of this, farmers can continue to expect the compensation and payment of benefits promised to them. If Mrs Aumayr compares the 1995 budget with the 1999 budget, she seems to have overlooked that there are degressive payments in connection with EU accession, which were limited from the outset to four years and amounted to 7.2 billion schilling in 1995. At that time, the liberals said that after four years, the promotions would all end. . We can now prove that these statements are not true. They also said that in three years there will no longer be any miners in Austria. . We have a lower structural change in the mining industry than we had in this area before joining the EU. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The total amount of the 1999 agricultural budget, including the allocations, has, of course, either not been discovered or deliberately overlooked by Members Aumayr – 24.7 billion schilling. However, this sum includes 12 billion schillings, which the EU will refund. That is to say, the net expenditure from federal funds for agriculture is 1.2 percent of the total budget, and that is what farmers have truly earned for their services! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If previous criticism has been made in the foreign policy debate by Mrs Gredler that EU support is too high for farmers, it must already be written in the main book that agriculture is the only area that is really commonplace. The EU does not finance social areas, defence and security, nor does it finance education, but agriculture. It is therefore fair that the individual budgets of the 15 EU countries should be combined with the EU budget and then allocated. I think that this amount is certainly a necessary issue for European food security, for the conservation of the cultural landscape, for the settlement of mountain areas, and it is also very manageable by the European population. Around 70 percent of all Austrian farmers – and here we really reach Europe’s peak – are European champions, and this 70 percent includes 90 percent of the agricultural area. That is, 90 percent of the agricultural production area in Austria is involved in the environmental programme, and we also receive 30 percent of the total environmental funding the EU has budgeted for all 15 countries. On this point, the sensitivity of the Austrian farmers to environmental problems is made clear, but our farmers are also a certain sustainability in the main book. The proportion of compensation to farmers for this environmental programme is very high: Around 30 percent or almost one third of the total direct payments to farmers are financed by the environmental programme, but this requires compensation. It provides the farmers with benefits and these benefits will be reimbursed through this environmental programme. These are not, as falsely presented, subsidies or support to farmers, but there is benefit and consideration. That is why the five-year contract that has to be observed. The second most important area is the market organisation payments, the 100% premiums paid by the EU, which from national budgets are only supplemented by extensification premiums and the like. As a result, approximately 15 percent of compensation payments are made, including the maintenance companies in the mountain area and the investment promotion. The following must also be said: According to the Green Report, in 1996, agriculture has made 13 billion schilling of structural investments, 12 billion shilling paid for machinery and equipment, that is, much more than the total amount of payments made to agriculture, will be reinvested in the economy. This means that the rural area lives, and this also ensures a great many jobs in rural areas. One can say – this is a gross number of jobs – that a job in agriculture saves two jobs in the supranational and downstream areas, as the food industry is the industry with the largest number of jobs in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the budget, however, funds are also being provided for the construction of wildlife and avalanche, amounting to 858 million Schilling, for protection water construction of 660 million. These funds, too, are always allocated to agriculture. It is important to protect the populated area – of which as many people are outside agriculture or even much more affected – from these dangers. The current discussion is, of course, intended for the next programme period, the discussion on Agenda 2000. The following speakers of my group will also discuss this subject in detail. Unfortunately, I don't have time to deal with it anymore. In conclusion, however, I would like to praise our Minister for Agriculture – the Aumayr has said she would like to praise him – for he is recognised throughout Europe. [[Abg. Aumayr: The Aumayr!]] I have heard 14 days ago at a meeting in Rome to which the chairmen of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have been invited to exchange experiences informally, that, on the occasion of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the second half of this year, there are great hopes regarding Minister Molterer, and I am also sure that he will meet these expectations. He is, wherever possible, working day and night for our farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5003	We now have two actual corrections. In both cases, I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The first comes from Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5033	High house! Mr Schwarzenberger, in his speech, has expressly referred to Member Haider as "leader" several times, apparently in the intention to discriminate against him. I'll put it right: As their boss, the Freedom Party has no "leader" but an overseer. I wonder when, at last, the attempt to introduce such a name to Members of this House...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5051	This goes beyond the actual correction, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5066	... will lead to the deserved call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5097	The next actual correction: Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5121	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Schwarzenberger has found that Members of the Liberal Party in this House would have claimed that all the support for farmers will end. This claim is incorrect. The fact is that the liberals in this House have claimed that, after the degressive compensatory payments have expired, there will be massive income losses for farmers, massive job losses will occur in agriculture, and that there will be a holocaust inheritance. If you look at the current situation, you can see that our fears have come true.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5157	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the content of these actual corrections, each speech can in the end be considered to be an actual correction, but I believe that it is undisputed that the accusation "leader" should not be raised in this House if it is not demanded by Members of the Liberal Party that they conclude contracts with which they put their voting behaviour, Mr Reichhold, under civil penalties. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I believed the climate has changed in this house, but it is always poured oil into the fire!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] If this is no longer required, then this accusation will no longer be raised. If Mrs Aumayr says here: Mr Federal Minister, when will you finally make a budget to secure the farmers' incomes, it must be made clear that farmers cannot be guaranteed their incomes over the federal budget in any way in the long run. While the Federal Budget may intervene in a limited time to compensate for income loss, there will be no income security over the budget in the long term. Parliament's task will be to create the framework conditions which will allow farmers to generate their own income independently and independently. Mr Schwarzenberger, too, has already mentioned some of the framework conditions, and he has meant that there should be a large-scale farming in Austria. But then it would be time to rethink in principle the way in which subsidies are paid from us. In this House, we have a committee which is concerned about whether or not funding needs to be re-thinked, and in particular whether a ceiling should not be reached on support per farm. The Liberals say that this is the wrong approach, because, in our view, it would be useful, in particular if we want to have a land-based farmland, to introduce a basic guarantee in the agricultural sector. This is clear from the number of persons affected, it would be clear from the financial volumes, and it would also be useful, because then all further grants that would be granted beyond this basic guarantee could be clearly defined according to political criteria. If, for example, one wants to do something in the field of environmental protection and to support it, then one can make it quite clear and should not be surprised with social thoughts. Therefore, this support system should now be phased out, introduced a basic guarantee for the agricultural sector, and all further support based on clear political criteria. That would be a way we would have liked to discuss in this House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, in particular, under the impression of the opening of the East, we will not be able to prevent the strengthening of the processing industry in Austria. We currently have a surplus in external trade with the reform states as regards agricultural products. It is true that Austrian products have a better quality, that there is a better distribution here, and that the presentation also succeeds better than with other products. These are advantages that still exist, but can be picked up in the reform states in very short periods of time. It is clear, therefore, that these benefits for Austrian agriculture will soon cease to exist in relation to the reform states. That is why it is necessary to have a more intensive manufacturing industry in Austria, because the level of income from the production of raw materials alone cannot be maintained in the agricultural sector. This is something that the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister for Economic Affairs is calling for together, because today there are many obstacles to direct marketing in the area of farmers, there are many obstacles to local marketing, and there is very little positive approach to cooperation between regional distributors and regional farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! If this does not change soon, we will be meeting in the area of agriculture in the course of the opening of the East. Therefore, even if the structures of raiffeisen are opposed, even if they are ultimately against the AMA, a rethinking must be initiated. In addition to strengthening the manufacturing industry, we also need stronger direct marketing and more direct support for farmers' own income and less support for the structures we currently have. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A third point which I would like to make is that, when it comes to having and maintaining a land-based agricultural sector, we are not able to avoid introducing cost-effectiveness on the market. As long as it is possible to produce in countries where there are much lower production costs and in particular labour costs, and to simply ship these goods from one continent to another without transport costs, it will be very difficult for a large-scale farming in Austria. This is why we need the cost-effectiveness of transport, because only then will it be possible for what is being produced in the region to be sold directly there, and not to fall short of dumping prices from other areas. I am pleased that Mr Parnigoni agrees with me here. I would be pleased if it were the same in the telecommunications sector, but this is another issue, and we will not start right now. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to income security for farmers, not only is basic security a way to create it, but it will also be a matter of opening up other fields of income to farmers in Austria in addition to this direct marketing. This includes, in particular, the fact that there should be more incentives in the field of energy production, for example in the field of energy – I am saying this from a very up-to-date point of view – so that farmers can get up there. Biomass production, biogas production, could really create an additional income here. It would mean a more decentralised energy supply, but it would also require that we implement clear provisions in the ElWOG, which is now under discussion in the House, which make this possible. It is true that, in its present form, the ElWOG does not open up these fields of income to farmers, in particular from the import tariffs mentioned there. As long as this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, what Mrs Aumayr has said will simply not be possible, namely that there will be long-term protection of farmers' income in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5237	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5258	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1999 budget, the chapter on agriculture – which has already been addressed today – is available for 24.7 billion schilling. In contrast to Mrs Aumayr, this is a lot of money, and this is a reason why we should look at the distribution and distribution effect in a little more detail. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of around one billion shillings are planned for 1999 less than this year, because the degressive compensatory payments will end. But let me start with a little bit of the general situation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have been in the European Union for a number of years now. Taking retroactively into account, we have done this successfully, we have successfully beaten ourselves, and we have successfully enforced ourselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, this has happened under other conditions, as we know. There is more competition today than before, there are other funding instruments, and a lot has been done especially in the environmental field. We see today that the path was right. Today, more is going on towards ecologisation, more is going towards natural management. That is, I think, a very important point. Finally, it is not a self-esteem, ladies and gentlemen, but it is also demanded by society quite vehemently. Today, the consumer demands quality from agriculture, demands environmental protection, demands animal welfare, and demands food safety above all. Let us remember the discussions on genetic engineering. They have shown us how sensitive the consumer is in this area. However, I would also like to focus on the development of income, because it has already been mentioned today. You have to distinguish a little, you really can't do that over a comb. The Green Report in particular provides detailed information. One can understand how incomes and incomes have really changed. Of course, there are areas that have escaped with a blue eye. I mean, above all, farms in favour. There the yield was not as bad as you often hear. – Of course, if you are dealing with income, you have to use a somewhat longer period of time, not only can you take a point of view over a year. There are, of course, also operating structures which have actually been badly removed and will continue to lose dramatically, especially in the future, and these are businesses in disadvantaged areas. These are mostly very small structures, these are our miners. In this area there is a dangerous structural breakdown which will no longer make possible long-term management – even this term has often fallen today. The number of farms has fallen dramatically in recent years. There were not the very large farms – there was even a small increase – there were mainly small farms, farms between 5 and 20 hectares. These were, again, precisely those companies that are being blasphemously disadvantaged in the current support system. These were establishments which are completely excluded in the current support system. This is, in fact, the problem that needs to be tackled, where action is to be taken, where one simply has to counter it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that our undisputed common objective is to maintain a comprehensive agriculture. But that also means quite clearly that we must radically change the existing support system and radically adapt it. Access to support must be made much easier especially for small businesses, and again for less favoured farms. We are not going to be able to deal with a base amount more intensively than before. I know that's always a hot iron, it won't be heard. However, it will not go without redistribution if we know that two thirds of the total income in agriculture is paid out of public resources. We need a base amount for our miners, in which, in addition to the surface, the working intensity is finally taken into account. The current funding system simply does not guarantee that mining plants, especially those in extreme situations, can continue to fulfil their diverse functions for society. You can see it quite clearly: Since accession to the EU, direct payments have been substantially increased, but mining companies have been significantly lagging behind in their income development vis-à-vis the other farms. Finally, I would like to make three essential points. It is essential that the necessary labour input should be included in the existing support system. It is essential that work is quantified and taken into account. That is a very important point. We can quietly borrow from the Vorarlberger Landesförderung, where a little bit can go over there: A work-related support model is currently being discussed. But we also need basic support, a base amount for our miners, especially in less favoured areas. And we need upper limits for the sake of justice alone. We will no longer be able to move beyond these upper limits. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, will it be possible to ensure a comprehensive agriculture for the future. That is our common goal – and this has already been addressed several times today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5337	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5359	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two completely different worlds will be presented at the Budget debate: the one from Mrs Aumayr and the other from Mr Schwarzenberger. The world that I am experiencing looks like we are almost nothing more negotiating in the Committee on Agriculture. I do not want to get into the old debate now, why, from an agricultural point of view, accession to the EU, which I believe was almost exclusively economically controlled, was particularly problematic. However, I want to assess how the current agricultural policy in Austria works and is being discussed. For this reason, I have these "agricultural communications" of 15. In May 1998, a subject was discussed in a particularly massive way. I assume that Mr Zweytick – who is not sitting here; ah, he is sitting behind Mr Kröll – will certainly comment on this, namely at the pig price. I had the pleasure of taking him from Vienna to Leibnitz. He then went to a beautiful farmer's assembly where the pig price was discussed, while I went to my son's house with cords and finally repaired the football gate that I had to repair for half a year. Mr Zweytick told me how it happened there, at least in part. But if I look at how agricultural officials, such as the officials up to our estimated Rudolf Schwarzböck, the newly elected head of the presidential conference, explain the agricultural policy, then I have the impression that essentially the democratic structure has shifted so much that now the opposition is no longer the opposition in Parliament – either, I say the once-legitimating extreme or well-mean ecologist – the actual opposition in the agricultural policy in Europe is now the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP:Reelected!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Meisinger.]] You now have to send appeals to Brussels, and your negotiator, the Molterer, must give the best greetings and wishes so that he can finally carry out what we have always wanted in Austria for decades: a massive ecologicalization, a consideration of the social situation, a consideration of the business situation in Austria. Now the Molterer, Minister of Agriculture from Austria, is becoming the real agricultural opposition in the field of agricultural policy. Increase EU export refund. Appeal of the chamber – the chamber becomes opposition! – to fisherman: More than 1 000 s are currently not coming to the farmers. – This was the line of reasoning of the liberals, the Greens or the Liberals, who drew attention to the fact that there is an incredible discrepancy between what is paid to farmers and farmers, and what the consumer eventually pays to the carnivores. This line of argument is now fully supported by the chamber officials, because what has previously been directed against Vienna, against the centre where the funds have been collected, is now directed against Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! I can recall discussions in the Committee on Agriculture, which have been really about concrete things that I have had the impression of: Here you can move a little bit. There have been heated discussions, fierce discussions, in part fair, in part less fair, but I have had the feeling: This is where agricultural policy is being fought, where the concerns of the rural population are concerned, regardless of the ideological camps of the individual people. Mr Schwarzenberger is now driving to Rome, sitting there with the Committee presidents and looking forward to the fact that Minister for Agriculture Molterer has such a good reputation. Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at what is in this beautiful report, how the official agricultural policy of Austria - "measures for agriculture and forestry for the year 1999" - looks at what the Austrian guidelines are, I can consistently agree with all these headings. [[The speaker pages in a paper]] I don't have a problem with that at all. However, in the context of the definition of "improvement of the market position of farms", "competitive processing and marketing structures" and "strengthening agricultural marketing", the question must already be asked: What does that mean? – I can then read again in the "Agricultural Communications", as the individual officials of the deep black peasant associations see this. There is a very interesting comment from Helmut Pieber under the title "Sweine-Millions", and then the chairman of the mast committee of Styriabrid, Franz Gruber, writes "Schachmatt or Farm Sacrifice?"and both are aware that the situation on the pig market is so difficult because, of course, there have been massive enlargements here, with the exception of some countries; Holland is cited here – but especially because the market is hotter. The United States is now pressing massively on the East Asian market, so that the American mast pigs can also be removed there. Mr Jost proposes: It must finally be cleared out of the market. And that can only happen with export. I ask you: Is this approach compatible with all the other comments which I believe are perfectly correct? The first point: Further development of the reform of the common agricultural policy towards organic and socially sustainable agriculture. – What can I have about it? I can underline this one hundred percent. "Enough funding of the support measures for agriculture and forestry also with a view to making the best use of EU co-financing." – The question here is of course: How long do I want to maintain this kind of teaching, this kind of support? Mr Barmüller has rightly noted that the objective must be to achieve cost-effectiveness in all these areas, so that competitiveness does not result from how strong or weak national funding plans are, as cleverly individual politicians negotiate at international congresses, in order to prevent or build up barriers to trade, so-called or actual ones, but that it is ultimately about the region in which the best food is produced and under whatever conditions they are then distributed and brought to the consumer, to the consumer. What Barmüller rightly calls for here is: If I want to be cost-truth, I also have to force it. The eco-tax reform in Austria has been announced by the Austrian Federal Government for ten years, but is not being implemented. How can it be that such a noble product – and I think a pig carver is quite a noble product – is transported thousands of kilometers and it is cheaper than one from the South Styria because it has been produced in the USA? What's the big difference? Are the farmers in America paid so badly? Do the pigs grow there so fast? Are they fed with turbofood? Or is there another reason? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that this debate is very wise and not with all the emphasis. There's talk about "storageful agricultural marketing". The word "strengthening" at least suggests that people in the Ministry of Agriculture are aware that this is a proper debate, because if I want to have a strong one, I have to strike somewhere. Obviously there are massive opponents here, there is a real war on the world market, which I have already reported in some other speeches here. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this approach - even though Mr Barmüller did not properly discuss it with Mr Kier - is a very wise one, as he really means by basic security, that we are starting to define basic security in the agricultural sector as well as in other areas. Additional funding based on political considerations – for introducing a basic guarantee – is indeed a political consideration of the social nature; it is thus agreed to every person that he has sufficient money to fight daily needs – that is, additional funding and additional expenses, which, of course, need to be negotiated politically and can become more or less, can be seen from very specific aspects. We Greens have always seen this clearly under the ecological and social aspects. Mr Schwarzenberger! In addition to your surely interesting trips to Rome, perhaps you should convene a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, in which exactly this is the issue of the upper limits of support, basic security, as they ask the Greens and the Liberals... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Remember the 3. July before!]] Deputies! I remember the 3rd. I would like to ask you for one thing, but I would ask you, that you will then seriously discuss this issue of promotions and not say again after half an hour or three quarters of an hour: It's enough for today! Next year, please! I believe that this debate must be carried out massively, and you, Mr Barmüller, should actually agree with Mr Kier, as you really think in your programme. I think that this approach is a golden one, and I would regret that if you as an agricultural speaker were no longer available, you would be giving the booklet to the hostess Helmut Peter, who would certainly make interesting proposals for agriculture, but who might see this too much under the neoliberalist aspect. [[Abg. May. Peter: I have a farm!]] That's a little danger. If the ecological brake, the colleague Haselsteiner, is no longer in the club, it may be that Helmut Peter is going through the neoliberalist horses and the agriculture is then seen from a completely different point of view. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What the hell is going on, Mr. Colleague?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know whether it is because in this House there is really only so little negotiation about agricultural policy, but my unhappiness to fight here is almost impossible to overcome. Nevertheless, I will read to you a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will give you once again the opportunity, in particular, to implement the first point in your outline that you have given me – in a beautifully printed form, with this beautifully idealistic image in front: a river, three ears, a yellow landscape with stylized spruce trees, without farmers; I hope that is not visionary thought of you. In order to achieve the first sentence in full beauty, I would like to ask you to agree to this request. This request is addressed in particular to colleagues Schwarzenberger and colleagues Zweytick, who have always been advocates of the use of genetic engineering in agriculture, who have meant: If consumers wish, then of course we are the producers, who also take account of the wishes of consumers and really represent this serious concern. I therefore assume that they will agree to this request. Mrs Petrovic will make further proposals to which Mr Schwarzböck will certainly agree. This is a radical change in this sector of subsidies for animal transport. They will agree that the animal protectionists will also have their bright joy with the great, actually the largest animal protection party ÖVP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5482	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported and is under negotiation. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall give Mr Schwarzenberger a call for order because of the multiple use of the word 'leader', especially because I consider it incompatible with the dignity of the National Council that function and appointment from the time of the Third Reich, in particular the NSDAP, are used here as a comparison. Mr Ing. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Reichhold. I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5515	High house! I have to correct once again a claim made by Mr Schwarzenberger, who, with the help of a quote, makes the following statement to the party chairman of the Freedom Party, Dr. Haider. [[Call: What? Which]] Wait! [[Abg. Steibl: You should be able to read!]] [[Further calls.]] He claimed: "To the second we would demand" – says Dr. Haider, that's the quote – "that the current subsidies are removed by 50 percent. No one hurts... not even agriculture." I'm sorry, but Says Schwarzenberger. I'm actually correcting. The quote is: Secondly, we would demand that the current subsidies be removed by 50 per cent. This does not hurt anyone... not even agriculture" – instead of the point being added here – "because agriculture is very dependent on cooperation promotions that have to be carried largely by the Federal Government and by countries and the EU." The emphasis is on "must". That means it cannot be shortened here, and it is thus clarified...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5572	Please note that this is an actual correction. If you will continue with the actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5587	Mr Barmüller, you have so strictly interpreted the Rules of Procedure. That is to say, the emphasis is on "must", there is nothing to be shortened here, and this makes it clear that agriculture cannot be included in the general subsidy stop, which is meant here by Dr. Haider. I ask you to finally take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5652	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. Voluntary time limit 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5673	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is probably undisputed in the discretion of the President-in-Office to give a call for order. The call for order just given by Mr Schwarzenberger was based on an indication that words by political leaders, controversial, criminal leaders of Austrian and German history, do not correspond to the style of the house. [[Call:]] I can recall a debate two weeks ago in which similar notes relating to criminal top-notch personalities were used for most of the Members of four political groups. In my opinion, there should have been an orgy of calls for order if it had been measured at the same level! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl has stretched the bow from the first speaker, colleague Aumayr, to colleagues in Schwarzenberger. Mr Wabl will understand that I was stretching the bow from Aumayr to Wabl. Mr Wabl, it would not have been necessary to cause lustlessness. It is felt by you alone that you spent your evening in a crisis situation for all pig farmers at low prices in the pigmeat and pigmeat market – fortunately for your son – with the repair of the football gate, while Zweytick and all of us have basically devoted ourselves to the conversation with the farmers and crisis management, with the successful recipe that the Austrian Minister of Agriculture, who will take over the Presidency of the Council in a few weeks, has found alliance partners among the important colleagues in Europe, so that within days refunds have been used which have led to an increase of almost 10 percent in the market price within five days. This is on the one hand work and on the other side frustration and pre-programmed exit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Luckily, in this comparison you mentioned, at least one benefits, that's your son. It was granted to him, but one thing to say was already allowed to me: It is constantly presented here as if farmers' officials, farmers' representatives, were taken away from the Minister, and we could hear from other directions how the farmers are doing. [[Abg. Oillinger: The rose stingl is taken away!]] I think it is clearly understandable where the discussion, feeling, living with the farmers takes place, otherwise these successes, which Minister Molterer, with the support of many farmers' officials in Brussels, could not have been possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The unfortunately not too pleasing presence of God in the face of the budget debate, capital agriculture, can only have a good reason from the point of view of a farmer and a farmer's representative: that the absent colleagues can enjoy the lunch table as much as possible. [[Abg. Oillingers: The ÖVP leaves out! The ÖVP leaves out completely! The ÖVP is weakly represented!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Not even the clubman is here! Not even my colleague, Khol, is interested!]] This would at least help us in some areas. I have, unfortunately, overlooked God's lack of time, that I have exceeded my speaking time in the chapter on foreign policy, and therefore I would like to keep my collegiate brief to bring back for my friends what I unfortunately overlaid God unconsciously. Mr Wabl! In one we agree, but not because Minister Molterer is a agricultural oppositionist, but because he has the chance of the century for Austria to devote itself to a key problem of European agricultural policy already in the fourth year of membership in the Council Presidency during the Agenda negotiations: In the coming years, in the face of the WTO and in the face of enlargement to a global market offensive with a defensive safeguarding of multifunctional agriculture, are we going to, according to the model of European agriculture, a strengthening of multifunctional agriculture? – Perceiving the opportunities on the world market, to which I also call myself. Only one thing needs to be said stone and clear: This European debate must be conducted. The priority world market orientation is incompatible with multifunctional agriculture and therefore nonsensory. Therefore, it is our task, not only in the interests of the Austrian peasantry, but in the interests of the basic consensus of Austrian politics, in accordance with 80, 90 percent of the Austrian population, to want to use world market opportunities, but to maintain the multifunctional orientation of the agricultural policy, because only in this way the centuries-long development and the importance of farming beyond the production tasks as a life-safer, environment-guarantors – I could still list 20 concepts of multifunctionality and tasks – are at all sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen! Here we have a strong piece of work to do. That is why, Mr Wabl, I say quite openly: Of course, we may not be able to discuss with the Minister of Agriculture every week in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs, and I would also like to say once again that what has already been started in the sub-committees and in the debates in the Committee on Agriculture, as we position this eco-social, multi-functional agriculture, we can continue to do this in the plenary session, in committee meetings, in the public debate. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: As long as he's not in Brazil!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Schwarzböck, tell me when the last time has been discussed! And ever since!]] I would like to conclude by commenting on the motion for a resolution. Mr Wabl, the demand that the Greens and, in some cases, the Liberals – I believe, even with their own motions for resolutions – have made to include or have to include a genetic engineering obligation in the ÖPUL funding would not mean a boost in ecologisty for Austria, but this would force many who want to produce, even force, environmentally oriented. For with what is happening on the market, and with what is given to legal order in association with the EU legal order to control genetic engineering in plant breeding and plant engineering, it would not be expected at present that everyone would remain in public health, since they would have to give up something for which they cannot even provide guarantees due to liability problems. And the development of the market, Mr Wabl and Mrs Petrovic, shows us that purchasing behaviour and verbal demand, signature in popular desire and the like are far different. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not the market, that's political control! The market doesn't want genetic engineering!]] Therefore, we have a way of developing things: in organic farming – of course free from genetic engineering – in the field of environmentally-oriented agriculture, where it is only somehow, but not with bans and obligations that kill the farmers. It is a question of making these principles compatible with the market, which are indeed binding on us. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who's the market?]] In this sense, a warm invitation to resume this discussion in the future Committee on Agriculture and not to say goodbye to agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5821	Mr Ing. Reichhold. The rules of the Rules of Procedure are now fully known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5845	High house! I am correcting a claim made by Mr Schwarzböck, who said that the Greens and the Liberals had tabled a request for a ban on genetic engineering in ÖPUL II. – This is incorrect. The liberals have never filed an application, but perhaps a request for compensation for competitive disadvantages for those who are not in the genetic engineering programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5875	President. — The debate is closed. Molterer. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e5896	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, I would like to use this budget debate to present the main key points of the 1999 federal proposal from the point of view of agriculture and forestry. In fact, it is a budget estimate which can be seen from particular points of view. First: It is the first budget in 1999 to be drawn up on the basis of the new 40 billion package, the new 40 billion agreement between the federal government and the Austrian federal states. At this point, I would like to thank you very much for the collaborative cooperation with Federal Minister Edlinger. I would also like to thank the federal states for having been able, in a very short time, to extend this 40-billion package for a further four years and thus also to give farmers security and to face all the arguments that have been expressed very often here in this House and beyond, that after the year 2000 there will no longer be any support instruments for agriculture at all. This agreement, this 40 billion package, shows that it is serious for farmers, ladies and gentlemen, with the safeguarding and stable development of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Aumayr points out that the 1995 budget had provided a higher sum for agriculture and forestry than the 1999 budget, then that is correct. But for the sake of fairness, it is also appropriate to say why. First of all, the 1995 budget has included a high amount of stockpiling, and, Mrs Aumayr, it is absolutely wrong if you claim that any money from industry has been thrown into revenge here. They know very well that this was the basic condition for the farmers to get the prices due to them in 1994 because the economy was allowed to sell at the lower prices in 1995. This downstocking has been a security for the farmers. Secondly, It was known and aware that a transitional period was fixed for Austrian agriculture, which was another one that was originally planned. Because this other transitional aid has become necessary in the form of degressive compensation payments, the budget is the visible expression of the transition. If the other form of transition had been chosen, ladies and gentlemen, it would not have been in the budget, but farmers would have had the similar problems which I do not deny by the gradual opening of markets or by the gradual reduction of prices. We have respected and even expanded the support provided for in the Europe Agreements in particular areas. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is at an important time, at an important stage of the changeover for agriculture. In my view, I would like to highlight key points that are necessary for this Austrian agriculture in this transition phase. It is clear, first of all, that even in the future, in the future conception of the rural family business is at the heart of the agricultural policy of the Federal Government and that nothing will change in this objective of the rural family enterprise at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is clear, however, that in a situation such as that of farmers as entrepreneurs, as a family company, there is a knowledge that, at a changeover phase, the operation must also respond: with greater professionalization, with stronger market position, Mr Wabl – I will come back to it – and also with the adoption of new technologies. I am thinking here about information and communication technology. I do not understand, therefore, Mrs Aumayr, that as a farmer you are complaining that the Minister of Agriculture is making money available to inform farmers. I would have legitimately taken an accusation from the opposition if I had done nothing if I had not informed the farmers about the possibilities of EU funding. And I am this... – I am already talking about it, honourable Members –... [[Abg. Aumayr: This is an advertising campaign! An advertising campaign for you!]] Money is a good money, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Aumayr: I think so! It was good for you!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Not for consumers!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is a second major focus in agricultural orientation. As agriculture, we need to deal more closely with the market and consumers – Mr Reichhold, I would like to say this to you as a farmer. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What is the agricultural marketing organization doing? Isn't that her job?]] I do not understand that farmers are complaining that the Minister of Agriculture is taking money in order to inform consumers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you are criticizing, for example, in these campaigns, which are not a secret either – [[Abg. Aumayr: This is indescribable!]] You yourself have the parliamentary response to the question, Mrs Deputies – if, for example, the information work of the agricultural sector is informed about organic farming. What's bad about that? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 130 million for the AMA!]] I wonder, What is bad about informing the general public about farmers' initiative in direct marketing? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That's great!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You kill the peasants with your orders!]] What is bad about it, ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, the public is informed about the Austrian environmental programme, about the reduction of the use of plant protection products? What is bad about informing about the strategies on groundwater protection and an active forestry policy? What is bad about trying to keep the Austrian agricultural products faithful to consumers? Both of them have something: consumers, who get good Austrian products, and farmers, because the home market is still the safer market. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support these positive aspects and also to talk to the public about what is good in the interests of consumers and farmers when offensive information is done here! [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what Eitles are!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: And in your sense!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A third essential element will have to remain the environmental orientation of agricultural and agricultural activity in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Minister! I would recommend a better photographer because you look so dark!]] In my view, therefore, the development of environmental aspects on the one hand is a key issue in promoting and, on the other hand, in improving the market position for organically produced products on the other. Mr Barmüller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Barmüller for his excellent report. It is probably not possible to achieve the guarantee of income security alone through the budget, but we always need both elements: market income and performance-oriented compensation from the budget. In the future, we need innovative agriculture, which has already been mentioned today, for example in the field of organic production, organic farming, but that alone is not enough. I think that the further expansion of bioenergy, the use of raw materials, is a key issue for a future-oriented strategy, on which we will continue to work as successfully as we have so far. Ladies and gentlemen! The market position and thus also the competitive position of agriculture are a strategic objective. Mr Wabl! I do not understand you, if you see in the objective formulated in the Green Plan - formulated by me and so taken note of by the Federal Government - that of strengthening the competitive position of the Austrian processing industry an attack on agricultural agriculture. It's absolutely mysterious to me. It is quite logical, however, that, regardless of the type of production, this also applies to the organic sector, the Austrian farmer has better revenues if its products have a better market position. And if the better market position is achieved by strengthening the competitive position of the processing industry on the one hand and the farming communities on the other, that can only be a common objective. I would therefore really like to ask, Mr Wabl, that the leap – I say: the ideological leap – which many organic farmers have made by deliberately combining themselves with representatives of the large distribution forms of trade, in order to achieve a better market position in this way, is also achieved in a positive way by the Greens. Mr Wabl! I do not understand the question of the role of the chambers in relation to the pig market. As a member of the European Council in good Community, I feel that I have succeeded in doing something positive, not because I am acting out of the opposition role in Europe, but because we have succeeded in Austria being able to act as a full, equal and recognised member of the Community, because we have succeeded in convincing colleagues of the Council of Agriculture Ministers. If the agricultural chambers and the agricultural interest groups are actively involved, we have achieved the best together. In the Committee on Agriculture, for example, we will be dealing with a wine law novel, a fertiliser law novel, which we have now presented to Parliament by the Federal Government, and with a water law novel. I do not think that the High House can complain about unemployment in the context of agricultural policy – and lustlessness is generally not a recipe in politics, Mr Wabl, because it does not help farmers! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is essential that we also prepare agriculture for difficult developments – I am thinking, for example, of enlargement of the European Union or, for example, of the Agenda discussion. I believe that the figures used in the BVA 1999 are a good, solid basis, such as in the market, in the environment, in the field of mining, in the field of investment, in the promotion of the sector and in the promotion of forestry. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also a few sentences on the very important and critical debate on the future European agricultural policy. I thought it was wrong, in this discussion the Austrian agricultural policy insisted exclusively on a Njet position, because a Njet position would be wrong. We must face up to the needs that arise in the future. Just as agriculture has done in preparation for accession, so we need to deal with these challenges in the future. I share Mr Schwarzböck's attitude and assessment on this issue, which says: The most important question is the objective pursued by reforms. And for me, the main objective is to secure the European model of agriculture. It is clear that this European model of agriculture also needs a leg on the world market, but it is not the reverse way to go. My first objective is therefore sustainable, multifunctional, comprehensive and competitive agriculture, which has a good position on the world market; a global market position, which, however, is also provided by a WTO strategy which ensures the higher costs of this form of agriculture. And then we have to talk about the details, about the policy that brings positive elements for rural areas, for example. Mr Wimmer! As regards the assessment of the need for the base amount for smaller farms in the mountain area, we absolutely agree and have to separate the question of basic security from it, as I believe this is another political debate. The amount of the base for the smaller farms is in my view an expression of the need for these farms and the level of support alone is not sufficient. – That is the political goal for me. We can see prospects for environmental policy, for example, in this new integrated rural development. From the critical assessment of the Commission's proposals for market regulation, I have never made a success. I also highlighted them very clearly this week in the Council of Agriculture Ministers from the Austrian point of view. Our strategy is that, on the basis of the financial framework, on the basis of the agricultural guideline, agricultural incomes are at the heart of the agricultural policy, firstly by keeping price reductions as low as possible as possible, if they are at all necessary, by aligning compensation payments in such a way that they are adapted to Austrian needs – I am thinking, for example, of the cow premium, whose calculation model does not meet our needs but in principle constitutes a step in the right direction. I believe that the impulses in relation to income policy, with innovative products, will also be given the same importance for ensuring agricultural agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to an aspect which is now becoming increasingly common in the discussion: Of course, Austria assumes a particularly high level of responsibility through its Presidency in the European Union and thus also in the Agriculture Council. I do not want to demonstrate this high level of responsibility by the fact that Austria is acting as a braker in these reforms, but I would like to demonstrate this high level of responsibility by demonstrating that we are influencing the reforms in the right direction. I say: The phase of uncertainty we have – and there is no doubt about it – is to be kept as short as possible, and it is also necessary, from the point of view of agriculture, to make the right adjustments in a timely manner in order to give safe and positive prospects from 2002 onwards. Agriculture has never acted properly with delays and brakes. Finally, that is the last thing the Austrian farmers want.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6133	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next item is the speech by Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6157	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! - No, I don't need to show you anything. [[Call the ÖVP:Wenitsch! Today you'll show us again!]] I had expected you today to show something that makes sense to the farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! The denunciation of other parties is not enough! Today, I expected you to make concrete proposals, operating grants, something about Agenda 2000. I had expected you to take this up, but not a word about it. The denunciation of other parties will not be enough in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is said that the budget is the government's programme cast in figures. Minister! I have to tell you: With the budget which is under discussion today, you have once again failed to set the course for an ecological, environmentally conscious, sustainable and rural agricultural policy in Austria and to take the right steps. Instead of focusing on agricultural agriculture It seems to be on genetic engineering and agro-industrial. This is in my eyes exactly the wrong direction, the wrong path, just this one we should not go. Minister! I must say that with this budget you have more or less bowed to the EU's diktat and moved towards structural adjustment in the rural landscape. And I am very sorry, because structural adjustment means nothing but the deaths of farmers in this context. We are more or less concerned with this today. Minister! There are clear warnings in the agricultural sector from many experts – I am not talking about political opponents, but about experts. For example, I can quote Professor Matthias Schneider, who said in April of this year: Agricultural income fell by 4 percent in Austria in 1997. It has fallen more strongly than in the EU average, where there were around 2.8 percent. He also says why this came about, namely: In particular, the reduction of degressive compensatory payments has contributed greatly to this loss of income. Minister! I can still remember this: In 1995 and in 1994 it was said before the EU vote that the degressive compensatory payments were in order, as farmers should be slowly directed towards the EU level with these degressive compensatory payments. In other words, it is expected that, when these degressive payments expire, operating prices in Austria are fairly aligned with those in the other countries of the European Union. But we are unfortunately in the opposite direction today. There is nothing to see from EU prices for operating resources. For example, in the case of diesel fuels, we have a price twice as high as the EU average. Minister! You have to explain to me how an Austrian farmer who pays twice as high a price for diesel fuel as a farmer elsewhere in the EU should be able to compete with these farmers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have already made several requests in this context – even today he was brought back by my colleague – namely that we should finally take steps in the right direction and lead the Austrian diesel price to EU level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But even today he will be rejected again. I have a quote from Mr Ledermüller. Farm Federal Director Franz Ledermüller, for example, says: In all cases, the different rates of VAT have led to price differences. - Sure. Today, we are giving you the opportunity to balance these differences. Mr Aumayr has also returned our request for a pre-tax fee today. I am eager to see how the members of the ÖVP will behave, how the friends of the Federal Foreign Minister Franz Ledermüller will behave, who clearly demands this. Ladies and gentlemen! We are definitely on the wrong path. We must see that in the future in Austria we will have sustainable farming – not an agricultural industry. Because of our geographical situation, we simply cannot keep up with the agricultural industries. You cannot imagine from the ÖVP that a Tyrolean miner can stay with a farmer in America, in France or elsewhere. This is clearly not possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! For example, one important point would have been – and I would have expected that from you, Mr Schwarzenberger, – at last to address this pre-tax fee officially in the House. Minister Molterer! You have informed us at the Committee meeting that you have already conducted negotiations with Minister of Finance Edlinger on the flat-rate pre-tax rate and that you may take this into account in the year 2000 tax reform – if you agree with him. Minister! If you can only agree on this pre-tax fee with Minister of Finance Edlinger in 2000 we will have lost tens of thousands of farmers in Austria until then. I am really sorry for our cultural landscape, which we still have in Austria. We must now finally try to make the right agricultural policy in Austria. Whether this is successful also depends very strongly on what Mr Wabl has already done, which budget you and your Ministry of Austrian Agriculture create. Minister! You have also said that you have created stable conditions for the Austrian peasantry. If these conditions are as stable as you say, where does the incomes of last year come from? In 1996: minus 8 per cent, last year: minus 4 per cent, and even in this year, there will be a reduction in income, and I am convinced of that. [[Abg. Aumayr: Stable losses are these!]] Please, where are the stable conditions? – It is a stable farmer’s death and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Yes, that's it!]] Minister! I have one further question to raise by saying that you have a lot of money for environmental conditions. You know the 3rd. Wiener Wasserleitung is being built, and you have informed us in response to a written request from us: "In addition, the duly prescribed hygienic proof programme offers – in this case 3. Wiener Wasserleitung – "the guarantee that in the case of limit values, the immediate withdrawal of HFB M I is ensured. Moreover, in such a case, further processing measures are planned." My question is: What preparation measures are provided for here? And above all: Who's gonna pay for this? In your budget I have not noticed far and wide that you are thinking of finally keeping federal money free so that you can do something in this direction. I am convinced that if the treatment measures are to become really necessary, the consumer will pay them and no one else. And that's, I think, the wrong way. In Austria, the agricultural budget should provide for a much larger volume of ecology than is currently the case. In this direction we must go – for the benefit of our farmers and for the benefit of the consumers in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6256	The next item is the report by Mr Achs. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would say that the 1999 agricultural budget represents continuity and the continuation of an agricultural policy, as it has been operating Austria since it entered the European Union and the adoption of the common agricultural policy. It is therefore not surprising that, in recent weeks and months, not the national agricultural budget, but the forthcoming European Union reform package has been at the heart of the discussions with Agenda 2000; the discussions that have shown that European agriculture is facing major changes, but that the Commission's proposals for reform will only be in the interests of farmers' agriculture if they are still subject to thorough revision. I am convinced that this will happen, especially since in Europe there has been a broad front of critics who have expressed their concerns clearly and clearly. For example, in an APA report of 8. The German Minister for Agriculture Borchert announced that 12 out of 15 EU Member States had already spoken against the current version of Agenda 2000. It goes one step further and believes that even the Commission has now admitted that, according to its plans, expenditure would rise by around 45 billion schilling – and that in the case of declining incomes in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! If these discussions are followed, it is no longer surprising that in parts of the rural population there is uncertainty that confidence in the European Union's bodies is strained. It is therefore all the more important that national areas of play in the agricultural policy be optimally exploited, that everything is done in this country to give Austrian agriculture clear prospects. The 1999 agricultural budget shows these in different areas. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the measures relating to ecologicalisation and the related extension of organic farming. As is known, Austria is already Europe-wide the number one with regard to sustainability in agricultural production. That's good, but that alone is not enough. We must not stop half the way, but we must now use this positive potential more and more to strengthen international competitiveness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Naturalness and quality are not just a keyword in this country, but an integral part of a farming economy and a rural culture. The trend of recent years shows that this culture has strengthened itself in many areas of agriculture and has led to a better market position for our farms. To a particular extent, this was the case with wine-growing. It is no coincidence, therefore, that only yesterday local winegrowers at the Laibacher Wine Fair were able to celebrate great successes and Austria was the most successful in cutting off from the 29 participating countries. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] – The Burgenländer were also very good, but this is an Austrian success. The commitment to quality is paid and contributes to the reputation of the entire Austrian wine industry. It is therefore gratifying that in the coming year there will also be funds for quality improvement measures in wine-growing in order to be able to continue consistently the good path of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that economic success recipes are not 1: 1 transferable, and my appeal therefore goes only to the point that one should at least try to implement the positive emphasis of the wine sector also in other agricultural areas. Although market conditions are not identical, even if the structures are different: Farming has a good long-term chance when quality is the top priority and when it is understood to apply it accordingly in the markets. Of course, it is also necessary to vote in favour of the framework conditions, as laid down by the budget or the agricultural guidelines of the European Union. Federal Minister! It is therefore essential for Austria to take a clear position with regard to Agenda 2000 in order to best match the interests of the rural population. Only in this way is it guaranteed that in the coming years and decades, this country will be characterised by a farm-structured agriculture, which makes an indispensable contribution to the quality of life of all people in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6352	The next item is the speech by Mr Koller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the Styria there is excitement for the local Lipizzans, because of the fight for the so-called breed breeding book. [[Call to the ÖVP: What does that mean?]] According to the EU Animal Breed Commission, in addition to Austria, Italy has also applied for the guidance of this breeding certificate for white horses. Italy wants to be recognized as the country of origin of the Lipizzans, as well as Austria. If the desire of the Italians continues and if they are to receive the award for these rights, the consequences may be the result. The horses bred in Piber in Styria would not officially be considered purebred descendants of their kind. [[Abg. May. Steindl: But this is a joke!]] During the cultivation of the Lipizzans, our experiences range back to the year 1580 when the imperial structure was founded in Piber. The horses are not only characterized by their proud and elegant appearance, but they are no longer to be thought away as an Austrian tourist attraction. [[Abg. Zweytick: In Lipizza in Slovenia there are also, descendants!]] But now to the budget: The total budget rose by 35 billion schilling compared with 1998, but the agricultural budget fell by 1.1 billion schilling. In 1995, the agricultural budget was still 33 billion, as my colleague Aumayr has already reported – at that time 3.4 percent of the total budget – but in 1999 it was only 23.4 billion Schilling – which is 2.3 percent of the total budget. This is budget renovation at the expense and expense of farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Now the Lipizzans don't even get something to eat!]] The farmer's death is partly homemade. According to Professor Schneider of the Wifo, the decline in income in agriculture was 8.4 per cent in 1997, but only 3 per cent is estimated in the Green Plan. The situation is distorted. The Federal Government is the world champion in beautiful colours! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the same as the unemployment rate. In the EU average, the decline in income in agriculture was only 2.8 percent. Degressive compensatory payments are under way. They amounted to 7.3 billion schilling in the first year of EU accession. Farmers will not be able to make up for this loss of support. The dependence of agriculture on the public sector and therefore on policy-makers, in particular the EU, is becoming increasingly evident. Ladies and gentlemen! The §-7 Commission has been demanding for years: No other social burden on the peasant families! Today, however, the pension contribution was increased from 13.5 to 14 percent. Furthermore, the §-7 Commission calls for the standard rate of VAT to be increased from 10 to 12 percent – Mr Wenitsch has submitted an application for this. I would ask you to agree to this because farmers lose 1.75 billion schilling a year by not increasing them. The plans for the increase in basic tax are certainly known to the Minister and it is clear why he does not comment on these unpleasant questions. [[Abg. May. Steindl: There are no plans!]] In the Committee, the Minister said that he was negotiating with the Minister for Finance as regards turnover tax. I say: All of this is empty talk, because you, Mr Minister, have been able to get on the table during the budget negotiations: [[Complaints with the liberals]] 1.1 billion schilling less for agriculture! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the countries with the highest operating resources prices – my colleague Wenich has already done so. It should not be seen that Austria has the highest price for diesel oil in Europe. [[Abg. Kiss: What does that have to do with Lipizzans?]] It should also be noted that tax products included in the diesel oil price are only used for road maintenance. Most tractors drive on the field and in the Greenland. It would be appropriate for you, Minister of Agriculture, to bring about a fair settlement with the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Kiss: Argumentative bocks jumps are these!]] The Federal Government is increasingly attracting the tax and fee screw, and in return, the agricultural income is falling. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Agriculture Molterer criticises Agenda 2000 for a 30 percent reduction in the price of cereals without full compensation and for beef and veal, and says that, according to Fischler's ideas, there will no longer be production of energy raw materials on decommissioned areas. The quality of this criticism will not be proven until the Minister of Agriculture will have sufficient opportunity, as part of the EU Presidency, to present acceptable alternatives in the sense of Austrian agriculture and its sustainability. In the Committee on Budgets, Mr Minister, you said literally: National scope is not a priority. The agenda should be acceptable to Austrian farmers. – Minister! How serious are you to take? [[Call the ÖVP: Very!]] On the one hand, you have clear criticism – and on the other hand you play the model student of the EU. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Set For the interests of the Austrian farmers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6528	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the various statements of the liberal opposition here, you already have to ask a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! The following is really interesting: It is lamented that the Federal Minister is spending funds - I say modest resources - to present to consumers the situation of agriculture and the product range of the Austrian farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not pay for something inside. I think you'd very much like to pay for it at the moment so that nothing is inside. [[towards the freedom of movement]] That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. - I'm gracious, yes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: Very gracious!]] It is undisputed that the diesel price in Austria, compared with that of other European countries, is relatively high. It is also undisputed that it would be positive if it were less. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make the following account: An average farm, as described by you liberties, consumes around 3,000 liters of diesel oil per year. I don't think that's going to be a dispute. Let us now assume that an allowance of 3 to 4 s per litre is possible, which would be desirable and perhaps necessary. This is a saving of 3,000, yes to 12 000 and 15 000 s, when it comes to a slightly larger holding. This amount can easily be lost in the current price situation for other products, for example a lot of mastics. That is why, I believe, we should turn to more essential things and, particularly with regard to diesel oil, try to promote renewable products – and not fossil fuels from abroad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it should also be undisputed – and I agree with you – that an agricultural industry, an agricultural industry without regard to what will be what will be later, should be rejected. It is undisputed that world market prices without financial compensation would mean the ruin of thousands of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that in such a case there would be a massive concentration of livestock with negative effects, and that this would mean the erasure of rural areas, at least partly, of rural areas. If, however, you claim that this agricultural budget would, as it were, provide intermediate services in this direction, I would be quite clear about that. This agricultural budget by Mr Molterer means continuity and stability for Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are the priorities of this budget? – It is worth mentioning, among other things, what has already been said by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, a number of additional points, namely the increase in quality and the strengthening of direct marketing. Thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the fact that the development of the road network makes many additional possibilities, and also thank you for strengthening the promotion of biomass production. And in the end: This budget is also an ecological-generational agreement between farmers, consumers and partners who really need to get together here. It is also – I would especially like to make a request to the Freedom Party – to explain what helps farmers: Does the farmers only have the right to use them, the pity and the complaint, or does it help the farmers to identify solutions, to motivate them in quite difficult times and to show solutions? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Jacob, the last!]] I believe that what we are doing will help farmers more than your mess-making! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: your messmaker!]] I said, what helps farmers more. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: your messmaker!]] Yeah, if you say that yourself, maybe I can confirm it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I only repeat this statement for the record!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that there is a need for rethinking in many areas. It is also undisputed that the success of a farm is not solely dependent on a budget or a hectare size, but very often depends on the flexibility and innovation of farmers, but also on the downstream industry. I expressly confirm that it is relatively inconceivable to export cereals and import them back in the form of pasta and biscuits. It is also inconceivable to export milk surpluses abroad and then not to know how this milk is paid, because it was quite easy to export to Italy without carrying out a credit check on such exports, and then not to know how to get these funds back. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is undisputed. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] It is also undisputed that it is necessary to make greater use of, promote and take new ways in this regard. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Who prevents you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also necessary in the field of renewable energy sources, because its own value added, independence from security of supply and ultimately also production in its own fields. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should all – and I agree with everyone who is quite willing to do something for agriculture – ensure that farmers are not only degraded into the management of nature reserves, but that as much as possible can be achieved through their own products. Our Federal Minister and this budget are the guarantees for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6696	Mr Salzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6718	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to the honourable Member's statements It is undisputed, as he has formulated, that a reduction in agricultural prices at world market level would result in the death of domestic agriculture without any corresponding compensation. I would like to pay tribute here to Mr Schwarzenberger and to his statements on Jörg Haider on agricultural support. I've got an APA message from 14. February 1997, in which it says – and I quote in contrast to you literally and completely –: Commissioner Fischler calls for the reduction of subsidies. Artificially high prices lead to the dead end. EU Agriculture Commissioner Franz Fischler has voted in favour of reducing agricultural subsidies. Price support could not secure the incomes of farms in the long run. - Quote. And this Mr Fischler is a farmer's alliance, like you, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fischler did not talk about a percentage, but apparently meant all subsidies, and he did not say that in Austria, but significantly in Germany, so that he did not force the ÖVP to do so here in Austria. There will be two major areas of problem in the coming years, which will be common to our country, our agriculture and our economy. It is the Agenda 2000 and the enlargement of the EU, which is to be financed through Agenda 2000 and a re-distribution of funding. Ladies and gentlemen! The longer-term objective of the European Commission under Agenda 2000 is that our farmers should play in the world market and produce at world market prices. This Agenda 2000 is a first step in this direction. The planned large price reductions, such as about 20 percent for cereals, 15 percent for milk and 30 percent for beef and veal, are the way in this direction. The question of the price of pigmeat, which is already on the ground, has already been raised today. Last year he fell from about 25 S to 18 S per kg in bottomless. Mr Schwarzböck has stated here that the price would have caught about 10 percent, but he is still somewhere near 19.50 S or 19.60 S, about 20 pp. – that's just to relativize your statements. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On all these questions and unresolved problems, the agricultural policy of this Federal Government and this budget do not provide sufficient answers and no proposals for solutions. The loss of income of Austrian farmers will only be partially remunerated, and the result of this decline in income is that in agriculture and especially in rural areas, poverty continues to intensify and increase. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty in rural areas has become a social and social problem. You, Minister for Agriculture, have fully recognized this, because you write in your support report that more than 50 percent of those at risk of poverty live in small agricultural communities. And you also write that more than 30 percent of farmers are at risk of poverty. – The most affected by poverty is the Burgenland in front of the Styria, followed by Lower Austria. This development takes very little account of this budget, ladies and gentlemen, both in the agricultural and social spheres. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be mentioned that the employment potential is enormously high in rural areas. According to Wifo and also the former Vice-Chancellor Riegler, approximately 630 000 people are part-time or fully employed in agriculture and forestry. Riegler criticises and wonders that the National Action Plan on Employment of the Federal Government does not contain any proposals for mobilising these job opportunities in rural areas. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, if the income situation in rural areas continues to deteriorate, the enormous impact will be on the labour market situation that has already been stressed. The pressure on the labour market will increase radically, and the costs for additional unemployed will then all of us have to bear together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Agenda 2000 and the Easter enlargement therefore concern not only agriculture and rural families, but all of us. It will particularly affect women in rural areas. We liberals will try to prevent this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6797	Mrs Sophie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6821	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the 1999 estimates, 468 473 million schilling are planned for operations and infrastructure in order to maintain as many jobs as possible in agriculture. The consideration of the miners in the budget is very important, because they make a valuable contribution to the preservation of our cultural landscape through settlement in the higher locations. This is particularly important for a country like Austria, as we have a lot of miners. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On the current discussion of Agenda 2000, I would like to point out that this is a medium-term policy target of the Union, bringing key economic and structural reorientations and challenges. This also makes it clear that Europe is more than just the Union. However, in the distribution of agricultural funds, it will be necessary to ensure that, in the first place, the mining industry and small and medium-sized enterprises can be financially supported. [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] That is why, for us, Social Democrats will continue to call for the introduction of social staggering in all funding. [[Abg. Zweytick: Not social!]] It is also very important that the budget provides financial resources for quality improvement measures. In this context, I would like to mention the Spanish court riding school in Vienna and the Bundesstüt Piber in my district. In the Bundesstüt Piber, an average of 230 to 240 horses are bred and provided. Quality has top priority in both breeding and care. The Lipizzans are prepared for their performances in the Spanish court riding school, so to speak. Mr. Federal Minister! I have already pointed out in the last budget debate that staff should not be saved. From 1997 to the present, until May 1998, seven persons have been retired from this scheme by retirement. On average, 9.5 people are missing due to illness and holiday. The concern, precisely by non-retiring these posts, to care for – says: Care – the horses are very large. Although the work is done in the chord, after some time the quality remains on the track. The Piber Foundation celebrates its 200-year anniversary this year, so there are many preparations for a celebration. On the one hand, this results in a certain amount of increased work and financial additional effort, which will, on the other hand, be re-entered by revenue from tourism. That in Austria the Lipizzans have a high priority for tourism proves recent discussions in Italy and Slovenia, in which suddenly a claim to the origin of these horses is tried. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are very many ideas to be able to offer attractions for tourism activities, but this is also possible only if the necessary staff is available. Mr. Federal Minister! Even if budget resources are no longer available, I am convinced that it should be possible, through re-transmissions from other areas, the recruitment of at least two employees in the Piber Foundation, which you have promised me with 1. In June 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Not only am I waiting for your promises to be settled, but also the employees of this scaffolding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6868	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6889	High house! I should like to return to a subject which has already been the subject of today's debate on agriculture. Adolf Hitler has held the title "Führer und Reichkanzler": "Reich Chancellor" as head of state and "leader" as head of the National Socialist German Workers' Party. This organization has been recognized and condemned as a criminal organisation. The head of an organization recognized as criminal can therefore only be referred to as a criminal both by the historical and by the political side. If one makes it one's own place here to prove to a freely elected Member "Führer" again and again, one would like to move him to the vicinity of a criminal who is charged with the millions of deaths of innocent people. If a person compares such a procedure and such a "model" in a negative sense to the fact that the honourable Member concerned has any measures within his party, which one can quite discuss, then he lacks the sense of the historical and logical context and the real relation to things.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6923	Mrs Horngacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e6944	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to talk today about the future of our agriculture on Agenda 2000. After our agriculture has only partially digested the EU's adjustment, the Agenda 2000 will now come up with a much greater difficulty on our rural family farms, if it is decided in the way it is currently available. From the point of view of mountain agriculture – I am a representative of Tyrol – this agenda is deeply contradictory. On the one hand, our society wants a high standards of natural food production, and on the other hand, according to the agenda, producer prices are to be drastically reduced. Of course, the competitiveness of the EU agriculture in world markets is contrary to the objectives of multifunctional mountain farming. Our small-structured agriculture of the rural family farms maintains and preserves the habitat in the mountain area. The protection of avalanches, the protection against mural demolition and the beauty of our country and tourism also depend on the management. However, this is very much at risk with the proposals of Agenda 2000. It is certainly positive that investment promotions will no longer differ between full-time and ancillary farmers, that the milk quota system will be maintained. I do believe that the milk quota scheme is something to be maintained in the long term, because we need it to ensure the existence in the mountain area. I also hope that a funding of the base will be available to miners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the price reductions, especially in milk and livestock, are impermissible and absolutely rejected. Does the price of our products have to be reduced so far throughout Europe – with increasing prosperity of the population – that every liter of milk produced in the mountain area is already paid on it?- Oh, my God! We farmers do not want to be totally dependent on compensatory payments. Our trade unions, in order to take a different example, would never accept – in such a case there would be massive fights – the wage level in Austria would be reduced to that of low-cost countries. This is also related to the very different levels of wages, because in these countries, of course, people cannot spend as much on food as we do. On average, however, the Austrian spends only 16 percent of its income on food, of which 6 to 7 percent for processing; the farmer receives almost 10 percent. In 1955, the Austrian spent half of its income. This often results in the prosperity of our country; Economic goods can be purchased. However, in this situation – without necessity and without pressure from consumers – farmers can reduce prices is unbearable, and the reduction in intervention prices is a reduction in prices. That's a wrong way. It is a basic decision to want to introduce the pure market economy in these areas. Market economy without social or environmental approaches leads to great injustices in such uneven structures. The income of our miners last year amounted to 138 000 S per family worker. We want in our country a widespread wealth and just wage for work. But I fear a new wave of structural adaptations, which means: Retirement of farms that through centuries have been home to our peasant families. The consequences of such a development in the mountain area may not be apparent immediately, but probably no longer be remedied. It is based on an entire culture, a culture that has always focused on sustainability, soil fertility, the circular economy and the co-existence of life on stability. This, too, was a good thing for today's society. Minister! Your task in taking over the EU Presidency by Austria will be a very, very difficult one. I ask you to make every effort to keep price cuts as low as possible, and to ensure full compensation, without any shock, for farmers. We know, Minister – and this gives us hope – that you are a good negotiator. On Mr Barmüller's statement: Basic security is very interesting, would be a good thing, only: Agriculture is linked to the economy. We farmers want to operate, want fair prices for our products – and only for what we cannot get beyond that, compensation payments. But we want to be first and foremost active and economic farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7003	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7025	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am going briefly – and in the absence of Mr Ofner – to what he said earlier here. This is not supposed to be the case; [[Abg. May. Barmüller: He's talking to Krüger now!]] Mr Ofner will already know. Ladies and gentlemen! I can understand that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is currently concerned other than agriculture. Mr. Ofner – and all those who have listened to him: It is also not illegal to use the word "leader" after Adolf Hitler and after the knowledge of the still unimaginable dimensions of the crime: This word is also used in other contexts. It is just the question of what context is created, and the question of what is associated with it. I would like to say one thing to you: I have always tried in the past – and I would say that most of the members of this House have always tried to make a clear cut. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's not true!]] Only from your side does not answer. The behaviour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not criticised because it is a matter of any fundamental interference in the internal affairs of a club, but because you are constantly bringing this behaviour into this House and thus also determining how it works. It is a fact that this group... – If you let me speak, I would like to tell you, Mr Reichhold. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do you mean?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you do not let people speak out, I would like to stress what I now say to you, namely that in this group a very strong... – No, Mr Reichhold, I do not want to forbid you at all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you're gonna allow intermediate calls, aren't you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] I would like to invite you to reply once, and you may have an opportunity to do so in this debate. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm serious. I mean this not sarcastic and not polemic, but really, very seriously: I have the impression that in your group the principle of autocraticism is much more pronounced than in the other groups. It has been successful for you to place a person very strongly at the centre of each election poster – including as a guarantee of your principles – at every election. Only when it comes to complying with principles will you reduce political responsibility to the question: Does anyone have a share in a criminally prohibited course of action, and can they be proved guilty? I have said in the whole debate – and I think I have done it fairly – that there is no political group in this House in favour of anything wrong in a person. But the question of how to deal with it when this happens is very different from that of the other groups. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] I also told you – in so far as this oversigned comparison, which does not depend on crime, but probably on the understanding of political responsibility, seems very appropriate –: If it is only possible in your group to hear what is pleasing to hear what the claim for power does not question, then you will create easier conditions for injustices to happen, for illegalities to happen, and if they happen, for them not to be addressed and not to be clarified. I would also like to say to you that I have read it to you twice now and I would like to remind you again and again that you have changed your opinion in a very short time to the same committee of inquiry, which concerns the question of the murder of the Kurds. First of all, you said that it was all enormous, it had to be clarified that the President of the Federal Republic had to speak and answer. Then there is a party decision to support it in the election as a presidential candidate, and at one time the desire to set up a committee of inquiry is referred to as a plumbing maneuver. I ask you: How can a managing clubman give such different statements in a short time, and what does political responsibility in this group of yours mean? – I’m just asking you a question here, and I’d be really glad if anyone of you would still comment on it today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7123	I have just taken over the presidency, but I would ask you to go to the Agriculture chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7139	I come to the chapter on agriculture, Mr President. I have replicated the comments made by Mr Ofner, who has commented exclusively on this subject. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He didn't say anything about agriculture at all!]] Federal Minister! I would like to deal with you politically, in terms of content, also with what honourable Member Schwarzböck has said. Over the course of the banking series, dialogue and controversy are kept here: What does market economy mean? To what extent can we still make and want to do political design? How far does the dictatorship of the powerful participants, the corporations in these markets go? I am referring, for example, to the example of the use of genetic engineering in agriculture and food: I don't know any people who say quite massively: I want genetic engineering in my diet! There are a small number of people who say: I don't care, it won't be that bad! But there are a large number of people who explicitly say: We don't want that! The number of these people is well over three-quarters of the population – that's what every survey tells you. The question is as follows: Who's the market? Are we consumers? Are there some corporations? Are there some Commissioners in Brussels? Who's the market? Mr Schwarzböck will always say: Yes, people don't want genetic engineering in large numbers, but they don't want to pay more for the products either. – Now my answer is as follows: I think we're guessing wrong. I believe that the seemingly cheap yoghurt from the giant dairy farm is very expensive for us to stand up to the seemingly cheap cut from far-off continents. We pay the price, we pay only from other pots. We do not pay at the cash desk of the supermarket, there this product is a little cheaper. However, we are paying this price with the cost of accidents, with the cost of hospitalization, with the cost of a damaged and damaged landscape, with the costs, the democratic struggles, conflict with citizens' initiatives. We pay for schilling and grooving for it, it won't save anything. Only, the bill is another: The profits have an ever smaller number of very powerful ones who now believe to be able to say what market economy is and what people want to have. The losses are socialized, and then we talk about hospital cost deficits, drug costs explosions and environmental damage. We really need to do what we need to do, and – this is very important in a debate on agriculture – we need an ecological tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more thing about agriculture, because it is so important to me, namely on the issue of animal welfare: Mr Federal Minister, you know, I have never voted in favour of those votes, if there are any, who have said that the farmers are guilty of animal torture. I see that there is a lack of responsibility for dealing with animals in many areas, including in parts of agriculture, but also in other areas, in households, in circuses and in trade. However, injustice cannot justify another. You will have me everywhere at your side when it comes to reducing the suffering of animals and at the same time contributing to the environmental protection of small farmers. Austria would at present be in a happy position to occupy some key roles in this area, even at European level. I am surprised to see that we are appealing to Commissioner Fischler in the agricultural newspapers that my colleague Wabl is carrying with us. I would really like him, as an Austrian, to not allow us to appeal for so long from his home country, but to come to us more closely. I think it unbearable to continue with enormous animal suffering at the expense of small farmers and at the expense of consumers with billions of burden to animals. They know that long-haul transports of slaughter animals take place only because they are being promoted at billions. At the moment when these tax payments for animal torture are no longer paid out, this condition will end overnight. Then the farmers of the region have a chance again, because then these so far transported "schnitzel" will no longer be so cheap. We must abolish these subsidies for the transport of live animals. I therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want high-quality food, including animal food in the region, to be produced for the region. And we want it not to be wasteful for the price of animal suffering and ecological destruction. I put forward a second motion for a resolution on a subject which, fortunately, has become more and more people. Mrs. Horngacher! You know what it is about, we have often personally talked about it, namely the so-called EU processing premium, also called "herodes premium" in the media. Unfortunately, I am hearing that the use of this bad instrument is still not to be terminated, and the signs of this – and I assume that this will be proved very soon too – are that young calves from Austria are also included in this subsidy carousel. Federal Minister! But even if no Austrian animals are affected: I regard it as a European cultural disgrace, which is being carried out there. It is a system that is characterized by the unreasonable fact that one has begun to feed meat flour from sick animals to ruminants. First of all, the damage to British farmers has spread to Europe as a result of the loss of images. Consumers have been insecured, and now again the taxpayers have to pay for the continuation of this system, instead of getting out and returning to a reasonable and decent production of animal food. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I really ask you, and I also ask the colleagues in the EIA to work to ensure that there is no longer any EU budget that contains these insidious items. This premium must be abolished! I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7239	The two motions for resolutions on the abolition of the EU processing premium and on the abolition of EU subsidies for slaughter animal exports are properly filed and are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Karl Freund. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7267	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1999 agricultural budget, as well as the newly completed 40 billion package between the Federal Government and the Länder, has managed to give Austrian and EU farmers security and stability even in times of savings packages. In addition to the many things that have already been mentioned by my previous speakers, the fact is that in 1999 there will be another 6 billion schilling available for advice and further training and that the development of the rural road network will continue to be forced. All these measures contribute to further strengthening farmers' confidence in policy. The fact that prices are falling on the market when markets are saturated can have little to do with this policy. I am therefore incomprehensible that the need for compensatory payments to farmers is seriously doubted, even vehemently rejected, as can be heard several times from trade unions and also from workers' chambers. In this context, it is often overlooked that jobs are also available in rural areas and especially in rural households, but new ones are also being offered again and again. Especially in view of the high number of unemployed in Europe, which is very unfortunate, the creation and maintenance of jobs in all areas – and this also includes the agricultural sector – is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, billions are invested by Austrian farmers in the domestic economy. They are therefore also important boosters for other on-site industries. The high cost of operating resources, the strict environmental and production conditions would even have to double food prices without compensatory payments in order to maintain and guarantee agricultural livelihoods. In my opinion, therefore, the many criticisms of too high agricultural expenditure in the EU are unjustified. These, in part, false statements only destroy confidence and incite fear among the farmers concerned. Mrs Petrovic! Farmers too are animal lovers and prevent suffering from animals. That's not a question at all. We can well imagine supporting various requests in this direction, but I would like to stress that there is no "herodes premium" in Austria and that Agenda 2000 provides for the abolition of this "herodes premium" at EU level. So I mean, our Minister for Agriculture Molterer has always given a clear position, and of course he will also represent it in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Last week, in Upper Austria, the Agriculture Master Letters were awarded by our highly esteemed Mr. Landeshuptmann, Dr. Josef Pühringer. In 1998 more than 100 Masters' and Masters' Letters were handed over. It is precisely this that I believe the will for the future and the optimism that the young generation assumes in the agricultural sector. The Master's Letter is evidence of a solid basis for technical and general education. However, the main value is that this training will enable us to form competent and dynamic farmers for the future. We are very proud of our agricultural schools, the teachers do excellent work there and impart excellent knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is also important that future generations of farmers are not afraid of change, that they identify themselves with rural agriculture, and that they self-confidently sell their products on the market. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The upcoming major changes also offer opportunities to deal with strength, creativity and innovation. We of the Austrian People's Party will continue to act massively for the farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 1999 agricultural budget brings stability and security to farmers. This is the result of hard and consistent work for farmers and, in the end, a success for our Minister for Agriculture Molterer, whom I would like to express very much thanks from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7342	The next speaker is Mr Willi Sauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has published a brochure containing measures for agriculture and forestry for 1999. One of these measures is the improvement of quality in animal husbandry. The following is noted: Animal production is the most important industry within Austrian agriculture. Measures to improve hygiene and quality as well as increase productivity in the livestock sector should therefore be a key priority in 1999. – It is precisely these measures that Austrian agriculture needs in animal production. I would particularly like to address milk production and the associated effects associated with the improvement of production on the one hand and with the conservation of the cultural landscape on the other. Milk production and cattle farming are two things that take place mainly in the mountain regions of Austria and in the Greenland regions. These regions, in particular, need intensive care because tourism is mostly of great importance. A well-kept landscape, a well-kept mountain landscape and a well-kept green landscape are prerequisites for tourism. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! No guest would visit our country if he found an unspoiled landscape. No guest would want to recover in our regions and feel comfortable if agriculture did not do a substantial part of this landscape care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, Agenda 2000 may have brought some uncertainty to our farmers in some areas, because, on the basis of a Agenda 2000 proposal, intervention prices should be reduced, which would be a major disadvantage for this sector of production. One important aspect, and I would like to say this to you, Mr Federal Minister, for the negotiations, is that the Austrian dairy-producing farmers, first of all, would like to insist on the quota system and also, because it guarantees production, and secondly, they want to accept the quotas which the EU has promised us in this regard. The cow premium is an essential part of this sector of production; not only the bull premiums, but also the calcin premiums. Animal health also plays a major role. In our country there is a high standard of animal health, and we also want to maintain it. It is therefore necessary that, in the sense of animal health, as is already the case in other countries in the European Union, an animal health service be set up in order not only to relieve farmers of the costs but also to guarantee producers. Mr. Federal Minister! The EU Presidency of Austria is certainly a challenge; the EU Presidency However, Austria is also an opportunity to take appropriate measures and to negotiate away the uncertainty that exists in some areas, particularly in connection with Agenda 2000.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7421	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled and approved for the negotiations by Mrs Petrovic, friends on the abolition of the EU 'herodes premium', has been withdrawn. It will therefore not be voted. The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7448	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is so incomprehensible to me just before the end of the debate that, if I have understood it correctly, the Greens will withdraw their request, which we have expected before, namely a four-party request for the abolition of the "herodes premium" which I am about to make. I think it is one of the first commandments in European and worldwide animal welfare that Parliament is taking action in this regard. It has been your demand for years, and I therefore do not understand that you are withdrawing it from the Greens. [[Abg. Leikam: You're on it!]] The motion for a resolution will nevertheless be tabled, and I can now bring it to the fore: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is an important step towards the people who in this country call themselves an animal protectionist and also engage accordingly. It is, however, particularly in the sense of a land-based agriculture, where livestock farming is carried out, and of course also in the interest of those persons who live on these animals. Only a proper way of dealing with the animals ultimately guarantees the survival of these people in our country. And anyone who assumes he can survive better in the future if he tortures animals has long been part of an extinct genus. I believe that this request will not only find the full support here in the house, but it will be recognized by people throughout Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My conclusion at the end of this debate is as follows: Disadvantaged areas, comprehensive management and conservation of the cultural landscape must remain important topics in the future! Ladies and gentlemen! Our family policy is successful with Martin Bartenstein, and successful for our rural families today and tomorrow is our policy with Willi Molterer. Thank you, Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I want to focus on a few things: Mr. Andreas Wabl, there have been hot discussions about the pig market in the last few days, and you have had an opportunity to give me a little more information. But I can tell you one thing: If you had gone to this event, you'd have gotten cold feet! You would have gotten yourself particularly cold feet because you Greens are demanding a federal animal welfare law, which provides for the demands that will in the future give farmers great limitations and drive them safely into ruin. I'm just thinking about the ban on columning in the masts. These farmers in particular now have quite different problems. But we no longer need to discuss the costs of this animal welfare law, because it is practically impossible to implement in the present situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] The situation on the market, and above all the price, is a struggle – I give you the right, you have addressed the subject – against the USA, but also a struggle of farmers against factories, a struggle against industry, a fight of quality against fast food and a fight of health against the environment. This fight will not be over until society and people say what they want not only to this country, but Europe and worldwide. Being a farmer is not a spectacular win, nor a lottery. In order to be able to exist as a farmer in the future, one must have a strong will and really want it. But it depends in particular on whether the people who are not farmers understand this profession. A framework for the potential of the government parties is far from complete. Your attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the "F", represents images without a frame: very sad, unclear, colourless, but also unstoppable. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say something about the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union. I know the situation very well in the border, as a South Styria. In this context, it must be said quite clearly. First: It takes time, it can't happen tomorrow, and it's a chance. Secondly, There is no question that there must, of course, be transitional periods, especially from the point of view of agriculture. And thirdly, We all know, possibly years before: We all have the responsibility to bear if we fail here. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We will not gain credibility over the Austrian population, with prevention polemics, which is being operated here in Parliament, but also outside. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I believe that most of the Members of this House are very aware of what is happening to us. The chance is that we will have enough time. We must always take a close look at the situation in the other countries. That is what we must vote for, including within the framework of this agenda, which is an essential core area and factor. In terms of the agenda, we must not only see the negative sides, but also the opportunities it offers. Finally, I should like to thank Mr Willi Molterer for his commitment, but also for his staff. The 1999 budget certainly gives rise to optimism in the future for the people and farmers in our country. I would like to thank the Minister for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7540	After I announced that Mr Petrovic's request had been withdrawn, I received a request from Mr Petrovic, Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Mag. Barmüller on the abolition of EU processing premiums. He is sufficiently subscribed and under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Reichhold. You still have 9 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7564	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Zweytick, you spoke earlier about prevention policy in the direction of the liberals. I would like to remind you that we do not have the majority here and can therefore not prevent anything, but we are asking for answers, and you have not given us any answers today. They've all remained guilty to us. For example, none of the speakers, including the Minister himself, have been able to answer the question of VAT rate adjustment. It has been promised to farmers – Mr President Schwarzböck, you know – before accession to the EU, and it has not been regulated to date, which provides farmers with more losses per year than the forecast losses due to Agenda 2000. These are the questions that interest the farmers today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another question in this regard is that of diesel reimbursement, which has been discussed for a long time. If someone has 50 000 s net of income, I also understand today's statement by Mr Jakob Auer, who thought that 15 000 s were not much and that this would lose a larger farmer with a pigry. But for the farmers there are also 10 000 S and 15 000 S a lot of money. But this is only a small part of a mosaic of many burdens that Austrian farmers have to take to it today, but not because there is the European Union, but because the government does not do its homework. That is exactly what we are calling for here, Mr Zweytick. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But leave it. I should like to say the following: In my opinion, the agricultural debate is overshadowed by the statements of the speaker of the ÖVP Farmers' Federation here in this House. Member of the European Parliament, Mr Schwarzenberger. If you try a term from the Nazi era, which represents the symbol of humane crimes, for a criminal personality, and this time and again – not even, but several times! – in the direction of our party observer, I believe that you have ignored all the appeals that the Presidents of this House have made to the House as a consequence of the debate last week. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP.]] I appeal to you if you criticize this style: Do not run through the house with the raised index finger, but apply to yourself other new standards! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mrs Petrovic! If you're worried about our style here, that's your thing. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] Mr Klobmann Khol, President-in-Office of the Council. - (NL) Mr Klubobmann Khol, I should like to thank you for your support. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not him yet!]] Mrs Petrovic! If you're worried about our style, I'd also ask you to check your own statements. You said here last week in the direction of our party chairman – and I noticed that, I wrote: That's where the spiritual godfather of the Gauners, Ganovers and Criminals sits. Have you considered what this statement means that you also have all the Members who are here...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7643	Mr Reichhold! I asked Mrs Petrovic, after three or four minutes, to come to the chapter on agriculture, after I took over the presidency and did not follow the previous debate. You have been speaking for three and a half minutes now, and I ask you now to go to the Agriculture chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7658	Mr President. You must already allow me to at least respond to criticism, and I have done so. I believe, Mrs Petrovic, that you already have to work on yourself if you are trying to run around here in this House as an moral authority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now back to the chapter on agriculture. You have remained guilty today, as has been said, of many questions, Mr Molterer. I believe that it would be your job now to improve the competitive conditions of Austrian farmers by means of many measures at national level. I am of the opinion that it is not a matter of establishing new bureaucracies which suffers from the peasantry. I mean here the really strict hygiene regulations, which go beyond the EU regulations, or the animal health services, which are undoubtedly an important matter, but which will ultimately cost farmers a lot of money, or the extensive labelling rules, which will, of course, also bring great disadvantages to Austrian farmers, because they are very expensive. I would like to draw another point that was raised to me by the Federal Association of Machine Rings. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Neighborhood aid is as old as the peasantry itself. It would not be understandable if such a regulation by the Minister of Finance threatened this important establishment of farmers. This would mean a weakening of the rural area, which is greatly strengthened by the work of the machine rings and the associated social assistance facilities. I am therefore in favour – and I see myself as one of the demands of the Federal Association of Machine Rings – of the fact that the core area of neighbourhood assistance and social assistance has to be removed from this package regulation. And this must be enforced within the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my speech, I would also like to briefly address the question of the renovation of the Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein in Schleswig. We have already held the debate on this, Mr Schwarzenberger. These are two projects. One project is officially already financed and is also supported by us. The other project concerns the renovation of the actual memory of Hans Kudlich, the probably greatest son our peasantry has ever produced. He has freed 14 million farmers from slavery. I therefore believe that it is probably the duty of this House, but also of the Minister himself, to enable the renovation of this building to take place with financial support. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I make a request today, which provides for Mr Molterer to make 500 000 S available from the appropriations for representation expenditure to be reorganised, I believe that this is not too much required in view of the historical achievements of Hans Kudlich. Mr Federal Minister, you have done a total of 3.2 million schilling in representation expenditure in recent years alone. They are not very squeezy either, when it comes to switching ads into various newspapers – that has already been shown today. I do not accept the argument that: You only want to convince consumers, Mr. Federal Minister: Rather, these ads serve primarily your personal profiling. Yes, further. They also try to finance party advance organisations with these ads. Now the "Farmsbundler", the "Oberösterreichische Landwirtschaftszeitung", the "General Farmers' News" – all ÖVP advance organisations – receive relatively significant amounts from this pot. I therefore believe that it would be time to use some of it to renovate the kudlich-wart. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As it has now become known that a four-story coalition has apparently emerged, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution on the abolition of the EU processing premium, the "herodes premium":
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7784	The motion for a resolution (Doc. Reichhold, Wenitsch, Koller, Dr. Salzl, Aumayr regarding Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein is properly signed and under negotiation. Mr Reichhold, with regard to the second request, I would like to ask you: Can I see that the motion for a resolution is the same as the four-party motion for a resolution and the point and the addition? If that is the case, I refer to cases of prejudice from earlier votes: If a request with an already voted request is completely identifiable, then we have not voted again, because we have meant that it is impossible for the National Council to take two different decisions on the same subject. That is to say, this request would then have been taken into account in the decision on the main word-identical request. You're clear about this? - He's considered to be brought in. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But he's considered to be brought in?]] Mr Zweytick spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time is limited to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7817	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to withdraw my misguided statement that the Greens had withdrawn from the four-party proposal for the abolition of the "herodic premium". I don't understand. The greens are of course with...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7832	Please make a correction with a case-law and a rebuttal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7848	I would like to correct the fact that Mr Reichhold said that I had accused him in my speech of preventing policy. - That's not true! It is true, rather, that I regret the prevention of the polemics of your group.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e7884	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I do not have a wish by the rapporteur for a final word. We therefore come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapter 60 of the Federal estimates and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 1100 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this advisory group of the Federal Government proposal to give a sign. I note that this part of the 1999 Financial Act was adopted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled should be taken at once. Is there any objection? - It won't be raised. Then we'll do that. Firstly, we are voting on Mrs Aumayr's motion for a resolution on tax relief for Austrian farmers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution on the abandonment of the use of genetic engineering as a minimum criterion for participation in ÖPUL II. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request by Mr Wabl to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic on the abolition of EU subsidies for slaughter animal exports. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This request does not take place in the majority of cases. He's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petrovic, Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Gradwelt, Mr Mag. Barmüller and comrades concerning the abolition of the EU processing premium ("herodes premium"). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. . I note that this request was unanimously adopted. (E 124.) I would also like to say that the motion for a resolution, which has also been tabled, has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Reichhold, who is word-identifiable with this request, was properly signed and was also under negotiation, with the unanimous adoption of the request just agreed. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning Kudlich-Warte in Lobenstein. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution. Reichhold to enter a sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. In this way, this advisory group, together with the motions for resolutions, is in agreement and is done. Advisory Group V Chapter 30: Justice (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8018	We shall proceed to the hearing of the Advisory Group V: Justice. I welcome the Minister of State. There is no need for reporting. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8049	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I used to explain a decade ago that everything was a good company. I would like to discuss in my current statements how it is currently the eye of the viewer. It is often complained that she is working too slowly. This is actually true in individual areas. If the person concerned has to wait for a fee until he receives a discharge, he can sometimes only feel sorry for him. To this end, one of the following applies: "Whoever gives fast gives twice!" Justice doesn't always succeed. I would, however, warn against taking too much into account the speed of doing things and to sacrifice one or the other of them. I mean – I am based on four decades of continuing professional experience in this sector – that, although every person concerned and every representative of a person concerned is pleased when he gets a quick decision in the matter concerning him, it is still more important for everyone to have a fair decision. So it is less about the rapid completion of things! Ladies and gentlemen! What must, in particular, and in all circumstances as far as possible, be ensured is the so-called individual case-law. The Court of Justice must decide, even if it sometimes does not go as quickly as we wish. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] An example from the history of the creation of the value-limiting novels, which this House did not adopt for too long: The draft in this respect provided for a number of cases of a lack of evidence if they are not already claimed at a very early stage of the process in the civil process. Not least the resistance of the liberals has failed this part of the project. I am glad that this has happened. For I hardly felt it tolerable, if only to get things over the stage more quickly, would we be prepared to remove ourselves from the material truth so far that a particular proposal of evidence which cannot be put at a stage of the procedure, in which one may not at all know whether it will be essential, can no longer be put. In this context – and beyond – my criticism of the fact that in the last few months and years, as I see things, justice is increasingly directed towards itself, to its own system and to what they and its employees mean, rather than to the needs of the citizens who turn to justice or to whom justice is directed and who depend on the functioning of justice. One increasingly listens to the wishes of individual exponents of the apparatus and to what is expressed by other resorts, including from the apparatus, such as the interior, to ideas and wishes to justice, and much less to the legitimate wishes that the citizens who need justice have regarding their functioning and functioning. I would like to show this again on the basis of the value-limiting novels. There has been a system of appeals introduced for years, which has regulated the proceedings until the Supreme Court. All those who had to do with it were satisfied with this – as far as one can even talk about satisfaction in the appeal. Of course, there have been restrictions, because disappointments have been experienced over and over again, as one often falls on the nose with legal remedies, which one believes must succeed. But all in all, it was a sophisticated, already proven system! This system has been changed, not because anything had not worked, not because the right-seeing people had complained, no, but because employees of the Supreme Court – I do not want to rule out whether they have been entitled or not – have taken the view that they are overburdened and they cannot be expected to continue to operate as before. For this reason, the appeal possibility of the Supreme Court has been largely reduced by raising from 50 000 S to 260 000 S and thus, perhaps, more easily understandable to the outsider, the lower limit for the dispute value – among which the Supreme Court cannot be called at all – to 260 000 S, which is no longer accessible to the "small" process leader. This did not happen because something did not work, but because in the system itself, in the interests of employees, one had the need for a change. I think this way is a matter of concern. Justice is a very large and extremely important service business. In a democracy, as we proudly recognize it as ours, a service company has to focus on the needs of the citizens. If, therefore, the impression arises that, as a result of a functioning judicial remedy system, employees may be overly burdened by an increase in the number of attacks from year to year, then one must find another way to counter this – in my opinion, by an additional Senate, if there are many already, there has been a sophisticated and functioning system in Austria – and should not simply limit the possibility of calling. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This path seems worrying to me. The system is sufficient for itself. The system is increasingly inclined to control itself, but it is also removed from the individual case-law I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks as the supreme command of every justice, which wants to take itself seriously and which wants to be taken seriously. I now come to criminal law from these civil problems, which also apply to criminal law, and make a fundamental consideration. The so-called clients of criminal justice are very different personalities. There are dangerous culprits, x-time-returned property perpetrators and x-time-returned perpetrators against body and life – mostly more against body than against life – who, essentially with the first perpetrators, with the random perpetrators, with those who – again put under quotation marks – "has once something happened" over a comb. I know that the results of the criminal proceedings on this subject are different and, of course, they must also be, but only the fact that everything takes place in the same framework, on the same track and with the same consequences, even though it has been completed, is really not acceptable and is also staggering the structures of justice. From the same Senate today, the same law and the result of the same judicial institution – always largely modo – are initially treated as a thirty-fold-returned possessor, then a person is treated with a negligent Krida and then a ten-fold-returned violent offender, one is presented in handcuffs, the other, though without handcuffs, but standing in front of the same court, shudders at fear – I imitate all this very strongly – and the next comes back into handcuffs. Even if a single or random offender is once sentenced to an absolute punishment, he is basically sitting in the same "hooks" as the others – with all the problems that come out of it, with all the risks which, unfortunately, young perpetrators of male sex, as we know, carry in prison with regard to drugs, but also in other respects, namely those of physical integrity. This is an intolerable state! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the years, there have been repeated attempts to repair – a few years ago, I still muttered over the fact that there is the annual criminal law reform, and we have now arrived at two annual criminal law reforms. However, all these attempts cannot conceal the fact that the urgent need for a generous redesign of the legal matter has not even been achieved. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I should like to make one more point of the problem of negligent Krida, as it seems to me particularly symptomatic. – By the courts, i.e. from that level where robbers are also sentenced, in 2,000 or more cases a year, people who have suffered shipwreck in business life are sentenced. As a rule, everything except what they have on their bodies has already been auctioned, they have suffered losses and will have to deliver to the Executive until their end of life everything they almost deserve. But then they are still in court. In sintering processes, which never go without one or two experts who cost at least 50 000 S, but sometimes 500 000 S of fees – and which are always paid by the state because the costs of the convict are inconceivable – these people, depending on the court's mood, receive a penalty between three and four months. These procedures block the structures of criminal justice, as they stand before the same court in the same room and are dealt with in principle under the same law as the "famous" robbers – albeit in accordance with other provisions of the same court. I know one does not stand in front of the jury and the other, but it is basically the same, only with appropriate facets. And as long as justice is not prepared to make a fundamental change on this issue, we will stay where we are today. I am already at the end of my remarks. It will remain that in criminal justice we do not differ enough, that on the one hand, we treat the real criminality too little energetic, too little sustainable and unsatisfying for the citizen, so that the impression arises that one or another is actually being taken up by velvet gloves, and that this is at the expense of safety, and on the other hand, there are those who ask whether they belong at all to court or not, perhaps, before the commercial authority or similar bodies; with them, much too radical and far too strict is handled. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to raise these basic ideas when it comes to whether the judicial system is still a "good company" today. It is my conviction that it is it, but it leaves desires open. These wishes become more evident from year to year, and we all have to work together on their fulfillment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8169	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8190	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Budget chapter Justice... [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Who do you mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Also the colleague inside!]] Ladies and gentlemen too! I'm sorry. It is of course natural for me not to let the ladies, who are currently very well represented in numbers, go unanswered. [[Abg. May. Stoisits and Abg. Dr Gredler: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Visitors inside!]] And of course the visitors too! There are also visitors. [[Abg. Steibl: Don't let yourself be confused!]] But now away from the patch to the budget chapter Justice: Both in the Committee and in the first contribution to the debate, the chapter on justice was not so much debated as a matter of law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Which committee? There's no one left! There's no one here today! That's the budget talk from the previous year!]] As the figures are not in the foreground, I conclude that there is a large consensus on the distribution of funds, not least with the officials concerned, because I am confident that the compromise reached in the salary negotiations will be accepted. The fact that everything is in order for the judicial staff – or even in the judicial system as a whole – has not only already been carried out by Mr Ofner, but I also have a general satisfaction, not only internally, but also with the population. A very serious indication that officials are also satisfied with the basic distribution of funds proves a survey by the Ministry of Finance that officials in district courts are "satisfied" or "very satisfied". It is not natural for employees to be so satisfied with their jobs as a matter of principle. It was also a pleasure that, in the Committee's debate this time, each group referred to the subject of'sacrifice protection'. I believe that this will show a change in justice policy: Victim protection is now all groups in the High In the meantime, house has become a real concern. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just nothing happens!]] Something's going on, Dr. Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What?]] I would like to thank the Minister of Justice and the Bar Association for the joint initiative on free and confidential victim advice in the District Courts. This improved information rail has been newly established to enable victims to obtain information about their rights and opportunities on a professionally excellent and above all locally well-established route. It is a first big step. Let me also remind you, however, that the compensation of victims of crime is not, in my view, sufficiently regulated by law. We have the crime victim law, which provides subsidiary compensation for injuries committed intentionally, if there is no claim under the ASVG. We have the § 373a Criminal Procedure, in which the advance of the Federal Government for compensation payments is regulated in the case of a private party's claim. Minister! Both provisions are not sufficient. For, according to the VOG, there is no claim for compensation in the event of gross negligence, there is no claim to adequate therapy for sexual or violent offences – especially no psychotherapist treatment – and there is no claim according to VOG in the event of certain property damage – I am thinking of a broken bite, broken glasses or perhaps, one could think about vital household councillor. In this context, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In February 1998, you, Minister, asked to prepare this novel for the VOG as soon as possible. In that weekly magazine, which appears on Wednesday, Minister Michalek was praised as a great courageous reformer. In the competition paper, which appears on Saturday, justice policy has been deflated because nothing goes on and everyone is on the brake. The truth lies with these two leaves surely in the middle! .. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So no reforms!]] As President of the Committee on Justice, I am personally satisfied with the pace of reform in the field of justice policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Great reforms have to be discussed widely and intensively; we have done so in the case of rental and insolvency law, in the case of noise attack and grid arrest, in the law against violence and all the other laws I do not wish to list. It is good that no laws on appeal are produced in the Committee on Justice and, generally, no law on the matter will be "shot out of the hustle and bustle". Because major reform projects require a scientifically supported but also a politically questionable discussion and preparation. A political debate is particularly necessary if the planned measures, such as the new criminal procedure or the out-of-court settlement, bring about a paradigm change. The political question must also be asked, if the reforms change basic principles, such as the ATA's indictment of the ATA by replacing it in the direction of a division or even the withdrawal of the indictment. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: When do you start questioning?]] Please? I didn't understand you. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: When do you start questioning so you can at least give us an answer?]] Mrs. Colleague! If you are intellectually unable to see a suggestive question as a partial answer, I am so sorry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Rhethorical, not suggestive!]] I ask the question simply, so that you too can understand it, because I very much question it if there are to be huge shifts in power among the institutions involved, such as in the planned reform in favour of the prosecutors, after which the prosecutors are to gain more competence both in ATA and in the preliminary proceedings. . We believe that, without internal effective control and without clear rules on the right of directions, the unilateral power of an institution cannot be considered to be balanced. As far as the position of prosecutors is concerned, I would like to introduce the Italian model into the debate. We need to discuss to what extent this might be a possible model for us through the success of the fight against crime in Italy. However, all the reform projects must also be decided after an in-depth discussion. The new right of divorce, the right of marriage, the right of family and childhood, or the right of sexual punishment, as well as the Krida-Strafrecht, tailor-made by Mr. Ofner, and the right of takeover, are – to name only a few – matters that we can decide during this legislative period. This also applies to the period of the EU Presidency. For I assume that judicial policy will not rest during the EU Presidency in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8391	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 14 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. President of the Committee on Justice! Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dobar then!]] Dobar then, gospodin Khol! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, 14 minutes of speaking time left me with my fellow Members who spoke in the previous debates. In general, I would like to suggest that the issue of justice in the budget debates should not always be the third and last item on the agenda, which has been so for many years, and I never have enough time. [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] Perhaps this group could be the first to be on the agenda, then I could revancate for the past few years. Today I have to take a very short look, and I do not have much opportunity to comment on the statements made by previous speakers. I would like to start by reading to you a motion for a resolution and asking you to think about it and possibly agree to it. Keywords: Causa Rosenstingl, Causa Baukartell: We discussed this yesterday in the debate on the internal budget. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Have you discussed with yourself?]] I have pointed out that there is a great need for action in connection with human resources at the economic police. That is not to say that the ladies and gentlemen who work there do not do absolutely excellent work – there are only too few, as is now shown in the many jobs they unfortunately have. The same applies – and therefore I address the Federal Minister – also to the public prosecutors. And my request and my suggestion to increase the number of officials – in this case the prosecutors – with specialised expertise in the field of economic crime or business, because this is necessary. The current cases show it too. I shall now read the following motion for a resolution so that I will not be short of time later, Mr President: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is my first request and suggestion due to numerous current events. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now some remarks are not so much on the actual budget, on the money and on the figures, but on the pace of judicial policy, on what reforms are needed and at what pace they have been and will be taken. I was very impressed when Mrs. Dr. Fekter, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, listed the subject areas here. Excuse me, Mrs Colleague, but I have only thought of two who have actually fallen into your era with regard to the regulation. One is the law against violence in the family. - Thank you for that. We have also agreed to this, because this is a good law, as is now shown in practice. The opposite – less thanks – applies to the second area, namely noise attack and grid arrest. I still think this is a fundamental right disaster. And everything there is in the indices of such regulations confirms to me – not least the discussion in Germany – that we have gone the wrong way. I hope I will have an opportunity to prove that too. – But with that, Madam President, there is also a break, a closing. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Rental law? Copyright?]] Next year is elections. When do you want to act, how do you want to act? – What I perceive from your work is that you have been going into the wind shadows of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs several times and have not been able to profile yourself in terms of content, but have emerged in contrasts with him in the public. Let us be glad that the Federal Minister and the Federal Ministry of Justice are now those who at least make demands! I remember times when it was different. In times of – now I almost wanted to say "blessed" – Chairman of the Justice Committee Dr. Graff specifically I have fought some strains with him. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He enjoys best health!]] He did not specifically treat us ladies in the Committee on Justice. Nevertheless, there was discussion, there was progress, although not always with our agreement. However, I would like to point out the following – this is also true of Mr Ofner: Traditionally – my feeling and my memory – four-fifths of all the laws discussed in the judicial committee in the last eight years, since I was here, have been unanimously decided – with very small exceptions, with noise attack and grid detection being essential points of discussion. I miss that now. What I wish for is the proverbial pace: to give a little gas so that something can finally happen. The words of Mrs President-in-Office of the Justice Committee have meant the opposite to me. Federal Minister! A few words on your suggestions. I am often pleased when you make proposals – only as a keyword: the proposals made by the Ministry on divorce reform – and you have also noted my respect for the great stability – so far – which you show. The patriarchal counterwind blows your face as well. I assume, however, that you do not turn around and change your mind. I think that what has so far been put forward on proposals is not only to be taken seriously, but really to be a decisive judicial progress, it would be a law. Some may not seem to be a big thing, but I believe that it is very important guidelines for future development that the division of tasks in marriage is regulated differently – that is essentially something that is essentially linked to what was started in the great reform years of the 1970s when there were the first major substantial changes – but also the question of maintaining divorce. It is widely known that in the past I have taken a massive stand for the abolition of the principle of indebtedness – I will do so in the future – and I consider your proposals to be an important step in terms of indebtedness, for example because of child rearing. I hope it's you now that there's gas. I believe that the need-oriented maintenance is something that really applies to the protection of the individual and that this hypocritical discussion leads to the protection of institutions where people should be protected. That's the trend I've just made at the ÖVP. If there are proposals from the economic flaw of the weaker partners in relations, in which case in marriage lead away – usually the woman, we know, that is why it is a big concern of women – and this economic flaw is then tried to sell as "protection of the family", then, ladies and gentlemen, this really speaks for itself. At any rate, there is no agreement on this, and we will not get tired of promoting the complete abolition of the principle of indebtedness, which I consider to be a future model. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few words on a new chapter, which also belongs to this complex – keyword: common care. This affects me emotionally – also because I am a woman and especially women are affected. But when it comes to the common care, my patience in this whole discussion has long ended. For, ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself to those who take care of the common care, always whether they have considered how such things are going in reality. Experience shows that only those parents who, due to their own consistency and their sense of responsibility to their children, have to consider the human quality of a common care of their children, should be considered in order to enjoy such an instrument. But they don't need it! They didn't need it in the past, and they won't need it in the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Perfuss: Very correct!]] It is therefore true that for those who have already done so in the past or despite divorce, this is absolutely meaningless for the good of their children. But, ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not have all these qualities, it is also meaningless, for they will never be able to enjoy this scheme anyway! – Now I wonder: Who are you doing that for? Who do you think it's for? I do not want to go back to the President of the Committee on Justice. We could have our own discussion about this, which will certainly still be here. For all these reasons, and above all for the reason – and I am now speaking as a woman again – that this legal instrument, perhaps or hopefully never implemented in reality, is always used by divorced men in relation to their divorced women, creating a new instrument of grumbling, I am passionate about this newly created legal institution. And I think that in this case the legislator would really be well advised if he left it with the cornerstones of the family law reform of the 1970s. Not all that is old is bad in this case. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least: It is my concern to note the following: Last Sunday, the legendary "press hour" Dr. Haider took place against editor-in-chief Worm, in the context of whom there was accusations to a colleague here in our House. It is my concern to say here what great disappointment I feel – this is not what Mr. Federal Minister has to say, but perhaps someone else hears me – from the law firm. I do not understand to this day why the Austrian solicitorship can do so, why the lawyers – I believe that 4,000 are all over Austria – do not put their backs on the backs and cheer up in this attack on the rule of law. I am not a lawyer, and therefore I am also free from suspicion of speaking on my own. But that is a real disappointment for me as a Green Judge. I have always had very good contacts, good cooperation, work and information on the part of the Austrian solicitorship, but there she has really disqualified herself. This is something that has nothing to do with group membership, but I really believe that – and now I miss a word from Dr. Ofner, who is a lawyer himself – is a low point, which shows just how very obviously strange party politics – or I don't know which interests – are in the foreground, at least not interests of the stand. – Mr Minister, perhaps you have the opportunity to inform the High Lords of the solicitorship on an occasion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8552	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Before that, I would like to say that the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member may be put to the vote. Stoisits concerning the increase in the staff of the prosecutors is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8574	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only one sentence on what Mr Stoisits said last here. I don't want to speak for the Bar or for the Office, but I can say the following: This incident has, of course, been a massive attack against the free attorneyship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I respect and accept that there are certain concerns about further heating the debate. However, I think it should be possible to come to a kind of solidarity with Mr Fuhrmann at least here in the board of lawyers – not with Mr Fuhrmann, but quite simply because the question is: How do we deal with the free lawyer? How do we deal with what is ultimately one of the guaranteers for democracy? How do we deal with our concept of democracy? It's right: Today, a colleague has already spoken here and has found no words on it. Perhaps Mr Krüger will say something about this because the situation is almost unbearable. I am pleased to hear today that the debate on justice will continue during the time of the EU Presidency, because it is simply and simply not a matter of relinquishing the many but very burning problems and issues which are currently on the agenda. Mr Fekter, you have listed some of the legislative proposals that can in any case be clarified at this time. You have said that there is a need for an in-depth discussion. I believe that the question of family reform should be included, in the final analysis, in the preliminary procedure and in particular the division. In fact, there is, of course, a need for a deep scientific discussion, but I can point out that a great deal has already been done. We have in itself concepts, coherent, logical arguments, and it is ultimately a question of value whether one or the other wants to do so. I would particularly like to highlight the division which has already been addressed several times, because it is my heart and because it is quite simply a significant step towards further improvement in the quality of justice policy and thus of justice as a whole. It was simple and simply incorrect, if temporary – not today, but in pre-discussions – the argument has been that it requires victim protection to take differentiating measures. It is precisely in the sense of victim protection to deal with whether it should be possible for the State to react to criminal injustice in the context of its response not only to be punished/unconditional or to be fined/unconditional, to react with instructions, but also to allow judges to respond with a broader instrument to the respective complexity of an individual case. This instrument represents the division, which is because it is more and more taken into account, which has also arisen in the relationship of victims and perpetrators of problems. Consider the ATA, the extrajudicial case-law: There are experiences in the framework of the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, according to which a success rate of more than 85 percent in ATA cases has already been recorded since 1987. There are also attempts to enforce the extrajudicial compensation in adult criminal law. There is a lower but still 70 percent success rate. What does that mean in the end? – It means dealing with whether in the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim there is another, a more sensible way to enable what is necessary, namely to keep the perpetrator from doing something like this in the future, and to help the victim on the other hand. It is important that not only the peuniary side is taken into account, so that the victim receives money, but also that the emotional element is brought in – that is one of the arguments from the protection of the victim – by trying to work out the victim-cultivater relationship emotionally through contacts. This is a significant improvement in the state's potential for action in the context of the response to crimes that we want to enforce under all circumstances. I therefore believe that we should not miss it either because of the Presidency in the EU, because we are taking a decisive step forward. - That's the one thing. The second matter concerns family law. Here too, the debate has progressed relatively far. The debate on whether or not adultery should now be regarded as an absolute ground for divorce is not quite clear to me in that it is simply a question of sense whether a judge should be given an increased possibility of the spectrum of judgments. Our project is that adultery should no longer be treated as an absolute ground for divorce, but of course it is considered to be a ground for divorce, so that at the end of the trial the judge actually has to make a decision because of the entire family picture, the whole development which he offers. And logically, this can only be a progress towards objectivity. Therefore, from a logical point of view, this most controversial point of view is also to be clarified quite clearly. On the question of the value-limiting novels: Mr Ofner said critically that the new regulation with regard to the revision and restriction could mean an impairment of the rule of law. I would just like to say the following very briefly: It's a new regulation, that's quite clear. On the other hand, it is also legitimate to ask whether it is essential that the rule of law should be determined by the fact that everyone must necessarily go to the Supreme Court because the subordinate courts do not really guarantee legal protection. I think there are overland dishes that act profoundly. There are overland courts, of which it is quite possible to assume that, on their part, there is also a Judicatur, which cannot be described as affecting the citizens of that country, just as it has come about. There may also be decisions that are controversial on this side. But of course there is also the higher court jurisdiction which continues to have its position. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: An objective call: There are four different Supreme Courts and no roof over them, that is, that can develop apart!]] It is true, Mr President, that there is still an obsessive jurisdiction which, of course, on the one hand constitutes a corrective in the material discussion and, on the other hand, the teaching opinion, the basis of discussion in various periodicals. I believe that this is a relationship in which I assume that it is ultimately not an impairment of the rule of law, but a new form of activity. I think it is simply the wrong approach to say that everyone has to go through, regardless of the dispute and regardless of the subject matter, two instances and come to the third instance, because only then the rule of law is actually preserved. We should have confidence in the Judicature of the Supreme Courts, we should have confidence in this new system, we should also have confidence that this discussion, which is to be held, and that the contributions of the teaching that are delivered, will improve quality. In this sense, I believe that, in fact, the value-limited novels have taken a step further to what you originally suggested, namely, to speed up the entire procedure. Therefore, it is good and to be signed. Finally, I would like to thank the staff, officials and officials of the Ministry of Justice for their truly excellent work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8619	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8641	High house! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor and not only colleague, but also lawyer, Dr. Jarolim, asked me to comment on the accusations made by our Federal Party officer to colleague Fuhrmann regarding the representation of companies suspected of being Mafia organisations. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I made it home!]] I don't have any problems with that at all. I don't want to push for this. Mrs Stoisits has also referred to this case. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you distance yourself from the words?]] May I speak out one day? Firstly, I am of course an opponent of those who believe that the lawyer is identified with the doing of his clientship. This equation cannot be drawn up at all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But Dr. Haider did that!]] Not at all! Wait! There would be no idea that if Mr. Dr. Mayer or Mr. Dr. Philipp took over the legal representation of a Russian accused of the contract, there would be sympathy or equality with any interests. - That's the one side. I am therefore against the fact that there is a level playing field, an identification of the lawyer with his client. That would certainly be a complete inadmissibility. In the present case, however, it is about something else, and I believe that Mr Fuhrmann himself can best explain it. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that such companies that are suspected of being successors to the KGB with mafios structures and who want to take economic foot here in the country are, of course, looking for the closeness of the power and the rulers. I mean, we can sign these findings together. That is to say, it is from the outset not impossible to say that from the side of Nordex, which is a certain closeness to these mafios structures and which is more or less on the watchlist of the USA – Switzerland's defence service is also a devastating witness – it tends to come near the power. I believe that this finding will probably also have to be approved. And from this point of view, one could of course see the lawyer's mandate to a lawyer who is also a member of the National Council, who was Clubobmann of SPÖ. I say consciously, you could see it that way. I think it is up to Mr Fuhrmann to give the necessary information here. I would discuss things with my client and put things on the table as a lawyer – I say quite openly – because it is in the interest of this former or even now existing client to clarify any accusations of a mafia close. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what about the lawyer's duty of silence?]] Mrs Colleague, I think you are not necessarily appropriate to say something about this. As a lawyer, let me comment on this. As a lawyer, one is subject to a strict obligation of confidentiality. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: As a lawyer or a deputy?]] And this duty of silence can be lifted in agreement with the client. I now say that it would, of course, be possible to reach agreement with this group of companies if nothing really could be hidden and if it were normal legal representations. No more and no less could be expected. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I would already have something against it if my lawyer...!]] If, nevertheless, there is no release from the duty of secrecy, this dispute will be fought politically and on the other hand before the ordinary courts. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a monsterity!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's a lot of noise for nothing!]] But at any rate, Mrs Stoisits, if you are trying today to influence the Minister of Justice... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you distance yourself or not?]] Mr Fekter, you are not accessible to this differentiated argument! It makes no sense at all to argue in this direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm serious about this issue. You are strange about this differentiated thinking, as you always prove with the management of the Justice Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're hard to argue! I don't understand for you!]] I'm perfectly clear. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] That there is no consensus with you is more confirmed in the accuracy of my analysis. On colleague Stoisits: I would also like to point out that today a Member of the House has tried to influence the Minister in order to have this influence on a stand-alone organisation, namely the Barbarella. That's not how it is! The Bar Association is an autonomous professional association, and no minister has any influence in one direction or another. I see the board as representing the interests of the lawyer and not at all as an overriding body, at whose "fatherly breast" I turn when I get into distress as a lawyer with my mandate or also politically. My own professional pride would get me in the way if I said: Please, dear Chamber, call a press conference and stand by me! This is the case of the lawyer himself, and the colleague will take appropriate steps. Whether they are crowned of success or not, my knowledge escapes because I do not know the facts. However, I believe that I have shown him a path that could be taken to approach this issue properly. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Against the liberals in Lower Austria there are accusations of money laundering!]] Mr Barmüller! You're right. Our colleague Schreiner is now undergoing your inquiry. [[Abg. May. Barmüller:... you shouldn't talk around so indiscriminately!]] I have heard that safety certificates are issued by the Board of Advocates and by the tax offices of economic agents and tax advisors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate should not serve to discuss a very individual problem exhaustively. Let me therefore generally say a few words on the issue of judicial policy: first of all, on the argument of the complete abolition of the principle of indebtedness, as Mrs Stoisits called for in relation to marital law, on divorce law. I am a strict opponent of such an abolition, but I do not know that there is a need for reform. That's not a question at all. Mrs Stoisits! It is also an unsustainable condition, in my opinion, if a woman leads a man or a family to the household, raises children, and makes a side leap after 20-25 years of marriage, that he should be a side jump then cause her to live practically mediocrely and not even to have the necessary maintenance. In the case of such hardships, I imagine a evasion of the principle of indebtedness towards a supply compensation. So it cannot be; this is a provision at the expense of the woman who is no longer modern today. However, a complete abolition of the principle of indebtedness would pave the way for the German legal situation, for in Germany there is only one ground for divorce, and this one ground of divorce is called "savior of marriage". The maintenance is granted without prejudice to the indebtedness – or not. Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany, however, one is already taking the opposite path because one has come to believe that this undifferentiated claim for compensation – whether one comes near a legal abuse in the pursuit of maintenance claims – may not have been the right way. This strict rupture principle is re-evaluated and goes from the point of view of the principle of indebtedness. It is my opinion that only a mixture of the principle of payment and indebtedness, taking into account the supply situation, can be a common solution. However, I do not know that there is a need for solutions and problems. On the question of victim protection: This topic has often been stressed. Mrs Fekter, in particular, often stressed this point. She's bubbling herself with putting the victim protection on her flags. Of course, that's not enough. You say you're satisfied with the judicial policy because you're the chairman of the judicial committee. I think that's a little bit to be able to knock on the shoulder. In fact, there is a need for reform. It is not done by moving through the country with any brochures, but it should actually be done legitimately in favour of victim protection, especially in connection with the incredible cases of child abuse. We liberals have taken this up a long time ago, and we are constantly calling for an intensification of the punishments, a departure from the conditional forbearance, an exclusion from any amnesty for child abuses, even in some cases a lifelong monitoring of the backsliding perpetrators, as Tony Blair has introduced in England, but also a massive increase in the criminal framework in order to provide protection for potential future victims. It's true when you say that it can't be all to demand just an increase in punishment. However, the increase in penalties is absolutely necessary if we consider that the rate of relapse in child abuse is more than 50 percent. That is, if you take effective victim protection seriously even in terms of future potential victims, then you will have to look at these mechanisms, as your party friend Tony Blair has introduced in England. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say a few words about civil law. We must certainly bear in mind in civil law and in civil procedural law that our law is no longer fully the law we have practiced for decades. The implementation of Community law means, Mr President, that two different legal systems are interconnected. In Austria, we have the law, there is no formal link to the practice of case law, including the Supreme Court. There is no prejudiciality. It is true, however, that prejudice exists in proceedings before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg in the interpretation of Community law. This seems particularly important to me when one considers these findings and prepares any proposals for solutions, because in Austria today a district judge is not required to represent a certain jurisdiction which the Supreme Court has taken. However, if it comes to a preliminary ruling, a preliminary ruling by the Supreme Court or one of the subjudgments which is also entitled to refer to the European Court of Justice on the interpretation and application of Community law, then the Austrian courts have a compulsory duty to implement this preliminary ruling. There seems to be a disparity between me. What is being judged in Luxembourg must be implemented. There's no if and but. But there is no such bond in Austria. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to this problem. The next few years will show – there are currently about 40 preliminary rulings on requests from Austrian courts in Luxembourg – how Austrian justice will deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8843	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e8865	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A budget debate, in particular on the chapter on justice, which takes place about half a year after the last, cannot bring a lot of new things. In this respect, I also understand that the interest is limited, as is seen here in the light of the empty lines. I have made the effort to look, above all, at the statements made by the Minister of Justice at the last budget debate, because I thought that half a year is not long, but let us take a look at what has been implemented by what he has announced. The balance is to be said: It is probably a question of how benevolent you want to draw this balance. They talked about the following big chunks at the time: As regards nuclear liability, something should be put on the table. – Not much happened, as we know. Nothing happened in the case of environmental liability. That's been in the drawer for years and days. You have said that you will continue your reforms in the field of family law. Marriage and divorce law, you have announced, would go to the review next year, so now. I know that you have tried to put something on your feet, and I know that your efforts have failed primarily on the ÖVP. I do not want to speak again about my idea and the ideas of my group on these questions too much, because we will do so when the proposals come into the committee. I would like to stress once again that the Liberals have long called for the abolition of the principle of indebtedness. I believe that it must not be the state’s cause – I say – through a official, a officer in the most private matters – under quotation marks, "to govern" and to talk about who is responsible for the breakup of a relationship. I believe that this does not have to be decided by the State. What I very much believe, on the other hand, is that the State has to give some assistance to the weaker or the weaker. He will also have to give this in other social policy areas. However, we understand that this is the only way to regulate the right of maintenance, and I do not think that the maintenance right and the principle of indebtedness should be linked. But this is a question of an – admittedly – very ideological access, an access, which differs greatly not only from the liberals, but also from the ÖVP – and to what extent I do not know the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] We hope that we will soon have an opportunity to talk about the concreteness of these things in the Committee. Minister of Justice! I would have liked you, if you were to take up a subject when you were talking about family law as a whole, and if you were talking about marriage and divorce, you would take it on your own, which has long been of importance in the social debate, and has also gained in importance. Perhaps that is why it has become necessary because other countries are ahead of us a huge step in this regard. I mean the institution of a registered partnership. I think it is necessary to have a specific discussion about such a registered partnership. One can talk about whether this registered partnership should only apply to homosexuals, whether it should apply to homosexuals and heterosexuals. [[Abg. Großruck: That's why you have the absolute "majority" in Austria!]] Whoever! We can talk about all of this. We can also talk about what legal effects it should be equipped with. What legal effects of marriage is one willing to take over – and which one is not? Where do we leave the boundaries of distinction to the Institute of Marriage? In what areas do you feel that they are not necessary? – You should talk about all of this and not reflectively refuse any discussion about it in a traditional – under quotation marks – "moral consciousness" because you already see the fall of the evening country in it. I would have liked you, Mr Federal Minister, to take an initiative and encourage a discussion which will enable the others to respond to their arguments. I'm disappointed you didn't do this. I am only saying this because you have spoken about reform considerations relating to family law. We Liberals will, in any case, become an initiative. They have also announced, in connection with the law on child affairs and property, that they will have a novelle in preparation and wish to continue to work in the extradition procedure, as you have said. In addition, you wanted to reorganise the procedures and procedures. But nothing has been implemented. What you have done, however, is the Criminal Change Novelle, the Criminal Law Change Act 1998. They have even prepared a second part. The assessment procedure for the first part expired in May and the second part of the review is still pending. This is quite something I must admit to you, and I also think it is very decent to say that, especially if there are many points in it which will be approved by us. It is also true that there is a new criminal procedure in 1998; They pointed out this during the budgetary deliberations in November. That was at a time when the review procedure had already expired. That is why we have expected you to take into account the opinions you have received in connection with this review procedure in such a way that you can actually become a government template. They also announced this in Ottenstein in February 1998. Federal Minister! You have a maximum of three weeks left if you want to make your promise true. You have said that in spring - I think this is already too late, but at least - you want to make this criminal procedure a government template. And then it is still the question of whether it is coming into committee. But anyway, what you can do would be done with it. I'm still waiting! I think it is a point of order – and I will come back later on to the statements made by Mrs Fekter – that Mrs Fekter has not only publicly pronounced a junkim here, on the one hand, but on the other hand the strengthening of the victim protection measures – which no one wants to dispute that they are necessary – and on the other hand, the distortion concept. At events – the Justice spokespersons present know that – it is easy to talk at groups, so where you like to receive applause. I remember very well Mrs Fekter when she also took the floor there and said that there was no point in talking about a junkim, and this division is going to move it forward. - These are empty words. It is bad enough if empty words are spoken at any events, but then to make up for it and say that one is satisfied with the pace of a reform, and to ask the Minister of Justice about another matter, may he be active, but even not to get things started, I think that is a double ground. But this double ground will become clearer with other examples, which I will also list. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Fekter seems to be on the protection of victims only if it corresponds to her ideas which we do not know otherwise. I can only remind myself of a fact sheet that she meant that it should be imposed in this context. But for the last time, my colleague, Mr Barmüller, has criticised this in a very striking way. Since September 1996, we have had a request here which has not yet been negotiated. The chairman has not even convened a committee meeting, but I also come to speak on it. This request concerns the improvement of the victims, namely those who need the most protection because they are the weakest, i.e. children and young people. Our request for the amendment of the Jugendgerichtsgesetz provides for a number of points that can lead to an improvement – if one can use the word "improvement" at all in this context – but at least to another consideration of the role and situation of a victim in such procedures. To date, this has not even been started. – I am only saying this because you may need an argument about how serious it is with these ideas. My impression is that the division should obviously only be blocked, and that does not surprise me after I have heard the explanations here before. I have nothing against long thinking processes. On the contrary: If they are used, they can make sense. But just to talk about the need to question something and obviously not being able to do it myself in order to give an answer, I think that no contribution to the judicial policy, no political contribution at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They have said that the criminal procedure will enter a concrete stage. As a goal, you have defined the balance between investigative efficiency, rule of law and compensation for the consequences. I think it is necessary to keep a balance between these three terms, so I agree with you. I just do not like the order because I believe that the rule of law is to be ordered by means of an investigational efficiency. But maybe have You don't mean that in this order either, I'd hope so. I would like to thank you and your House for the fact that there is now a draft discussion on this matter, because this has at least led to an incitement from here. But now I come to the further procedure. I would like to do something I – and not just me – always do from this point of view with the chapter on justice, and I would like to express my respect for the competence, for the willingness to cooperate and for the quality of the work of officials, the staff of the House of Justice. I'll stay with him, and I'll repeat this thanks. I'd love to do that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I admit that what I have always attached to it, namely that this is the particular climate in the judicial policy, that it makes up the special ground that it can also produce something, can no longer be linked to it. This is not the fault of those whom I have just thanked, but that is the fault of this House, and that is in particular the guilt of the chairmen of the Committee on Justice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If there are no more informal discussions, I can already imagine that perhaps the reason for this is that the Minister of Justice, perhaps due to a imposed - I do not know how to express this - is the affinity for the coalition, trying to treat no one worse than the others. Maybe that's the reason. But now it is the case that there are no longer any templates to be negotiated at all. At the same time, however, the President of the Committee on Justice stresses how satisfied she is with the pace of the reform, at the same time calls on the Minister of Justice to comply with any motion for a resolution, but has not yet given any thought to the "quality feature" which is for them that the list of applications, which have been allocated but have not yet been consulted, covers two and a half pages in the presidential protocol in which this is always listed. And there are a lot of applications – I am not talking about those who know that they can only be dealt with in a large, complex context – which would be, of course, treatable. Do you know when the last meetings of the Justice Committee took place? ==References== ==References== December! It is so pleased - I understand that the group is hardly present here - with the pace of justice policy, which I do not wonder, because since the 2nd century. On December – and this committee was EU-founded; at that time we had to discuss proposals on increases in fees and the like – there was no committee, and obviously there was no need to deal with the proposals. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I understand now that perhaps Mrs Fekter no longer feels competent, since Mr Khol, as you know, has now also taken over the role of the judge as a moral guardian on all possible issues, not only in justice, but also in culture, as he makes himself a speaker. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I want your worries!]] I am pleased in this respect, as well as in my capacity as head of the club as a judge and cultural speaker. However, I was elected by my club. I do not know how the spokesperson chosen by the ÖVP club can do with the fact that their clubman is now a judge and cultural speaker. He is also a social spokesperson. I only recall that he wants to pull away a supposedly perceived mat from him and more. He's also a woman's spokesman, of course! I think it is wonderful that he has the time to take over all these functions. This could be an explanation for the fact that Mrs Fekter is no longer convening a committee. Mr Khol may and may not be able to do so, and therefore she believes that this does not make sense as long as things are not completed. The fact that the working group was left at the time is no longer of such relevance today, because there is at least a draft prepared by experts. I am now referring to the second part of the Criminal Law Change Act 1998. I hope that we will soon have an opportunity in the Committee, or in other ways, I do not know, to talk about matters and also about what the ÖVP means when it talks about them – otherwise we can only read them in newspaper articles and hear them in other discussions, and in so far as I have to say that there is obviously the biggest block of brakes to look for – that the "good habits" should be protected. That's why she's doing it. In this respect, this has always been very logical and homogeneous throughout the argumentation, for when it comes to protecting good morals instead of the integrity of man, it is important that, as was the case at the time, one is also opposed to the punishment of rape in marriage as much as rape outside of marriage. Of course! Because if it's not about integrity, but about a certain moral image, it obviously makes a serious difference in the eyes of the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: One doesn't exclude the other!]] I remember very well how difficult it was at the time to bring the ÖVP to a different argument, so... – You just need to read the protocols! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is not at all true! Don't claim such untruths!]] Fortunately, we now have a criminality of this crime, but it is quite homogeneous throughout the argumentation, because it is also seamlessly associated with how to deal with homosexual people. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You can still say it 20 times, but it's still not true!]] This is not about self-determination and the integrity of the individual, but about certain "sitting" ideas, which I always put under quotation marks. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is about protecting young people!]] This line of argument also fits on a completely different subject: When it comes to the 0.5-promille, these are ultimately "sitting" ideas, which are based on it. They are just a little different, but there too the protection of integrity plays less role. That actually fits everything together! This is the only thing for which the ÖVP can be congratulated in this context. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You should have written a speech – and not just attacks!]] Of the open proposals we have, I would like to make very few that are related to this issue. It would be possible to talk about it once without long negotiations, but in an intensive exchange of arguments, and also to speak of those Members who would otherwise always say in newspaper interviews or at relevant events what they would like to do. I am therefore not talking about § 209 StGB, although I think it is a shame that we still have it, I am not talking about it at the moment, but I am constantly hearing from circles of the ÖVP that this inequality, for example, that homosexuals do not have a right of withdrawal before court, is not justified. I wonder, Protect what You with that? – Protecting Do you protect the relationship of trust between people, or do you protect your moral ideas about who may and who not be together? That is why I would ask you to perhaps be prepared to convene a judicial committee and, for example, to consider the request of the Liberals on the right of withdrawal, which provides for the disappearance of the term of the sex so that it is gender-neutral to deal with and to think about whether it corresponds to a Christian human image that you can represent. Do you know how people who have surgery, gender change, suffer from what formal path they need to go in connection with the change of name? . There are requests from the Liberals in the Committee for a change of name to facilitate at least this facet, which is only a small one. No man of yours is mad about it! I remember that the Minister of Justice announced about half a year or more ago a change in the law on rent law in the direction that there should also be a right of entry after the partner's death for homosexuals. All agreed that it is really an advantage that someone who has lived 30 years in a community of life with another human being when the other dies should not enter into the rental relationship only because he is a homosexual partner in contrast to a heterosexual. They have announced a change, but such a change, apparently due to the blockade of the ÖVP, has not even come into the house. I would therefore like to say to you: We are not satisfied with the pace of judicial policy and reform policy. We nevertheless agree to this budget. We therefore agree with him, Mr Minister of Justice, because we want to strengthen your back so that you can move forward.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9042	The next speaker is Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Michalek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Following a good tradition, I would also like to take advantage of this budget debate first of all to give an overview of the legislative projects of the judicial body in the near future, even to the danger of being eroded in a year, of not complying with everything. But I like to take back wind and back strength! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Not shocked!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't sign a contract either!]] They will be able to see that the Justice Committee will not be unemployed even in autumn, during the Austrian EU Presidency. Before the summer break, Parliament will be given the first Euro-Justice Accompanying Act, the Takeover Act and the Criminal Change Act 1998. The one decided yesterday by the Council of Ministers. Euro-Justice Accompanying Act sees the introduction of the euro per 1. January 1999 Provisions in general civil law, in particular for the protection of consumers, for the replacement of the future excluded discount rate and other values, and for the possibility of foreign exchange deposit rights in the basic book, but also for changes in accounting and – very comprehensively – in the area of the rights of the stock company and of the public limited liability company. ü ü ü ü ü. ü ü. ü..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Under the Takeover Act, as you know from previous debates, the protection of small shareholders The transfer of control rights to a stock company improves the attractiveness of the Austrian capital market. Finally, the Law on Criminal Law 1998 aims to increase the penalties for serious cases of sexual abuse and to extend the limitation period for sexual offences committed in children and adolescents, as well as to extend the gentle hearing of victims of sexual offences. In this context, Mrs Fekter, I can say that the talks with the competent Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, conducted by the Federal Ministry of Justice to improve the position of victims of sexual crimes under the crime victim law, are very promising. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Super!]] [[Congratulations to Members Dr. Fekter and Rosemarie Bauer.]] On the other hand, the Criminal Change Act 1998 is intended to implement OECD and EU legislation on the fight against fraud and public corruption. It is only for the autumn work of the National Council that the new criminal procedure in 1998 will be suitable for the regulation of out-of-court compensation and other disversion measures, as the evaluation of the results of the extensive review procedure has been longer than suspected. However, we are very pleased that during the summer a template will be possible. At the same time, we are working on the assessment drafts on novels of the order of attorneys and notaries. As far as nuclear liability law is concerned, I can say that the Federal Ministry of Justice has not been ineffective. We are currently dealing with the revision of the review procedure. You can probably imagine that there were some very weighty objections there. Another focus of our work, as mentioned today, will be the marriage, divorce, childhood and property law, and I am committed to presenting the drafts to the public in the summer of this year. The law on matrimonial and divorce law is essentially intended to address the problems already discussed in the public, which have occurred in practice and which usually affect themselves to the detriment of the more economically weak, i.e. mostly the woman, in an appropriate manner. In general, the draft is guided by the objective of strengthening the principles of equal rights and partnership in marriage, increasing the protection of the economically weak in marriage and in the post-marital dispute, reducing the principle of indebtedness in divorce and divorce law, and promoting mediation as a conflict-avoiding instrument of marital and post-marital dispute. The reform of child affairs is about taking into account developments and trends in our society, which lead to a greater emphasis on the independence of the child, to a more sustainable consideration of his will and well-being. Thus, not only is it considered to reduce the limit for achieving the maturity from 19 to 18 years, but also to introduce an independent application legitimisation of minors in procedures relating to their care and always to strengthen the children's right of self-determination where it concerns interference in their personal rights. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr Schmidt]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] In the case of the case-law, it will be particularly important to ensure that, in view of a considerable increase in the number of orders for property, the case-law can be used more effectively in the future than it may have been in the past and there. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will also continue to devote ourselves to our major projects, to the reform of the dispute process and to the overall reform of cooperative law, and I hope that it will be possible to present proposals at the end of the year. Finally, the technical, political and media reactions to the draft discussion presented in April have been optimistic in terms of the demanding project of an overall reform of the criminal process. This draft discussion will now be discussed with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, as well as with representatives of the relevant professional groups and science, and will be further revised into a draft assessment. As with all the legislative initiatives of our House, we are going here to follow the path of careful preparation in interdisciplinary working groups in which we all involved – a way, not only inwards, Mr Dr. Ofner, but also outside, to obey justice. By the way, it has also been with the extended value-limiting novels addressed by Dr. Ofner. I can tell you that, after evaluation of these reforms in the nearly five months they have been valid, there is no reason, at least, to fear that the Austrian central function of the Supreme Court could be affected. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Minister! What expectations have these been? Whose expectations have they been?]] The expectations are on the one hand – that was the argument – to limit the access to the Supreme Court by a measure without endangering the central role of the Supreme Court, which is rightly advocated and demanded. And that is precisely what this scheme is all about. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What the device wanted has happened!]] But you can't always do what the lawyers want. That we didn't just belong to the device, you'll have seen when you read the editorial in the "recturing newspaper". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But there are still the citizens! There are the citizens, and there are the notaries!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our work in the international field – and this is getting bigger and bigger – will undoubtedly be in line with the adoption of the Austrian Presidency in the European Union in the second half of the year. This presidency is at a time when the Community's judicial policy is also facing new challenges. On the eve of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which will take important steps on the path of the European integration process, there will also be new prospects for the further development of Member States' judicial cooperation. One of the major innovations to the Treaty is the union of a number of materials, which so far belonged to the so-called third pillar, i.e. justice and home affairs, of the Treaty of the European Union. These include, in particular, measures of cooperation in civil matters involving cross-border relations, in so far as they are necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. Legal barriers to the enforcement and enforcement of civil claims, such as in the fields of private international law, the provision of services and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in civil and commercial matters, are to be reduced or eliminated. At the same time, it is important to address the challenges posed by new forms of organised crime in a Europe of open borders and by the abuse of the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons in the Community for the legal systems and for the cooperation of the Member States, in particular in criminal matters. However, the Austrian EU Presidency is also in line with the planned enlargement of the European Union, which is of particular importance for Austria not only for geographical and historical reasons. From the point of view of justice, it seems essential that the general principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as well as the rule of law, as set out in the Treaty of Amsterdam, become essential criteria for joining the European Union. This means not only the formal adoption of the Union's legal status, but also the existence of institutional conditions in order to be able to implement them effectively. In this context, the Austrian judicial system, as we have done before, will continue its efforts to support the reform states in their efforts to meet the criteria set out above and thus align themselves with the European Union's legal standards. Ladies and gentlemen! One word on the 1999 budget. Even if the total expenditure of the judicial unit is rising by 375 million schilling compared with 1998, the percentage of the federal budget will be net lower than in the previous year, because we expect an increase in revenue of around 440 million schilling. The additional expenditure is intended to cover the increasing current expenditure and to finance major increases in the field of property management, parole aid, in particular the comprehensive implementation of the extrajudicial compensation for adults, and in the use of automation-supported technology. However, the judicial system will also be able to invest even more in the training and training of its judges and prosecutors in various areas, not least in the field of economic and organised crime addressed by Mrs Stoisits. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, there is a fundamental word on the various criminal justice caussssss, which is currently pending, in the public and in political circles. Also for all these so-called clamorous causses: The citizen expects justice to have an unaffected, objective and competent work on the part of the public debate. I am sure that the Court of Justice will also justify the confidence it has placed in these proceedings. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9198	The next speaker was Mr Graf. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9219	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have now raised a wide range of issues regarding your plans for the future, which unfortunately do not allow God from time to time to replicate them here in general. It has also been a product of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, that the Rules of Procedure are becoming increasingly Minister-Friendly, but there is less and less time available for Members to debate, especially if one has to realize that the Committee on Justice is actually no longer meeting. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is a "meritance" of Mrs Fekter and the ÖVP, who actually get on the brake at all. It has already been said that this year no judicial committee has yet been set up. Then, of course, one even more surprises when Mrs Fekter – I have written this down, because one has to break this up on the tongue – says literally that the negotiations in the Committee on Justice are progressing to the general satisfaction that she is satisfied with the pace of reform, that a broad discussion should be held and that she assumes that justice policy in this House will not rest during the EU Presidency. – This is unbearable and even cynical, if you say so in this form from the speaker’s mouth! I would like to place that here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In reality, justice policy is made quite different, and I would like to briefly outline this: Justice policy is carried out in the ministerial working groups, in which the ÖVP is permanently shining by absence and Mrs Fekter has never been seen at all. Neither in the treatment of divorce law nor in the value-border novel, you have ever been there, perhaps to learn about how to hold the discussion there. Justice policy is quite different. The liberals are there giving sound opinions on the individual drafts – recently only on the matrimonial law amendment law – and you are going to the last meeting of this discussion forum with a parliament member and say: The EIA cannot deliver an opinion on the previous course of the discussion, which has been carried out over a year, for more than two years, but still cannot deliver an opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Two years!]] – Then give a press conference and essentially take the positions of the liberals. This is really the judicial policy you are running! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or – also happens, also with the help of the Minister, because we wanted to know in ourselves about the law of childhood also negotiated in the law on divorce, so that it could be brought into law at the same time –: At that time we were promised in this group of the Minister and promised that a draft would come before the summer and that before this draft will be discussed in public, it will be sent to the individual political groups. I then allowed myself to do so on 24 February. April – I made this in writing – to remember and also to gorgify what the draft is. The result was – which seems to have looked out almost after agreement – that next Mrs. Fekter was on 7 November. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Mr Prammer responded and also Minister of Justice Michalek gave his opinion on this. . I do not think it makes sense to be interested in a successful cooperation between all the political groups, not to keep promises that are made by simply beginning to discuss in the public, and finally we were the only ones who kept to the agreement and did not discuss them in the public. That's what I want to say here too! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to hang us a muzzle? You won't succeed! Your party keeper can do that with you, but not with us!]] Mrs Fekter! They run justice policy only more indifferently in the media, without even knowing the facts to be dealt with! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have to let yourself be told, Mrs. Fekter!]] I would like to say the following to the budget: I also regret that in a ministry where there is a high self-financing rate, which is more than two thirds, there are constant increases in fees on budget cosmetics at the expense of the citizen. I would just like to briefly outline which increases have been introduced in recent years at the expense of the citizen and thus at the expense of free access to justice. This shows how in the last two years these billions of surplus revenue – in about 1 billion schilling – has come about, but is not used to a good part at least for the protection of victims, but in turn, as we have just heard from you, for parole aid, for the execution of sentence et cetera – and, of course, by the way, to make a computer adaptation, which is quite useful. In criminal execution and bankruptcy law, a lot happens. That's welcome. These increases were only brief: There were increases in the basis of the assessment of services and extraditions, judicial terminations of leases, inventory disputes, court proceedings, property disturbances, paternity proceedings, excitating actions – that was not much, but something –; further valorisation of fixed fees from 1995, introduction of a disputed surcharge of 50 percent from 1997, introduction of a valorised query fee per sign for automation supported, collected information from October 1997, increases in payment fees in civil proceedings by 10 per cent, increases in payment fees in civil proceedings by 2nd and 3rd instances, increases in the cost of civil proceedings by about 5 to 10 per cent, increases in the fees in execution procedures by 10 per cent, increases in fees in bankruptcy procedures, increases in payment fees for maintenance in exceptional cases, increases in the costs for exit proceedings by 10 per cent, increases in the fees in the execution procedure by 10 per cent, increases in the amount of fees in the basic book by 10 per cent, increases in the percentage of fees, increases in the amount of fees for the subscriptions, increases in the percentage of fees for the subscriptions, increases in respect of fees, and percentages of fees. If one sees all of this from this point of view, that in reality the thumb screw is put on and in part the applicant no longer receives the right to appeal, because he may no longer be able to afford it, then what has been said by Member Harald Ofner is indeed a massive obstacle to the difficult access to the Supreme Court. It is certainly not a wish of the "anwaltslobby", which in turn is to reverse, but that is ultimately in the interest of the citizens. This should also be considered, for not the lawyer is seeking the right, but the citizen is seeking the right. This is also to be made available to him cost-effectively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9310	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kukacka. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9331	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, this morning, that we are taking over the judicial policy of the Freemans, no one in Austria believes you. You won't experience it so fast. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you would be well advised if you would!]] For, ladies and gentlemen, we already have our political principles and values in mind that we do not adopt this judicial policy. That's not where we get into the slightest temptation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Justice is still suffering under Dr. Graff!]] That our judicial policy or the judicial policy of our judge only consists of keywords... – All of Austria knows that world champions in keywords and black and white – not only in judicial policy, but in all areas of politics – are exclusively the Freedom Party, and we also do not want to compete with her. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're not here!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can't even compete with us at the elections!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to focus briefly on issues that also have something to do with my role as transport spokespersons. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Justice is still suffering from Graff!]] ==References== On 15 December, the National Council adopted a resolution on the abuse of alcohol, calling for, inter alia, the Federal Minister for Justice, the National Council, until 15 December. In May, a report on the case law of the courts, divided by the individual Oberlandesgerichtsprängeln, was submitted under the influence of alcohol in the field of negligence. It is therefore a matter of different sayings between the individual Oberlandesgerichtsprängeln in Austria, and I would like to focus briefly on this report. It should be noted that the number of people killed and injured by road accidents has fallen steadily over the last 25 years, with nearly 60 percent of those killed since 1972 and more than 30 percent of those injured – and this in the event of a constant rise in traffic. In recent years, the percentage of road accidents caused by road accidents has also fallen from 12.6 to 7.9 and 9.3 to 7.1 per cent, between 1985 and 1996 – and this during a period during which the 0.8 promille regulation has been applied, ladies and gentlemen! This figure has declined, although this promille discussion gave the impression that there would have been an enormous increase in alcohol offences. That's exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1996 a total of 44 convicts were committed in connection with traffic accidents because of the abuse of the negligent killing under "intoxication". The most widely applied sentence by the courts was that of the absolute imprisonment. The imposition of penalties other than those of the mandatory imprisonment was much lower and only for unpunished perpetrators. In general terms, the analysis of the Austrian statistics shows that the saying practice of the courts in the field of road transport crime is well balanced. It is also clear from the very high proportion of sensitive, absolutely impunity sentences that the cause of a fatal traffic accident in the alcoholic state is by no means a cavalier offence and is not seen by the courts. Some media claim that, but that is not in line with legal practice. We expressly welcome this. We also note that this is also necessary and useful in the sense of a preventive transport safety policy. However, the breakdown of the figures presented by the Oberlandesgerichtsprengegeln shows a very differentiated picture. Unconditional prison sentences were imposed exclusively in the Oberlandesgerichtssprengeln Wien and Graz. In the explosions of Innsbruck, the number of fines imposed is higher than those imposed by the mandatory prison sentence, whereas in the explosive Linz only extremely few necessary sentences of freedom are imposed under alcohol in the event of negligent killing or serious injury. The picture thus emerges from a much stricter case law in the explosives of Vienna and Graz, a moderated strict case law in Innsbruck and an extremely moderate case law in the Oberlandessprengel Linz. I do not think that this clearly different saying practice in the case of serious transport offences makes sense, Mr Minister, even if it is not necessary and desirable. Regardless of the place of action, offenders are supposed to have to expect the most comparable sanctioning of their conduct – across Austria. This seems to me to be an important legal principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know that, because of the constitutional separation of justice and administration, there is no direct influence by the Minister of Justice on the provocational practice of the courts, unless in the form of the law applicable to the prosecutors to the Minister of Justice. But there is, of course, a reluctance to do so – and I agree with that too. In particular, in the light of the intensification of the driving licence law and the road traffic regulations in the alcohol regulations, the further development of the saying practice in the individual Supreme Courts must be followed with great attention, namely the judgments taken. As far as possible, training courses for judges must also be carried out, through discussions with officials, on an Austrian level as uniform as possible. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9446	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9467	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the 1999 budget, additional expenditure of 376 million Schilling is planned for the justice sector – an increase of 3.6 percent compared to the previous year. Although this budget increase is above the inflation rate, it is not worth mentioning. It could be thought that in 1999 routines and business activities were announced for the judiciary. In reality, however, major projects are planned for 1999, which will have a lasting impact on the case law as soon as we decide on them here. I will only be limited to criminal law in my remarks because of the shortage of time. The former Minister of Justice, Christian Broda, in a lecture in Salzburg, in 1984, held the following: "Legal reform in democracy is in the service of the follow-up process, by which the legal system is adapted to the changed society. So it is, and not vice versa. Nevertheless, the change in the legal system within the framework and in the course of the social follow-up process is not without meaning for the further development of society. The change in society and the change in the legal order are in relation to each other's cause and effect. But they also affect each other in the reverse sense. They rain on one another and fertilize one another." - Quote. I would like to remind you of these – hopefully undisputed – fundamental considerations when it comes to realising substantial changes in criminal law. Since we in this House have adopted the first part of the criminal law amendment law in 1996 and we are going to adopt the second part with the criminal law amendment law in 1998 – and I hope that this will be followed – we will now start the second part of the reform projects with the planned change of the criminal procedure, namely the reform of the criminal system. There is broad consensus in Austria that the criminal code, which is now over 120 years old, must be fundamentally and comprehensively reformed. This is also a priority in the current government agreement. There it is – I quote –: In this sense, it is about a rational criminal law and enforcement policy in the service of effective fight against crime, improved victim protection and a sustainable resocialisation that has become more criminal. – That seems to me to be extremely important. High house! I would like to point out that it is dangerous and, above all, pointless to try – as was the case in this House today – to play out the protection of victims against the resocialisation of criminals. It is very populist to argue that in Austria too much is done for the perpetrators and much too much for the victims. But that is not the problem, and I would like to quote Christian Broda again. He said: "The task of criminal policy is to keep the number of victims as small as possible. Everything we do serves this goal. The care for the victims of crime and the improvement of the prospects of resocialisation for fellow human beings are two sides of the same criminal policy. They are not opposites, but complement each other. Efforts in one direction are at the same time the conditions for success in the other direction." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no criminal law reform without involving the execution of the sentence, for that is a unity. To confirm this, I would like to draw attention to a model that is being practiced in the Innsbruck Justice Centre. It is a model in which drug addicts are offered the opportunity to undergo therapy during the criminal execution. This is important in that it fights the cause of crime. It must also be in the sense of society that, including Mr Ofner, we have mentioned this several times today, we must ensure that the offender does not fall back again. There is no schilling too much spent, and every schilling that is invested in this direction is a schilling that benefits society again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to end by quoting Karl Renner, a quote from one of his famous speeches. I spoke on the first reading of the draft criminal law on 21 January. September 1927 took out two sentences and would like to remind them today, including those who constantly call for higher penalties after harder, higher penalties. These rates are as follows: "The more barbaric the country is, the more barbaric the terms are, the more barbarous the punishments. The nature of its criminal law is, in fact, a cultural index of a people." After that, we should judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9544	Mr Schrefel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9566	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important foundations of a democratic rule of law is the confidence of the citizen in justice. This confidence must continue to be a focus of the judicial policy. Closeness and efficiency of justice as well as the priority for procedural acceleration and procedural simplification strengthen this confidence in justice. The 1999 Federal Estimate with an increase of 376 million schillings in property and personnel to 10.9 billion schillings is also taken into account in order to ensure continuous further development in the field of justice. The increase in physical expenditure is particularly necessary in order to cover the rising costs of medical care in judicial institutions. It seems to me to be particularly worth mentioning in the chapter on judicial institutions that, in addition to safe storage and medical care, special care is given to the vocational training of young people, so that young people can be more easily integrated into an orderly professional life after their release. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's where the probation aid starts. In this respect, too, the increase in state expenditure resulting primarily from the restructuring of parole aid, equipment with computer facilities and the intensification of care provision is justified. In the case of funding, the grants to the Association for Vendance Assistance and Social Tasks are estimated in particular. ==References== In January 1999, a private association will carry out the tasks of judicial aid. Now a few more sentences on legal policy within the framework of the European Union. In the EU's bodies, a number of projects are at work, in which the Federal Ministry of Justice is involved in the development of them. This so-called third pillar is partly a cooperation between EU countries in the fields of justice and home affairs and activities to harmonise the internal market. We have heard today that monetary and economic law is currently in place, but also consumer protection, company law, copyright, facilitation of extradition and so on. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few years, the international community has been increasingly faced with a threat from the manifestations of organised and cross-border crime. Due to our economic stability and geographical position of illegal activities such as drug trafficking, towing, money laundering, theft and smuggling of motor vehicles, we Austrians have not remained untouched. Special investigation measures have been put in place to combat organised crime in order to significantly improve the permeability of the security executive. This has brought a certain degree of alignment to the EU Member States. There is now still a number of reforms ahead of us, such as the reform of the law on childhood and divorce, as well as the case-law, measures against child abuse or the contested case-law. While the latter should bring a discharge of justice, it seems to the citizens that very shared opinions are being expressed, which leads to the feeling of right and wrong. In conclusion, I would like to say that the new right to pay for judges who guarantee a higher starting point of service to young judges, but who do not increase the total amount of life-earning, is to be welcomed. This means more costs at the outset because older judges will certainly not opt for cuts in favour of young judges. These costs must be incurred out of court. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9621	Mrs Anna Huber is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9645	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In this legislative period, through a number of legislative measures in various areas, it has been possible to strengthen the position of consumers. I only remember here the novelle on the Banking Act, the Capital Market Act, Insurance Contract Law and Builder Contract Law, Securities Supervision Act, Realtor Part-Time Use Act and – last but not least – the Consumer Protection Act-Novelle. It is true that we have a relatively good level of protection here in Austria, at least in the European comparison. But that does not mean that there is nothing more to do. On the contrary! So where will the consumer policy priorities have to be set in the future? – As a result of the rapid development in the field of science and technology, I think consumers are facing new products and also completely new distribution channels. Shipping, teleshopping and purchase via the Internet are becoming increasingly important. These changes in sales, which result in no personal contact between buyers and sellers from offer to business conclusion, naturally create a number of additional risks for consumers. Therefore, the implementation of the distance selling directive is a very important step towards minimising these risks. Unfortunately, this directive does not include the entire area of financial services. But this is a very sensitive area. In part, it is about long-term contracts to which consumers are bound after conclusion. I expect important impetus and preparatory work on a common European solution in this area under the Austrian Presidency will be put in place. Similarly important and urgent seems to me to be a new guarantee right because, as I have already stressed in the Consumer Protection chapter, there is the largest number of complaints and problems in this area. In the course of the debate on the Justice chapter, I would like to stress once again that the proposal to introduce a uniform warranty period of 24 months for moving and unmovable things is quite acceptable. I welcome this compromise, although, of course, I have considered the original Austrian proposal, which has planned 36 months of warranty time, to be much better. All in all, I believe that consumer policy is absolutely no obstacle to the economy. Instead, it is a necessary balance between the naturally different interests of the economy and consumers, and it must: It is a matter of balance between the different conditions of power in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9689	Mrs Gatterer has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9710	Mr President. Minister of Justice! The world of tomorrow can be read by how we deal with our children today. – This is what UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan says, and he is right about it, because the wealth and the future of each country are its children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Whoever disregards the rights of children, who even tolerates silently that these rights will be disregarded, will play a part in our future. It is shocking that we read about abuse and violence against children almost daily in the media and that children will be victims of sexual violence and abuse. I think we are called upon to break the wall of silence across the political borders. This topic is thanks to God for a number of years now, but still perpetrators can assume today that they can become innocent and unpunished as perpetrators and repeaters, while children suffer lifelong effects and mental damage. And that is because the EIA's women's movement is a citizens' initiative called "Don't look away!" has started. The kids need us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tell them to protect the children from abuse! It's all about us. Minister! Much has been said about time questions today. I myself have been thinking about six years ago, for example, about the limitation period. Many things take a long time, but I hope that it will become really serious now with victim protection, with therapy for victims and with better assistance for victims. I hope that this will be serious, but I also hope that it will become serious with an increased anonymity of the victims in the media. It must be said that the media provide information and awareness-building, but sometimes this is at the expense of the victims. We will address our concerns as a citizens' initiative, because we want to achieve two objectives with this action. Firstly, with every signature we want to draw attention to this unfortunately existing problem, we want to generate consciousness, to clarify and thus to act preventively. The best prevention is to raise awareness and raise awareness – for which each of us has a responsibility – as well as, of course, legal measures. I think there is still a very big imbalance in what the penalties are. For example, if, like many Austrians, I read with pity that a Viennese in Thailand and Hungary has gone to 100 children and had only three months in prison, and on the same side is reported on a four-year prison sentence for the theft of three cars, I wonder: How do we weigh here? – Above all, I say: We are not weighting right here that the children should have more protection! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I would also like - especially from you, Minister - that under the EU Presidency of Austria, crimes on the Internet are increasingly being committed on the Internet. They know that today a lot of child pornography and child trafficking is being done over the Internet. It is shocking that the number of these crimes is increasing, that international crime has no limits and that the children concerned are getting younger and younger. It is shocking that these terrifying acts are increasingly being marketed by organised crime and in this way seek its market. I would also like to say, however, that for many children the family is not only a safe place, but that they sometimes have to experience the family as a crime scene. That is particularly terrifying for children. In this connection, I would like to thank the Minister of Family for drawing attention to the fact that, with the "No safe place" action, violence, abuse and also sexual assaults occur very often in the family. For many children of this world, childhood never begins – or ends much too early. Abused children are not only abused in their childhood and deprived of their childhood, but their bodies and souls suffer total damage. In this respect, not the right of the stronger one, but the strength of the law must apply. We need a much stronger right, and this must help the children. Children are small people, but they need great rights!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9778	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9800	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The public is discussing the financial scandal of the liberals and also the housing scandal of the liberals. We have heard from the Federal Minister that the criminal surveys are taking place. Why do I say that? – There was also a financial scandal and a housing scandal in Salzburg in 1989. Although there are significant differences – I would like to stress this with all clarity – there are also contact points. First of all, about the Salzburg process. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for having, as you have told me in writing, taken the necessary measures, particularly in terms of personnel, so that the major WEB procedure can be concluded. This is in fact a test of the functioning of the rule of law. - That's the one side. The other side is that we also need to discuss the problems. There have been a number of problems in the course of this procedure. In 1989 it was announced by the Chamber of Labour, but it was only in 1996 that the prosecution was made, and at the end of 1998, perhaps the first instance will be made in writing. In between, there were discussions about the partiality of judges and experts, the disappearance of the chief accused, the ex-state attorney Dr. Graf, the wonderful journey of the second chief accused, Dr. Schiedeks, to Central America and his unexpected, however, judicially forced return in handcuffs to Salzburg. However, this was preceded by a successful destruction of the accounting documents of the non-profit WEB, so that Edlach, for example, did not know in the proceedings against the country of Salzburg how to enforce their claims accordingly. In addition, there was a file wound at the Landesgericht Salzburg as well as at the Finanzlandesdirektion Wien. Why do I say that? – Minister of State! I expect that with the reform of the preliminary procedure, with the shift of the preliminary surveys towards the prosecutors, such problems will be eliminated and no longer occur. We have not only a financial scandal, but also a housing scandal. In the country of Salzburg, an own committee of inquiry has been set up, which has formulated demands on the Federation in the final report – demands, ladies and gentlemen, whom we have already implemented. I'm just thinking about the cooperative revision law amendment law, which strengthened the revision. The Freedom Party – I would like to remind you – voted against it. The Freedom Party has also made clear statements in this report. I read what was one of the demands of the Freedom Party: "If a building association is demonstrated in its activities of party political action, this should result in the loss of public utility." – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I hope that your wishes will be met in this respect. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wormitzer.]] If one deals with the WEB procedure – I have the indictment document here – it is obvious that business loyals were significantly involved in it. Why do I say that? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! At present, an economic loyalty law is under review, which I believe cannot be accepted in this form. The indictment in the major WEB straf procedure mentions three tax advisors or business loyals who are accused of causing damage to the extent of 1,485 billion schilling by the Salzburg Public Prosecutor's Office. This law on economic loyalty does not in any way address this problem. I remember the Rosenstingl problem, and I remember the case of Kohlmayr in Salzburg with a damage of 800 million schilling. But in this draft of an economic loyalty law, I miss the protection for the consumer and the protection for the investor. Federal Minister! I would ask you to assert your influence so that this draft will not be adopted in the Council of Ministers in the present form. It is about increasing safety for consumers, but it is also about increasing security for the serious law firms of business loyals and tax advisors. That's what we should do.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9879	Mr Rasinger has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9900	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, About two or three months ago, a case in Bad Goisern was reported in the media, where a whole place warned of a obvious mental illness that might have threatened others again and again. It was asked: Does something have to happen that something happens? Why are these people not being treated? There was another case in favorites: There, a grandma, who just went to a dance hour with her grandchild, was put down by a completely unknown person. After that, it was found that the competent primer, who had previously treated this patient more often, blamed the housing law. He said it was impossible today to treat people longer against their will. – Try to put yourself in the position of a victim! If you suddenly get stuck on the street, it's not exactly funny. We then held a survey to let the experience of seven years of housing law happen once for us revue and perhaps also make possible changes. It has become apparent that not the number of criminal offences is the main problem, even if they are extremely dramatic in the media, much more serious is the problem of non-treatment. These patients are not treated but only "treated". Afterwards, they will be mercilessly excluded from our society. I can say that as a practical doctor who has to do with it. Another phenomenon appears in the form of the so-called turn-door psychiatry: People come, are treated briefly, a month later they will come back and will be treated briefly again. Imagine putting an aspirin in your hand for a heart attack patient and saying after two days: Go home, it's not acute anymore! – The same problem is often found in the case of psychologically ill. Seems stupid has also made us that the staff of judicial institutions has deposited: We are not here to care for more and more psychologically abnormal offenders in the judicial institutions, who are not, in fact, part of us in the normal sentence. We're not a psychiatrist. Furthermore, Professor Schanda, the medical director of the Göllersdorf Justice Centre, said: Since the Accommodation Act, there have been much more people who do not have to be treated there for days, but for years as mentally abnormal legal breakers because they become criminal. In conclusion, the whole event was that the law was actually not being criticised so much. Nor was it urgent to change the law by any means, but it was suggested that the procedure be streamlined in some way. For example, Professor Danzinger of the Nervesklinik Graz said: The hearing puts a great burden on patients; they do not rarely have the impression that they are being "condemned" for staying in the psychiatry by means of the procedure they are supposed to protect. I'll get you together. I think that psychiatric care needs to be improved outside. This has also been noted by the Court of Auditors, but this should not be an excuse for justice. I think we need a better implementation of the law and a stronger co-operation. The Ministry of Justice was also represented in this survey and has brought in very positive approaches, so that I now believe that we should carefully develop a law which is not bad in itself in a very delicate matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9952	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e9973	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of today's budget debate on the judicial chapter to tell a little of what I, as chairman of the tenants' association of Austria, the largest tenant protection organisation in this country, experience daily, because I am also faced with the problems that people have every day. It is an unimaginable sum – in Vienna alone it is 40 million schilling a year – that the tenants' association is fighting back. This ranges from too high-paid and too high-calculated operating costs to much too high or over-exploited rents to illegal redemption transactions. This originally has nothing to do with the legal regulation, but this has to do with the fact that, when calculating these excess amounts, there is no risk to the landlord, to the homeowner. If you get a homeowner on it, we'll run a procedure for miscalculated operating costs, for the provision of additional basket fees, then the only consequence is that he has to repay this amount to the tenant who has objected to it, and even to this one. I believe that this is an area in which we should be very concerned about the extent to which we should not be more concerned – we also see that it is always the same as those which miscalculate the operating costs, calculate the overly high rents – that in the interest of the tenants, for example, additional cash benefits must be added to the house, which is then used for maintenance and repair. We all know, too, that an apartment is not a comparable property, which is not a consumable property, which can simply be abandoned, but that it is a fundamental need for life. In principle, we can also be very proud of the fact that we have a historically grown rental right with two very essential pillars for the tenants, namely price protection and termination protection, and that our cancellation protection also finds international recognition. It is not a question of opening up the market and abolishing these protective mechanisms, but rather: They need to be strengthened again because, without a doubt, there is no equality between housing seekers and tenants on the one hand, namely those who need the consumer goods for life, and the provider on the other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we have had a problem with this right of rent from the basics, namely the fact that there are fewer and fewer apartments which fall under the right to rent. We should therefore go in the direction of extending the scope of the rental law, for example, to supported apartments. In the same way, we should perhaps consider the fixed deadline as it currently exists – that is, how old the house is. The second very important area for tenants is access to law. We already had a debate on this in this House today. In this context, I also think that the decision-making of the value-border legislation, which entered into force in this year, is very essential. I share the view that it is in itself difficult to introduce value limits in a number of legal fields, because it no longer refers to the legal issue, but solely to the differential amount. In the rental sector, this is a problem because it is not about the amount of the amount, but about this content value that is necessary. I also do not think it very useful that only those who argue for very high amounts can go through all the instances, while procedures with low value for money actually depend on the national court. At the same time, of course, this can also lead to the existence of case law and we could then have a different Judicatur in Tyrol on matters of rental law than in Vienna. I don't think that makes sense. There is no doubt, however, that the intention behind it, namely a discharge from the Supreme Court, is a consideration that we could make. I therefore support the proposal, which I, Mr Federal Minister, also made in the course of the Committee's debate, that, especially in matters of rental law, where it is so essential to come to OGH's decisions, the tenants' protection organisations in Austria are given the opportunity to bring an action for association. This regulation exists, for example, in the field of consumer protection, where this is possible. In my opinion, all the other Austrian tenants' protection organisations for this scheme are also that we introduce the possibility of an association action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point that we naturally have to deal with – and this is also because we have decided in the National Council on a motion for a resolution with which we asked the Minister for Finance and you, Mr Minister, to present a suitable draft – is the very bizarre regulation in the rental law, which was invented as compensation for a tax scheme. They know that, as part of the income tax obligation of the main rental interest-rate reserves, it was possible to remove 40 per cent, which actually means a change in the tax rate on the tenants. I might want to explain this briefly. This means that 40 percent of the money that is available to receive the house can be taken away from the house and flow into the pockets of the homeowner, and if rehabilitation measures are necessary, this amount must be made one of the tenants. That's an unsustainable state! There is now a proposal, a draft of the Ministry of Finance, which would be a suitable way. I know that he also finds your support, we only have the problem of lobbyists of homeowners in this area. But I would also ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to accept this issue. It would be a way to find an ant-friendly variant and to assume that funds are taken from the house and that the tenants only have to come up for maintenance. This is particularly important because we have transitional arrangements, which may at present be the case that there is zero Schilling tax power and yet this 40 percent withdrawal is possible. But I would also like to thank you for two regulations over the last few weeks and months, because I believe that this is the right way. One is the cooperative revision law that we have passed. This is about control, and we know from the current occasion how important this control is. The second is the construction contract law, in which we have held that it is only then possible that funds are demanded from tenants, even if the credit is given. Although there was no cooperative in Austria, which would have been at risk of insolvency in any form, we still wanted to establish that the supervisory authority must issue a declaration of credit in the case of non-profits. The importance of this is also shown by the current case. I am therefore very grateful and pleased that we will continue to develop meteorological and meteorological regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10060	Mr Löschnak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10082	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate on the budget chapter on justice, I would like to make a few remarks on the right of association, which has recently been discussed several times, whether by means of a number of insolvencys or near insolvents in the sports sector, but also in other areas of the association, whether it was criminal or supposedly criminal aspects in millions of heights, for example, that have contributed to the speech of a cancer aid association, or whether it is the draft discussion of an interministerial working group on a reform of this association right. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already talking about Ins-Gesprechmen, we can of course not pass by the events of the last weeks in FPÖ, in the Lower Austrian FPÖ, because precisely these events are crying for stronger and more frequent control in all areas, especially where, on the basis of the association, "malversations" – as you do in the use of the new definition of violations, crimes and crimes under the criminal law here – have taken place. There have been many words on this right of association. I looked at this very carefully, and my succus from these words was actually: Most were, as so often, concerned with uncertainty, namely, uncertainty in a very sensitive area. That is why, I think, it is quite clear that: Most of these words could have been abandoned. The arches of these words ranged from several national leaders to representatives here in the house and in the country days to the respective Secretary-Generals. The Secretary-General of the Secretary-General of the Liberals, Mr Westenthal, was indeed shot down by the bird. ==References====External links== October 1997 means – I quote literally –: "All in all, the liberals will stand up to the around 100,000 Austrian associations and fight against the access of red and black." – That is what Westenthaler meant, and I believe that it is not enough to warn against having the FPÖ act here! Indeed, our 100,000 clubs in Austria do not need the protection! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will – because we are just in the Justice chapter – have to decide the judicial authorities in a good way, and they will – I am convinced – make the right decisions in these causs that have been working on the public for weeks. I would like to make a few basic comments on the whole association law. First: It seems to me that the private legal side of the association law has so far been far far far far far too short and that there is a very simple need for action here. Secondly, The fact that there is no need for action among the "normal clubs" – under quotation marks; I mean the sports clubs, the cultural associations, the singing associations – is equally obvious. And that – thirdly – especially with the sports clubs – and for these I speak on behalf of the Federal Sports Organisation; that is 14 000 in Austria – there is no need for action at all, is also obvious, because most of these clubs are burdened and bureaucracy is sufficient. But there are, of course, some of the things that will be new in the future for large associations that are economically run or run like businesses. I therefore believe that, not least in the light of the sad events in the FPÖ – especially in the Lower Austrian FPÖ – and in view of this negative quality, we can at least reflect on a renewed right of association in this country. I believe that we should also think, and I believe that we, who want to think and should be able to be sure of your support, Mr Minister of Justice. Thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10152	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Dr. Fuhrmann was speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10173	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate on the budget chapter on justice, I have also personally been the subject of the discussion. I therefore feel compelled to make a few comments on the issues raised. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that during the "press hour" last Sunday, Member Haider has accused me of being on the mafia's paylist. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's daily newspaper "Die Presse", editor Karl Peter Schwarz wrote an editorial. I would like to quote two paragraphs of this editorial. The first paragraph is – I quote –: "The motives of the FP campaign against the alleged Mafia contacts of the Federal Government are of a just disarming transparency. It's all about trying to distract you from the affair of Rosenstingl." A little further in the text it says – I quote again –: "The infammy of the accusation of the Mafia connection lies in the fact that the politicians concerned have no chance of defending themselves. Instead of Mafia, the campaigners had previously said ‘world Judaism’ or ‘freemason conspiracy’ and thus achieved the same purpose. The tradition line, which becomes visible here, is anything but liberal and democratic." [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you – and that is what we are on the subject again, namely the debate on the budget chapter on justice: I certainly see the opportunity – and therefore I am not of an opinion with the editor, whom I have quoted – to counter this attack on my honour, with the help of independent courts. The actions have been initiated, and I am convinced that in the functioning of the rule of law of Austria, which is characterized, among other things, by the excellent functioning of this judicial system and its judicial ministers in the past, my honor, which last Sunday has been shaken in such an immense way, will be restored with the help of the courts. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the circumstances – you know that I will relinquish my mandate in autumn because I will be transferred to the European Court of Human Rights – this is my last contribution to the budget chapter on justice. It would, of course, be very seductive, as a former judge, to stress the patience of the auditorium in a way that does not belong to a fee. I will be very brief, ladies and gentlemen. There is a lot of basics to be said, a lot of basics have already been said today, which I would like to stress. Much has been discussed about the fact that it is not just a matter of what the law in a rule of law is like, that it is not only essential for people in a country that there be reasonable, clear and humane laws in the High House, but that, as the second arm of that rule of law, a functioning justice must give citizens the feeling that they can come to their right – at their right in a reasonable time. That's why I'm with everyone who says: Also, pay attention to individual case-law!, but I am just as with all those who say: Please, give the citizens of this country the opportunity to reach their right in a reasonable time! You know, for example, that there is a state in our neighborhood, quite a rule of law – I do not call it the name now, because of courtesy – which, because of the problem of too long procedural periods – so we are not, so to speak, the first address to the European Court of Human Rights for longer periods of procedure – is in trouble without interruption at the European Court of Human Rights. I therefore ask all those who believe that individual case-law is more important and not so much the duration of the proceedings, but to take part in bringing the duration of the proceedings to such an extent that people who are fighting for their right also obtain it in a reasonable time. Ladies and gentlemen! This applies not only to the question of the WEB, as she mentioned to my colleague, Mr Maier, but also to Professor Dr. Doralt, who for six years has had to fight for his polluted honor to be finally restored to the public as it is for him. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of things would have to be said. I'll save you. Just allow me two more sentences. I would very much like to thank his officials in the House for their excellent cooperation, not only in the time when I was able to work with them as a judge, but also in the years when I was able to take responsibility as a clubman for the club of the Social Democrats. I would also like to thank the judges of all the political groups in this House very much. I am particularly grateful to those who have spoken very clear words in my personal case today, and I think my part of those who have not. But I am not angry with them either, for I know that they are in certain constraints. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10265	Mr Jung has now come to speak. Mr deputies, you still have a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10286	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Fuhrmann, you have now presented your position and said that the whole will come to court, the Austrian courts will decide, we will see. They also quoted "The press" and said that there is written, the infammy of the accusation is that the accused has no way to counter it. – You have now had the opportunity to defend, you have this possibility in the future, and I believe it is undisputed that the government parties in the public have much better access to the mass media than the opposition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, it has been referred to several times today by Mr Schreiner, whom I personally believe he is also innocent, and he has done everything he can to get it into the way that an investigation can be carried out without arrest. He was also accused here, massively accused! He didn't have the opportunity to fight. There was at least the same infammy of the accusation here, and there was just as legitimately the accusation that he had no way of defending himself. Not as good as you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Previously, Mr Krüger presented our position in legal terms from the point of view of the lawyer. As one of the laymen, I am also a member of the Committee on Justice. I am telling you how I see this case as a layman and how many citizens in Austria see it. Not too long ago – it was last week – was a show about the Grey House. There were two lawyers brought with their clients who had defended "small" to "middle" criminals. It was a show that gave a very interesting insight. One of these lawyers represented his position and said: I would defend everyone, even if I knew he was guilty, and certainly pleading for innocentness. This is legal, but the people – and I say that to you, Mr Fuhrmann, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – have a different sense of justice in these matters. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a big difference whether someone is a "small" lawyer – I say this here without devaluing – or whether this lawyer is in the People's Office and has laws to make, or whether this lawyer claims the position of a judge in the European Court of Justice. I think there's a big difference. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Fuhrmann! You said – if I remember this television interview correctly – that you only held the legal representation of Nordex. And in connection with the establishment of a company that was then in trouble, you meant you were just the founding father. Child-moving has taken place, but I tell you, Mr Fuhrmann, exactly in this area, the masses of Austrians have the same feeling as the "small" lawyer mentioned before. That is all right, but whether it is morally acceptable is quite another matter, Mr Dr. Fuhrmann! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You'll judge that!]] There is the term "honorous law firm" and "law firm". You can choose whether you want to have one or the other reputation, but in some positions you have to choose very, very precisely. Finally, Dr. Fuhrmann: You and the whole SPÖ react very allergic to appropriate accusations. I recall this protocol, which Mr Stadler quoted here two weeks ago, and Mr Jarolim has already spoken a great deal today about safeguarding justice in Austria. Such people as you, Mr Jarolim, who, as in the minutes, are dealing with Dr. Lansky, who has also had or has a connection, such things, where one agrees, as one could try to bring party-politically bound judges to the right positions, endanger the legal situation and sense of justice of the Austrians, much more than much else, what has happened here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10370	I now have a speech from Mr Böhacker. . Mr deputies, the speaking time that is left for their group has been exhausted. Your speech cannot therefore take place. A further word message is not available. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, does not wish to conclude. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. We shall first vote on the Advisory Group V of the Federal Estimate for 1999. This includes the chapter 30 of the Federal estimates and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 1100 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a positive sign. - That's the majority. The consultative group V is accepted by a majority. A motion for a resolution on this consultation group has been tabled, and I shall refer you to § 55. We shall vote on this request at once. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits and comrades with regard to increasing the staff of the prosecutors to combat economic crime. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may declare this by a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10443	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee on further examination of the responsibility of individual members of the Federal Government in connection with organised crime in Germany and abroad. In the meantime, this request has been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10485	We are going into the debate. I recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on speaking time. Each speaker has five minutes at his disposal. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. The opinions of the members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary should also not exceed this level. I now give the floor to Mr Mag. Stadler as the first speaker. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10510	Mr President. High house! The application and its text are known. Therefore, I will not go into the things that appear in the text of the application, but I will now refer to another book. One of them has already been presented here in Parliament, the second was presented last Sunday in a book discussion on the public broadcasting of the Federal Republic of Germany with a detailed author's interview. [[the speaker presents two books to the speaker’s desk]] It is entitled "On the Track of the Stasi Millions – The Vienna Connection", ladies and gentlemen. – So much about the reputation of Austria abroad and about who damaged this reputation of Austria abroad. These are books that, as it looks, will probably fill the best-selling lists and will not give Austria a good witness as far as the fight against crime is concerned, especially the fight against organised crime in Austria, and the recovery of the leaders of social democracy, as well as some of the Austrian People's Party's Party with organisations, economic crime, which specifically come from the former Eastern Bloc. Ladies and gentlemen! I am no longer referring to the connection of the climate of transport to the Orenburg-Telecom group, which had already been intensively presented in public at the time. I am no longer particularly interested in what links there are to the Nordex company, which in these two books certainly do not get away very well and which in reality... – Mr. Collegue! [[Abg. Wormitzer keeps a book up to date.]] You can save yourself from this book, because that is the book that you had to know years ago, not later than since the publication of the first edition of this book, about which society it is about, in which the Austrian Federal Government or former members of the government are moving. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am no longer referring to these things because I am too sorry for the speaking time, but I would like to remind you that, in connection with the hotel financing projects I presented during the last debate, it should also be known that Praschak – and this case we would have liked to examine – at the time opposed to taking over liability, namely liability for a hotel project in Prague, which a friend of the then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky – a well-known real estate dealer – should have rated or assessed. Praschak has recorded in his records: He – in other words, a representative of the Bank Austria addressed – makes it clear that any damage to this matter for Bank Austria without federal liability would not do me, the author – is Praschak – good. – A few days later, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Praschak was dead! This is the environment that is being dealt with in these books and in which the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Vranckky is moving, who has intervened for these groups at his former secretary Praschak. Ladies and gentlemen! You know exactly – Mr President, I ask you to really listen now! – that all these statements, which you yourself criticised in radio broadcasts, in live broadcasts, that the statements on the cross-links are based on letters, on objectively comprehensible reports from security services, even partly even from the state police themselves! None of this, as Mr President said on the radio, is inventing or presenting it against better knowledge. Mr Fuhrmann had now had the opportunity to present the stories differently, Mr President, but he did not use them. Mr Fuhrmann had now had the opportunity to say, on the request of Mr Krüger, what it has to do with the payments made by Nordex to his account. He didn't do it. He will have his reasons, and we will finally be able to deal with these reasons, as we have heard, in court, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the SPÖ for finally finding the courage to go to the courts! This has been due! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have been inconclusive for days, have not known whether you even trust to take this step because you know that one or the other will come out in court. The next letters, which in turn prove the cross-links of Mr. Vrannitzky to Nordex's company, have already been played to us. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Explain to me – not now, perhaps in court – what the now old Chancellor Vranitzky now organizes for the West German Landesbank. He organizes a visit to Buchara, Uzbekistan for the autumn, while the delegation is respectfully prepared by Austrian officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Federal Chancellor's Office, but the entry point for everything is the West German Landesbank, whose consul is Mr Vranitzky, ladies and gentlemen! Not Austrian interests are in the foreground, but German interests are preserved. Private interests are safeguarded and not Austrian interests, as one has tried to make the Austrian public aware. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second point: Mr Petrovic said – and this is to be read in the paper – that it will not engage in a debate with us – as the block-parties have at all concluded that they are no longer having a debate with the FPÖ. This is a behaviour, ladies and gentlemen of the block parties I am saying it is like a confession. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No counter-argument, no actual correction, but only refusal of discussion and democracy, and one believes that this is the case. This is a behaviour like a confession, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Petrovic tells us: We will make it clear to everyone else that we do not identify with the accusations of the FPÖ. – Mrs Petrovic! You acted a little early. You've issued the Persil license a little too early! Because the murder you were talking about in a sales location of Haban has taken place in a company – ladies and gentlemen, now you have to hold on! – which, through a Swiss company structure, is ultimately once again owned by the already quoted firm Nordex. That's how things look! Mrs Petrovic has already issued a persillic note and believes that she cannot identify herself with the accusations of the FPÖ at all. With the wish to clarify these things, the Green Group, represented by her wife, Mr Petrovic, cannot identify itself. The block parties already love each other so much, so that they show each other Persians, although they no longer know what is happening behind the processes in Vienna on the open road, where murders happen in light daylight. Mr. Fuhrmann – he will listen to me, he will not be left with anything else anyway; since he also sends his secretary to our press conferences, he will listen with great tension – why do you not explain that these documents are not voting? – It is listed here: ==References====External links== Mr Lansky. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Additional amounts are also available in these records. These are not accounts that the FPÖ has invented, but that is a list of payments from Nordex on payments to various personalities, including prominent social democrats, two of which I have already mentioned, Lansky and Fuhrmann. The amount that Mr Fuhrmann has received in total – he simply cannot deny that, he will not be able to do so in court – is a little more than half a million schillings, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Fuhrmann may explain, but why not? – That’s the crucial question! Why does he not use this opportunity? He still has enough time to speak. Why doesn't he explain this to us and say: Mr. Dr. Haider is not right because...!? – He can't explain it because he's on the salary list of Nordex. And he will not be able to explain this to anyone, because Nordex, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly being dealt with in these two books. But you didn't complain! These books are on the market, and there are no more string Georgias, how we always want to know about journalists! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Ex. Lösnak! Explain to me how it was possible for Mr Louchansky to be given a residence permit in your ministry, at the time when the Dr. Kessler, who had to face a great deal of criticism from me, had been called up by you in March and who had previously given negative opinions on the citizenship or the right of residence of Mr Louchansky. Hardly is Mr. Kessler gone, served, Mr. Louchansky gets unlimited stay. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is to be read in this book by Roth on "Die red bosse". As soon as Mr. Dr. Kessler was served by the then Interior Minister Lössnak, Mr. Louchansky receives an unlimited residence permit. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. The Director-General complains about this, and on the other hand, an official who has prevented it is being served. Mr Löschnak! This is in need of explanation! I hope you can explain this to us here, or do it in a committee. I invite you to do so if you have a clear conscience like your colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, who will have to explain this at European level. If Mr Marizzi is not allowed to come to the Court of Auditors of the European Union, since, because of his connections with Nordex, I believe, however, that you, Mr. Fuhrmann, are considered unworthy of this in this connection by people who are far higher in the party than you have been abused, I wonder why Mr Fuhrmann is then worthy of playing judges at the EMRK Court of Justice in Strasbourg. This will be of interest to the President of the Court of Justice and also to the President of the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying: Unfortunately, this is not the last case, because the last case in the SPÖ, which has now become known, is that of the designed head of state of the Burgenland, where there has already been a search for the house because of its connections to a Mafia organization in Russia.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10640	The speaking time of the following speakers is 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10664	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler rightly pointed out that in recent days, like a newspaper in Burgenland, a house search by a lawyer named Manfred Moser, designed successor of the head of state of the Burgenland Stix, has taken place by the state police because of his connections to the so-called St. Petersburg stock company, one, as it is said, of the Russian Mafia through and through controlled enterprise. So that's the reality! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how it looks!]] All this is no reason for you to intervene. In the first debate, Mr Löschnak tried to carry out a damage limitation, saying: At the beginning of 1989, we did not know what was going on, until 1993 we did not know that so well! – But: These things happened in 1994, 1995 and 1996, Mr Löschnak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now we have 1998!]] I'll show you something. This is an EDOK report, Federal Ministry of the Interior: [[The speaker shows]] Locked report, EDOK, Nordex, organised crime – 1996. This is an extensive report, ladies and gentlemen, in which the Ministry of the Interior presents a link between Nordex Austria and all the criminal activities. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] And already in the introduction of this report, it says that the Nordex Group is now worldwide – worldwide! – because of the suspicion of money laundering to a large extent. However, in addition to money laundering, the range of activities which it has affected should have been extended in international arms and drug trafficking. The suspicions are largely international. Your own Ministry of the Interior is preparing large documentation on filters, and you think you can steal from them by saying: Our politicians are involved, but we have nothing to do with it, that's just chance! – That is what we want to clarify. For it was significant when the Director-General for Public Security gave a justification for why these Mafia connections cannot be charged. He said: If you work in Russia, you have to buy the Mafia, otherwise you can't. And we have the obligation to trade with these countries. The Mafia also acts there as a regulatory element, and it must not be ignored. The Director-General for Public Security, who makes great reports on the danger of these shatterings, explains to us: If you're in Russia's business, it's just so, there's Mafia a power of order! to make it clear at the same time: It is not so dangerous if Austrian politicians are in business with those – right up to Mr. Bundeskanzler, who has negotiated contracts for this company. Today I've got a fax that I'm allowed to quote at the end: Dear Mr. Haider! Although I am not close to your party and your political goals, but as a German Social Democratic Party, I believe that it is necessary to reveal the political and moral swamp, in which some leaders of SPÖ are involved, and at last to create a public awareness of how far criminal structures have already passed into politics. The problem now is that it is obvious that everything should be covered again. Perhaps you will point out to your critics that the characteristic of organized crime is the connection between crime and politics, with justice and with the media. With a friendly greeting Jürgen Roth. – The author of the book on the Mafia. That says more than anything else: A German Social Democrats turn to the opposition in Austria for help, and he says: Helps me to clarify the filters of your own comrades in Austria! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10728	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10765	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, the self-employed were brought in applications 794/A and 795/A. Questions 4472/J to 4481/J were also raised. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00124_d7e10789	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingldie's session is unpunishedly distant. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 28. In May 1998, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999, including investments. For advice: Advisory Group XIII: environment, youth and family; Advisory Group XI: Finance as well as text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan, vehicle plan and plan for data processing facilities. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
