ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2071	Ladies and gentlemen! The 137. The meeting of the National Council is open. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Nut tree, Mag. Peter, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Dr. Haider, and Mag. Kammerlander. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2105	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the communication distributed at the meeting room and on the addition of the communication. The written communication and its supplement shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] To be completed: Assignments at this meeting: for preliminary advice: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs: Amendment 859/A (E) by Mr Volker Kierund Co-operatives, on wage-related service providers' contribution to social security; Building Committee: Request 850/A (E) by Dr Martina Gredler and comrades to ensure the expansion of the Technical University of Vienna by a new construction of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering; Constitutional Committee: Amendment 851/A (E) by Mr Karl Smolleund Comrades on the ratification of the European Charter on the protection of regional and minority languages; Amendment 852/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Peter Kostelkaund comrades concerning a federal law amending the European electoral system, Request 853/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the People's Desire Act 1973, Amendment 854/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, Amendment 856/A by Dr Andreas Khol, Dr Peter Kostelkaund comrades concerning a federal law amending the 1992 National Council electoral order; Transport Committee: Question No 857/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on driving licence (Führerscheingesetz – FSG 1997), BGBl. I No. 120/1997, i.e. F. BGBl. I No. 2/1998, as amended, Question No 858/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and comrades on the introduction of a credit card. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2378	On the points of the points according to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to be able to negotiate a supplementary agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports, to give a sign of this kind. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2408	It is also proposed that the debate on points 2 to 16 and 17 to 22 of the agenda should be summarized. I ask whether objections are raised. This is not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2433	Deputies Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Khol, according to § 57 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure requests that the debate on all the items on the agenda be held at a general speaking time of 7 'Vienna hours', so that the following speeches are made: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. This decision requires a two-thirds majority. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This is done with the required two-thirds majority. The request was accepted. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2466	Deputies Mag. Mr Schweitzer and Mr Comrades requested the self-employed amendment 860/A (E) tabled at the same time by the honourable Member before entering the agenda. Wetlanders and comrades on effective measures against child abuse and child pornography should be treated urgently. Ladies and gentlemen! This point has been discussed today in the Presidential of the longer one. There are two problems of interpretation with regard to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: These are § 57b para. 1 and § 11 para. 5. Both provisions use the term "sitting day", and the term "sitting day" is already interpretable in itself in each of these provisions. In addition, there are further possibilities for interpretation if both provisions are considered jointly. It then appears to have the rightful appearance that there might be two terms behind the word "meeting Day". As has been said, this has been discussed in depth in the Presidency. In any case, there is agreement that on today's day, the – forgive this banality! – At 24 p.m., only a urgent request or a urgent request can be called up, so that the problem arises whether a urgent request can be made in the course of this meeting beyond nine o'clock in the morning. This is the point on which no agreement could be reached. I would add that it has not been the practice to date that two urgent questions have been raised during one and the same session only because the session has lasted beyond midnight. However, I believe that if these applicants make such a request in the light of various interpretations, they will take into account, for various reasons, that this request may be called at a time – in this case it is hardly possible to say daytime, but nighttime – which is unusual. However, as you know, such a request has been made. I will allow this request. I know that this does not correspond to an understanding of the President-in-Office. However, I understand this permission above all as a powerful start of thought in the following direction: There has been agreement on a point in the Presidency – I see it at least – that the Rules of Procedure are particularly interpretable or perhaps in need of innovation, with regard to the principles for various interpretations mentioned at first – for example, after a longer discussion in the Presidency. This my decision to allow this urgent request should not have any prejudicial effect at all. Rather, as I have already mentioned, this should be a cause for thought. So I repeat: The urgent request will only be made if this meeting continues beyond 24 hours. He will not come to the call when the meeting is over by 24 a.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2517	I shall now continue with the communications and inform the House that Mr Wabl has requested that the Building Committee report on the application 847/A (E) concerning B 67b Eggenberger Gürtel Straße be limited to 20. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. In view of the call for urgent procedure for today's sitting under the conditions set out above, the short debate will follow. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. 1. Point Report by the main committee on the preparation of the request for a loss of mandate by Mr Peter Rosenstingl, as set out in Art. 161 para. 1 B-VG (1380 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2558	We will now go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. Mr Schieder, you are rapporteur. I give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2576	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are several reasons why a Member of Parliament can go missing in his mandate. One thing is that he has been absent from the meetings of the National Council for 30 days without a valid reason recognised by the National Council and has not followed the request of the President to appear or justify his absence in another 30 days after 30 days. This reason has nothing to do with the assessment of criminal aspects or the presumption of innocence, but refers only to the fact of the presence. Mr Rosenstingl is like the President of the National Council before the end of the 118. National Council meeting on 12 February. It was noted that this meeting remained unpunished, including the further meetings of the National Council on 13, 14, 15, 26, 27 and 28. May. It follows from this that the request which the honourable Member did not follow. For this reason, today the main committee has met with regard to the preparation of the request for a loss of mandate by Mr Peter Rosenstingl, in accordance with Art. 161 para. 1 B-VG and decided unanimously to recommend to the National Council the adoption of the request that the Constitutional Court of Justice should declare the honourable Member Peter Rosenstingl's mandate to be lost.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2611	Thank you very much, rapporteur. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I welcome my communication on the short debate: If the request for urgent action is not made for the reasons mentioned above, the Bureau will, of course, find a way of carrying out the short-term debate in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, now you have the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have all praised the strict fulfilment of our obligations when we enter the National Council. Mr Rosenstingl has not complied with these duties. He has not been ready for 60 days and has not been able to participate in the meetings of the National Council, under the conditions he himself has to answer, as the rapporteur has said. It is important to me in this context to note that this House does not appoint a Member's mandate as a deposition if he no longer belongs to the club or if he is prosecuted. It is not about questioning the suspicion of innocence – we do not talk guiltyly – but simply about the fact that the breach of duty is to be avoided by the House. In this context, it is simple and simple to say that the second 30-days-frist is for Mr Rosenstingl. That is why we have to make this request. We would also have to ask him if we had doubts about how the Constitutional Court would decide – which is not true of me. After all, it is crucial that the case-law is fulfilled, and that is why the members of the Constitutional Court have to decide. Ladies and gentlemen! For Deputies Rosenstingl, the two-way 30-days-Frist ends. For Mr Haider, who is missing without a reason which I can see today, the first of these two 30-day mills is beginning, because a breach of duty on his part has to be found all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it were not to gradually become apparent that this behaviour would already become a practice, one could go beyond that. But remember: A year ago, Parliamentary Haider also missed meetings in July. Just a year ago, he also conducted a refusal to work at that time. But at least a year ago, at least, he had the ability to obtain a monthly salary for a social or charitable purpose. However, it is not enough for this to happen today! Today only blackmails are made without a corresponding explanation being made! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not know what Mr Haider really does and which is why he is absent. But he must not explain this to us, but to the public! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Freedom Party cannot stand up for its responsibilities is the fact that it must also be made clear in this regard. This is the largest financial debacle ever to be observed in such a context. These are: Disincentives of savings, speculation with taxes, fraud against house buyers, misuse of housing funds for the purpose of party financing and sustainable refusal of the compensation you have announced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The "consumer" is not for the debate now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Now we don't talk about the "consumer"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The person who will also have to speak and answer in a medium-sized manner to the Constitutional Court, or who will have to decide on the Constitutional Court, has been defiled by the liberals as the "recovery in the district of Mödling". – For these detectors, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, at least you bear the culpa in eligendo, the blame in choosing the person concerned! They bear the responsibility for after-sales weeks and months of attempts to cover up a huge scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] It was a ghastly attempt to hide truth! Their party president, Haider, was warned for the first time in 1994, and Haider knew and hid all the details of this scandal. You have the financial responsibility to bear here! You have to admit that you do not want to repay loans, although you have been counted to your accounts, that house buyers have been cheated, and that Rosenstingl has only been able to do the business he has done in which he has cheated on innocent people because he has acted under the impression of the seriality of your mandate. Ladies and gentlemen! Also the dizziness with the "glass party" is only too transparent! This contract, which you want to conclude with the citizens, is old, known and basically empty! A Salzamt will at best spread terror in its own party in the future, because Josek, the so-called Citizen's lawyer, whom you have used, sees himself, as he himself clearly said, as a free-forward! – There is nothing independent! If it corresponds to free interests, it will be dealt with! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is to be observed and observed is freedom of choice: On the one hand, reference legal contentment is explained outwardly, on the other hand, the disassembly is done by Stadler via Schimanek to Rauter. On the one hand, it is explained that everything will be made better, even in the case of housing services, on the other hand, fraud against home buyers of the liberal housing cooperatives is taking place. On the one hand, there is the finding that everything will be clarified, on the other hand there will be continued exchange. – I could add some examples in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! Rosenstingl will soon, I am convinced, sit on the indictment bench – and with him Jörg Haider, the leader of political immorality!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2732	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously requested the Assembly of the National Council to submit to the Constitutional Court a request for the award of the mandate to Mr Rosenstingl. – I believe it is important to stress: We make the request, but we will decide an independent court! That's right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many fellow citizens ask themselves: Why is this honourable Member still a Member? Why does all this take so long? He fled! The accusations are very massive. In his own party, in whose chief bodies he was represented, he is described as a Gauner. The FPÖ calls Mr Rosenstingl a Gauner! People ask themselves: Why is he still a Member of Parliament? [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't say half-truths!]] Then you said he'd be a guessed gullible! I read in the Minutes that it was said that Mr Rosenstingl was a very common Gauner. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An all-ordinary Gauner!]] I personally do not want to make such claims from here, because until a court has decided on it, it is considered innocent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's a Gauner anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why must such a strenuous procedure be carried out? . This arrangement exists so that a Member cannot be arbitrarily accepted by him. For there may be other times when no democratic government in that country is ruling, and then someone could be arbitrarily denied the mandate. Therefore, we must judge each individual case on the basis of the circumstances and make it clear that not every extraditional and not every investigational reason is that someone is given a mandate, but that the sum of the circumstances is decisive in each individual case. – In the present case, very concrete indications justify the suspicion: probably escape abroad and no return when he was discovered and had the opportunity to return. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It must be known to the public: Before Rosenstingl was extraditional, he was asked: Do you want to go back to Austria voluntarily? He said: No, no, no, Only then has the detention been imposed. This means that everything else is to be made available to his own account, and I believe that there is no justification for his apologies either. I repeat: We must examine each case carefully. I think that, for example, a detention in Austria would not be a reason to deny someone's mandate. It always depends on the prevailing circumstances. In this case, I think we can say that we have done very carefully and have carefully examined the circumstances of the case of Rosenstingl. We have responded to the objections of his lawyer – Mr Rosenstingl was represented by a lawyer – and we have read all the letters carefully, sent to all Members and discussed at the Presidential Conference. The applicants have given precise reasons why Rosenstingl should be denied the mandate. I believe that the proposal is very well justified, and the People's Party will, of course, agree. However, the case of Rosenstingl has further dimensions: Rosenstingl was the club of the Freedom Party of Austria, and in this context of course the question arises whether one can say so easily: He's a Gauner, we exclude him, we wash our hands in innocence and have nothing more to do with it! The question arises whether the appropriate care was given to the selection and control of this official and whether the FPÖ has set the strict standards by which all the others – the government, other parties, the administration – are in themselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The extent of the knitting of the head of the Austrian Freedom Party and the FPÖ Lower Austria is still unclear. Here too, the presumption of innocence applies. But much is said about the fact that the claims are correct, that they have been schemed to cover up. It is awaiting what the court proceedings do in this regard. However, it is clear – and this cannot be concealed – that the liberals do not deal correctly with public money. They have a deputy clubman who does not cover the clubman's content, and they have a clubman who is referring to the clubman's content and is not there. The latter is a third of the time and two thirds of the time is absent. – I don't think that's right! I do not know if it is true, but I have heard that Mr Klubobmann Stadler is improving the level of Clubobmann in solvents. This would mean that public funds are paid twice for a function. To this end, I would like to say clearly: I don't think that's right! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected those who proposed the later clubcassier Rosenstingl for the political functions and for the mandate to make him a clubcassier and then throw him out again, namely Jörg Haider as a partyobmann and Ewald Stadler as his clubman, to take responsibility for it. But nothing similar has happened in the last three months. The politically and effectively responsible Haider and Stadler did not have the courage to confess to their responsibilities and to admit that they – months earlier warned and informed – also bear personal responsibility as their co-consul!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2846	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Bauer. – He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e2876	That's true sometimes, Mrs. Colleague! It's supposed to happen sometimes! But sometimes you're happy about it! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, who meant that the circumstances were whether, after 30 days of lack in the House, someone would accept his mandate or not. – Ladies and gentlemen, That's exactly the wound point! That's exactly the point that makes me think – I don't have a legally formed mind, but hopefully about something intellect – in this matter. What does that mean, "it depends on the circumstances"? Mr Khol meant – and I think this is a particularly obscene example – if Mr XY was in prison in Austria, then you would see things differently. - I'm wondering: What is the difference as to whether he is resident abroad or in the country? I guess that's not what it's all about. I do not want to go further into this matter as a non-judicial, just say that I have certain concerns in this decision. However, I say quite clearly that there can be no misunderstandings or misinterpretations, that my group and I, too, personally will give the consent to the initiation of the withdrawal procedure, because we do not want to suspend the suspicion – which you of course construct immediately – that we want to retain Mr Rosenstingl on his mandate! It has been reserved for you by SPÖ and ÖVP, for political reasons, if you need to see exactly the other way around and act exactly the other way around, in the case of Mr Gratzer in Lower Austria. It has originally abandoned its mandate, but then it has been decided that a withdrawal from the resignation is possible. There you see it quite differently again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why do you see it differently in this case? – Because They expect more political small money from a former FPÖ member on the mandate than from the one who, as a private man, looks forward to an arbitrary procedure. That is not interesting. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are your motivations, always and every time! You turn and spin it as you need it, today the gigl, tomorrow the Gagl. You put one hat on today and the other one tomorrow, as you fit into your party political stuff! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The question of the rule of law, the issue of seriality in the assessment of a difficult, sensitive issue is not the first point on your list. That does not mean that you do not deal with it. But first of all, your party policy and your party policy goals are listed. Mr Kostelka really celebrated what matters here. He has lost one, two sentences on the fundamental question, and then he has gone into medias res or into what he understands as "medias res" on this matter, namely the FPÖ and, above all, the clubman of the FPÖ, Haider. [[Abg. Fox: You can't, he's not here!]] That is the only goal of the whole company, why we need to negotiate this Causa prima of the Republic as the first item on the agenda and talk about child pornography after midnight! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the real reason: So that this story can still be written and reported, just as we do – of course, Mrs. Fuchs, Mrs. Fuchs, of course! – have experienced for weeks: [[New call for tender Fox]] The media close to you or to work for you every day – every day! – reports on Mr Rosenstingl from Fortaleza. In particular, it was not reported what Mr Rosenstingl wanted to eat there, but otherwise every Rülpser there was worth a big report, especially for the state radio and also for the postille "NEWS". [[Abg. Fuchs: This has never happened before in this Republic! That is why the media have accepted this too!]] Of course! But you continue! They deliver the material again to continue this. But I understand this to a certain degree: Mr. Rosenstingl is your supposed political straw. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] That's it! Of course! Mrs Karlsson! [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The whipping boys are still here!]] I understand: Losing more than ten years You'll have every choice! Every election for more than ten years! For more than ten years you have not grown a single herb against the constant growth and strength of the FPÖ, and thank God – from your point of view, of course, thank God! – there is for the first time in the Second Republic a suspected defrauder, a suspected cheater that can be settled in the dark circle or in the area of FPÖ. After God be thank you, finally have or believe you have something, you believe you have found a supposed savior in your political need. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: (on the ranks of the Freeman wise) There is still one who is condemned in the first instance!]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The Meischberger will catch it!]] I say one to you, Mrs Karlsson: One notices the intention – and I am not even voting, because the public also notices it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you will be deceived, Mr Rosenstingl will not help you out of your political permanence, because, Mrs Karlsson, the FPÖ has acted quickly and consistently: [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The Meischberger is still here!]] Party exclusion, exclusion from the National Council club in the event of facts, persons who have neglected their control task, have resigned or have put their mandates to rest until the matter is resolved, disclose our party finances – we are still waiting for the disclosure of your club finances, Mrs Karlsson –, Party reform towards glass party funds and, above all, democracy agreement with the citizen. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The Schimanek has resigned? It's new to me!]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] No, there's nothing to laugh about. You laugh today, but I guarantee you, in a few years you will copy it, because nothing else remains to you but to copy it. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: You can't laugh!]] Indeed, it will continue to strengthen the FPÖ, and you will be able to go back behind us again, to understand this: that, in the event of misbehaviors of freedom of function, free mandates can be brought to justice, and that there are consequences for election promises – something you naturally like. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Yes, "Vienna can't be Chicago"! You can't hold that!]] It pleases you that election promises are respected and accusing, because of course that would be terrible for you. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: Which election promises are you making!]] It would be no longer financially in the world if Mr Vrannitzky had to deliver his election promise to the pensioners. He wouldn't be there anymore! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why, Mrs Karlsson, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and also of the ÖVP: In your long chronicle scandale, you're going through the whole 50-year history of the Second Republic – I don't have the time to list all the things; if you want, I'll just tell you a few names; but no, I don't think I'm allowed anymore, but I could list you several names, 20 names are coming from memory – so with this chronicle scandale you should increase a little less and smooth your feathers that have been pushed off artificially. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: You have a big but short!]] That would be better for you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3136	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - She has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to forward the following: The Liberals did not insist on this request. We were not particularly concerned that such a request should be made as soon as possible, and not because we do not quite think that anyone with such accusations is not a good business card for Parliament, but there are a number of Members of the Liberals who are not a good business card for Parliament, and yet one cannot take such means. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She knows how mandates get away from the FPÖ, so she did not insist!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: My God, we are glad that the best business card is gone!]] [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] So this alone would not have been it, and above all we do not believe that mandates are, so to speak, in the hands of a party and, therefore, one – this understanding exists here, I know from one's own experience – gives too quick an opportunity to be able to re-occupied. I say it quite openly: The Liberals do not have this interest, so we have not insisted on it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This must be said by someone who took mandates! That must be said by someone who has broken the voter's will!]] However, if it is clearly stated that a Member is unpunished, then of course a deadline will start to run, and then there will be a rule of law - according to the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand, up to the provisions of the Constitution. So I was terribly upset when I read a comment from a lawyer of an industrial company in the "Press" yesterday, which obviously does not have the slightest idea of the legal situation. In connection with the request which is now being dealt with in Parliament, he said: That's how they agreed! If a lawyer hides himself to such a choice of words, I have an ungood feeling, for with it he has assumed that there are some macheloikes being made somewhere. He said that there was only banal party polemics, yes, he even let himself be taken to the choice of words, it was about the elimination of a Member. But now I have to say: In view of Mr Bauer's previous comments, I am no longer surprised by this comment from this lawyer. I do not know who takes Mr Bauer seriously and whether he takes himself seriously when he says things here that contradict each other. This double-beddedness is insurmountable! That means he – he! – mentions that he does not actually know himself. He talks about it – and makes it ridiculous – where the difference is actually between being held abroad and abroad. That's where I have to say: I consent to him as a non-judicial, not to recognize himself, but before making such a decision, one should make himself wise or at least make a little aware so that, in his opinion, one can at least make an expert decision. But do you know what he said? . He said that it was not for him at all that it was not important to him what appropriate decision could be made here, but it would decide the FPÖ for purely – he did not say that – tactical reasons. He said he agreed to the FPÖ so that it could not be assumed that... – That is to say, he has admitted here to express himself until from this speaker's mouth: to make a tactical decision instead of making an appropriate decision, and that in a question which is one of the most serious for Parliament in that the rejection of the mandate for a Member really goes to the mark of parliamentarianism. In view of this, a Member of Parliament is making himself up and saying: We make a tactical decision because we don't let anything go! Justice? - I don't need it! I do not know myself as a non-jurisdiction, but that does not matter, because I decide anyway not according to proper considerations, but after tactical! So a clearer revelation – as the so-called lawyer put it in the press – that this is about party tactics, however, about another one, than he accused the other, could not be achieved. I cannot understand the fact that someone who admits this to himself and his group, who has the forehead of putting others in a tactical position, has gone his own way, but the rules of play of this party and of the respective Members have gone their own way. That is why it is actually for me, I must say again on the other hand, not even incomprehensible. However, I would now like to deal with the question of why the Liberals have not only agreed to this request in the main committee, but will also now be voting in plenary. I have some differentiations with colleagues Kostelka and Khol, but this is a side-track, but it seems essential to me to hold it in such a debate. First: The procedure begins to run – I may say it more for the protocol and for some others who listen to it other than the Members, or for those who have not yet thought about it – if someone is unpunished or missing without a valid excuse. That is, after we have found out, after 30 days, that the honourable Member was not present, Parliament, and that has already happened 30 days ago, had to find out whether there is an excuse or whether the reasons for an apology are valid. It has written shortly before the end of the 30-days-frist of the lawyer of Mr Rosenstingl, apologizing that the Member should be held in custody, but that he could not have left the country in the face of escape, and that he should now be prevented from taking part in parliamentary meetings by extradition, and that he has no opportunity to change this situation. But what Dr. Zanger did not say – and I very much regret that because I appreciate him otherwise as a lawyer – was that, in the run-up to this arrest for extradition, Mr Rosenstingl was exempted from returning to Austria. We have admittedly come to know this primarily from the media, and therefore, and I mention this because it is crucial for the voting behaviour of the Liberals, and I would like to say that we are taking this matter very seriously, because we have agreed to the call to take place after 30 days of absence, because we have considered the following: If, over the next 30 days, it became apparent that this was a false report, that is, that Parliamentary Rosenstingl had not been given the opportunity to return to Austria, then we would not make a request to the Constitutional Court. If it turns out that there is still any other reason which Dr. Zanger has not yet made clear, then we would not apply to the Constitutional Court. That is to say, 30 days ago, it was only a matter of calling on Mr Rosenstingl to appear. Now another 30 days have passed, and nothing else has happened in this, except that a new letter – now another lawyer and legal representative of the former FPÖ member Rosenstingl – has arrived, in which he does not claim a new circumstance, but only refers to the fact that his distance is justified by the duration of extradition and that whatever is available to him would now perceive any possibility to change this condition. Nothing else. That is, he insists on it only: permanent extradition. Now there's something left, and that's the core of the whole thing. After our first decision 30 days ago, we wanted to make authentic at both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – and to make it notable, as it is so beautiful – whether it is true that the honourable Member Rosenstingl had been given the opportunity to leave Austria. Yes, he had the opportunity! The Minister of Justice expressly writes that the report of Austrian police officers sent to Brazil shows that Parliamentary Rosenstingl has been arrested – and since it is necessary to know that the first arrest is only due to an international arrest warrant, that has nothing to do with extradition – and that, in the case of a voluntary return to Austria, he has been given the prospect of being arrested at the same time. There he has, you hear, said first, yes, he wants. But then, in addition to this international arrest warrant, there was also a warrant for extradition. These are two different things. But that is where the Minister of Justice – and this is also an essential point – says that the arrest warrant of the judge of the District Court from Vienna had only been handed over to the local police authorities and to Mr Rosenstingl after he had withdrawn his declaration to return to Austria voluntarily. That is to say, it has now been made aware that it is authentic that Mr Rosenstingl had the opportunity to come to Austria, and then – and that is not the judgment of Mr Bauer – the situation would have looked something different. Of course! For if he is in detention here in Austria, he can request that he be presented in order to attend a meeting, and then one should have discussed whether to present him or not, depending on how the court would have decided. So you should have re-examined the validity. This is the situation which is far more difficult than it can clearly be imagined by Mr Bauer and perhaps by some of his colleagues in his group. Only: We have discussed this because such a decision seems to be very important to us, and because we believe that it is necessary to carry out a proper examination, regardless of who and which group of Members is suspected of a crime. These considerations have led to the fact that, according to all that I have said, we have come to the unanimous view that the effectiveness of the excuse has not been given. I now come to my little difference with the opinions of Mr Khol and Mr Kostelka. Mr Kostelka said, among other things, that the case was fulfilled and that the Constitutional Court now had to decide. Similarly, it has also formulated Mr Khol. But I see it differently. I believe that the decision to make Parliament's request is already being made on the basis of an in-depth examination. This means that Parliament will only make this request if, on the content of the matter, it considers that the correctness of the excuse is not given. But – and that is very important to me – the decision that the mandate will then be accepted is only taken by the Constitutional Court of Justice to review this argument. That is to say, only and only then, if the Constitutional Court considers that the validity of the excuse is not given, will the mandate be recognized. It is therefore by no means a formal act, but it is a decision by Parliamentarians, and I therefore regret that there is obviously a whole group here which does not deal with this issue properly. Perhaps it is just a few Members of this group, I do not know. After all, Mr Bauer was the first speaker of his party, and it should therefore be assumed that he is also about articulated by the opinion of his group, and this statement of speech has shown that there is no proper consideration in his party in this regard, but a tactical consideration – "only so as not to blame us". But that this party does not carefully deal with Parliamentary bodies and that it is not worthy of the mandate of the individual, it has already proved on other occasions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3279	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. – You have the floor, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3301	Mr President. High house! The rapporteur, Mr Bauer, has meant – he is no longer there, but that doesn't matter to me, he doesn't really bother me – the meaning of this debate, the real intention of this debate is to adapt the party chairman of the Freedom Party. [[Call: It's no longer there]] I think that if anyone here has patched, it was the people themselves who were hopped around in the fat cups, that it sprayed properly. The leaping point – where the big inconsistencies are – is the concept of political responsibility. I can recall many very intense debates in this House, where officials of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party have shown alleged or actual abuses, where, with urgent requests and urgent questions, members of the Federal Government have been questioned or verbally attacked and accused of having taken control in their place not enough seriously. Among other things, it was also Parliamentary Rosenstingl, who here, for example, in connection with the Vienna Airport, often spoke of this speaker's seat, that he would take care of cleanliness, so that this beautiful Austria – according to Rosenstingl – would be cleaned of dirt. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: With Butz and Stingel!]] At that time, the FPÖ – I say: right! – the person responsible for the department requires that they know what is happening in their place of business, that they know which persons carry out tasks in key positions, and that they bear the responsibility if these persons act unfairly or uneconomically. That is, the concept of political responsibility, Mr Ofner, as you have repeatedly demanded from the coalition parties – that was quite clear... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Perhaps you see this differently today, it may already be that the Causa Rosenstingl has done a lot in connection with the deck and the lawyer with you. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Cite me literally!]] Mr Ofner! I don't know why you're distanced from the line of your party. This seems to have something to do with your contracts; what you have to say is that you also signal your calls. Your whole group, including your person, has always understood political responsibility, and I would be obliged to do so: He or she should have known. [[Abg. Smolle: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Ofner) You signed that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You used to be very sweet! But now please sit down, Karl!]] Political responsibility means that a person who has power at the head of a administration or a government apparatus is automatically responsible for what happens in the authority concerned, which persons are selected there, what they do, what she informs the head of the department or the head of the department, and if something goes wrong, the political responsibility of the respective head of the department or head of the department shall be addressed. The Greens have always assumed this concept of political responsibility, and we have often complained that in Austria, too, members of the government have shown a somewhat careless handling of political responsibility. But what has happened in the ranks of the Freedom Party is really adventurous. At the same time, the terms are put on the head: This is not a question of what has actually happened, and for which of course someone – and this is precisely someone who likes to be a powerful person in his own ranks – is responsible, but at one time it is demanded to prove to the executive clubman what has actually happened. Letters were received, which were found to have come to Mr. Rosenstingl in some way; they were addressed to Dr. Haider. He claims that he has never seen them and can therefore never take note of them. What would you have said to a minister who would have told you here from the government bank: I didn't read this report, I didn't know it!Unknown term type: "%s".? – You would have said that doesn't count that he has to inform himself. - But it's different with you. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: What do you think they'd say if no one was sitting on the government bench?]] It is also quite significant: In the moment when none of you said no more that there was information about the Causa Rosenstingl – I am not talking about 1994 and not about autumn or winter 1997, but about the spring that you knew about it – your financial referent Trattner also said on TV: Yeah, we talked about it at a club meeting! But what did your partyobmann do? – He got on a plane and flew to Taiwan when the debate started. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would have liked to hear the contributions from the Liberal Group if the chancellor or vice-president had acted in this way. You ransacked in this house! [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] So something that is very unpleasant is happening, and I also understand that a party observer wants to withdraw from this very unpleasant debate. But not even when he returns, since he cannot stay in Taiwan permanently, he can once be so open to say: Yes, we have chosen a wrong person, we have not taken the control in our own ranks seriously! , no, but then at once comes the very strange round envelope, the world conspiracy, then at once it is the fire brigade that may be listening to some mixed frequency – perhaps the Lord Jung knows particularly well – then suddenly come the dark powers that it has to the party keeper. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] I would have liked to hear your speeches if this had occurred in a mirror somewhere in the ranks of the government parties. – That is really unfair and dishonest! [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] How did you react, for example, if a minister has given funding – I can remember your contributions in the so-called Causa Caspar One – if someone has just met anyone, was somewhere, perhaps with someone in a picture? - All of this was political responsibility for you. It's quite different with your own top functionaries. You say you did the Causa. [[Abg. Smoking callat: You don't even listen!]] What would you have asked for in the same case on the side of the government? Would you have demanded that Officer XY resign, or would you have demanded that the Head of Division withdraw? What did that mean, Dr. Ofner, in this case? Wouldn't you have... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why do you always look at me?]] [[Abg. Smoking Call: You are the only one who listens!]] Dr. Ofner! I look at you because it was a very short time ago, in an election campaign – I can remember exactly – to see your portrait: the lawyer and the detector. You've been very proud to be pictured for an election campaign – for an election campaign! This is the next point I have to make in terms of political responsibility. In an election campaign in which you knew – there you have, colleague Bauer shows you that – that there are irregularities, you have gone your way and have not said a word to voters. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer keeps a copy up]] – This is political unreasonableness! [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's a premise! That's not true!]] Mr Ofner! I don't know how many times you're at your own club sessions. I have heard Mr Trattner say on television that in the autumn of last year you talked about Rosenstingl-Kredite at the club meeting. [[Abg. Boy: You didn't pay attention to that!]] Where's your financial officer today? The partyobmann is not there, the executive clubman is not there, the financial officer is not there. Where is your political responsibility as a group? [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You know, it's not the dark powers, and it's not like you're so cryptically suggesting on the posters that there's anyone in your way, but it's you yourself, sitting in very thin-walled glasshouses and constantly throwing around with huge rocks. They themselves understand all the terms in their own house differently from those of the political competitors. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please, don't look at me again!]] That makes you unbelievable, and that's what you're putting yourself in the way. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Ofner! One more thing: It was not so, especially when it came to responsibility, that some Members of your group – I think that Rosenstingl was there too – were very much in favour of this speaker's report, but may the Federal Government protect innocent people from damage. This was related to a Graz bank – the BHI bank – which has become insolvency through a seemingly not very happy business policy, perhaps also through speculation transactions. Private investors have been harmed. We have dealt with several urgent instruments, which came from the Freemans, here in this House, where it has always been called: The government must ensure that innocent people are not harmed! They asked for this, although the government had nothing to do with the insolvency of this bank. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The Freeman and the Club have the damage!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We are the injured! We're the victims!]] They demanded that innocent people not be harmed. Now you have a case in your own ranks, but there you are not innocent, because you have placed Mr Rosenstingl on your electoral lists. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We have the damage!]] It is precisely because Mr Rosenstingl had a mandate because, of course, business banks were also able to rely on the fact that someone from a party who always acts as a scandalist would probably be fair, that you did not allow this damage to happen properly. But I do not hear that the Freedom Party of Lower Austria is willing to cover all the loans received by Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: opposite the club! We're the victims!]] In other words, you act quite differently in your own ranks than in the government. [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They have brought a lot of distraction maneuvers – from the fire brigade to I don't know what – here permanently in other debates. They have also repeatedly raised the right to power. But I'll tell you the following: If you are not even prepared to find some word of self-criticism with a fiber, not even in a moment – and that is what the party is about as far as the group is concerned, because it is not an isolated suspected individual perpetrator, but a control failure, it is political responsibility – if you, especially your top officials, are not able to express it even self-critically, then you are completely unable to take over any responsible office in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3618	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3674	Mr President. Federal Minister! – There is currently no one present, but this is not necessary either, since it is only an internal matter of the House. – Ladies and gentlemen! The excitement doesn't have to be so dramatic, Mr. Jung, because one thing is clear: For those who do not wish to exercise their mandates, who do not want to perform partouts – what is true of the Commissioner Rosenstingl – there is a request for a loss of mandate as a penalty from the House, with none, as has already been done, of the content of the decision. The decision on the subject will only be taken by the Constitutional Court, but it will be made clear in this case that the procedure adopted by Mr Rosenstingl - the ex-Freedom of Rosenstingl - cannot be seen by this House. It is undisputed, and it will find a preliminary conclusion today with the votes of the Liberals. I am only annoyed by the fact that the honourable Member, Mr Bauer, is going out of here and so much so in response to what has been said: Yes, but we have now made a democratic treaty with which we make it clear that we want nothing to do with all these things! – He has kept silent about the fact that, as it was designed, he now hangs on the gang of his party leader, the secretary-sclique, who has already been massively criticized within the Freedom Party, and he has not referred to the fact that it is in FPÖ fashion whenever difficulties arise to conclude contracts. For example, this was the case with Mr Haider when he had difficulties with Candussi in Carinthia – the honourable Member Posch will know – at the time he said: Let's make a contract. You don't say anything, and I'll sign a contract with you! But also then, as Mr Haider, who prefers to stay in the United States today, and always when there are important things to talk about here... [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Is that a good reason?]] Whenever there is something important to discuss here, it is a good reason for Haider not to be here. It is no reason not to assume his responsibility, but for him it is a good reason not to be here, because then, when it comes to something important, he prefers to keep himself out. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I still remember exactly the following: When it came to the head of the Carinthian state, it was right and cheap for him to conclude a contract, which is about who gets, who has what positions to occupy. Mr Haider was, of course, prepared to conclude contracts. This is also something that he highly criticizes with others, but that he himself is very happy to do. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to highlight a little of what it looks like within this group, within this party, which today simply wants to push away the responsibility, which says that there is nothing really at all about political links, I would also like to remind you of this pult, as it has been in Innsbruck. There has even been a real democratic treaty, namely that of those who worked there on the ground. You said: We no longer want to allow statutes to be broken so that party funds are wrongly used differently than planned. They have concluded a democratic treaty among themselves. This has, of course, just been warranted by the Federal Party with exclusion, and therefore nothing is left of the Freedom Party in Innsbruck today. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Contract is not contract!]] All of them were excluded because a contract was concluded which stated that they wanted the statutes to be respected for the correct use of public funds. This is always worth an exclusion from a Freedom Party. The democratic treaty, on which honourable Member Bauer has called today, is a really important means and should not be less assessed from this pult either. This is even so important that when the Landtagsreitte Rüdiger Stix is criticized, he is immediately excluded. [[Abg. Jung: He criticized it before he saw it!]] He was immediately excluded, Mr Jung, by fax. He was excluded by fax! You have not even heard him, you have not even asked him because a democratic treaty must not be criticised. That is why Mr Rüdiger Stix, who did this, was immediately excluded. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know what I have noticed in the last few days with Mrs Povysil! I wonder how she was actually brought to submit this urgent request – that Mrs Povysil, who always felt that we could talk to her in some way, but she still has something left to think about in this House too. It is clear how to break the backbone of the people within the group. This happened to her, too, Mr. Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Brauneder: No, not at all!]] I'll tell you what mentality this results from. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] Karl! I'll tell you what mentality this results from: This comes from a mentality that Dissin sees as betrayal, and that is something that has now taken place within the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is no longer recognized that there is something that simply has to be assessed – for itself. Mrs Partik-Pablé was the one who went out of here today and said: What distinguishes us from the others is that, if something happens, we immediately draw the consequences from it! There is a need to look at the consequences when they are drawn. With Mr. Noch-Deputy Rosenstingl – that has already been said today – it was like this: It was found in November 1997 that there were difficulties. Mr Stadler, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, knew that this was what Mr President-in-Office of the Council knew. The FPÖ, which stands for control and which controls hard – especially the others and the displeasing – has immediately said to Rosenstingl: Make it all right! So they transferred control to those who seem to have difficulty in acting correctly. You don't do anything about it yet, but you just say: You're doing that, you're gonna be fine! It wasn't until seven months later, when the actual measure of damage was known, that he was dropped like a hot potato and said: That's none of our business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] That's nothing more for us than that, you say, he's being excluded. Mr Ofner! It was Mr Stadler who said here at the speaker's desk that Rosenstingl was a very common Gauner. There was no presumption of innocence or anything else about which one wanted to discuss differently, but it was clarified as follows: For the liberals, Rosenstingl is a Gauner, and that is why you have to take very consistent action! But if one has such a consequence and such a deep sense of political responsibility, then I do not understand that, for example, those persons and those institutions that have been damaged by the RFW have been received by borrowing loans that are now no longer repaid, in the final analysis, will definitely be taken away by the Freedom Party, which also decides to disband the RFW. They say: We do a good thing, there are debts that we might have to repay, but we have a much better idea: We are aware of our political responsibility so that we can resolve the RFW, and with that there is no one left to hold on to it. This is a process that ultimately shows what you really mean, and one that is still sitting here today has already been shown. This is Mr Meischberger. With the help of small savers, he tried a little tax evasion, so the indictment has declared. The court in first instance followed and sentenced him. While Members of the Rosenstingl, for whom – which has often been noted by the liberals – are still subject to the presumption of innocence, has been immediately excluded, Mr Meischberger is still sitting on his mandate in this House. Still! But no one within the Freedom Party comes up with the idea of saying: Wait, that's not a double measure!Unknown term type: "%s".? Are we not going to be disbelievable with this? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] Or perhaps it is just that Mr Meischberger knows even more than Mr Rosenstingl could ever know. That is why it was easy to rule out Mr Rosenstingl, especially as he sits above the large pond, while Mr Meischberger can still be here today. Somewhere it is deeply unfair – and this should actually move the Lower Austrian Members – that Mr Mentil, for whom no lance is to be broken here, not because of his voting behaviour – he went twice in the election, although he knows that it was not allowed to – should go, but only because of the situation in Lower Austria had to relinquish his mandate. This was also the case with Schreiner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] That, says Karl Schweitzer, is political responsibility. The fact that Mr Meischberger is still sitting here is also political responsibility. That Mr. Landesrat Schimanek also becomes the head of the Freedom Party of Lower Austria, after having played a significant role in using public funds incorrectly within the framework of the liberal housing society and not in helping people to live in apartments, but only in giving their own party friends good orders, ladies and gentlemen, no one can be explained anymore. [[We welcome the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] It should therefore be borne in mind that the group in which the political quality of the hand has been lost has apparently resorted to written contracts and that this House is well advised to present the case of Mr Rosenstingl to the Constitutional Court because it cannot be considered that a person who is nonchalant in his duties in the House is simply given to the speaker by the liberals and does not shoulder his own political responsibility. It is not the case that this House is not responding in this regard. On the contrary: It is necessary to act here, and it was also useful to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3798	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e3820	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, What is the reason for the fact that the leaders of this party are not involved in this debate, which concerns a representative of the electoral party 'The Freeman'? What is the reason why neither Mr Klubobmann Stadler nor Party Chairman Haider nor Financial Representative Trattner nor any other official other than the first speaker and only speaker of the party is taking part in a debate in which the political responsibility of the electoral party "The Freedoms", whose member Mr Rosenstingl is still in the foreground, is in the foreground? Ladies and gentlemen! The reason is obviously that you want to demonstrate openly that the liberals do not want to exercise any political responsibility or have no political responsibility. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The reason why you are not taking part in this debate, but on the other hand you are using a debate on child abuse in order to divert from this point of the agenda to your political responsibility, is indeed your unscrupulousness, with which you are prepared to deal with emotions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is a disgrace to this debate and to the fact that you are abstaining from it at the same time that the media are discussing it. You want to cook a little about child pornography and emotions here, so I ask you: How is it possible that free-lance functionals have taken access to a pornography provider on the Internet more often than a thousand times? That's the reality! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] Here you discuss child abusers, child pornography, and at the same time is reported in the media, in today's press that you and Their party obviously has a massive interest in accessing pornography providers. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is nonsense!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm still wondering, What's behind your tactics? I wonder because this poster, which I know to you, Mr Ofner, you know – the last time it has shown – is a newspaper, namely the "Freedom of the Church" – obviously does not only have historical significance. [[The speaker holds a large note in the height]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It's not a poster, it's a newspaper!]] There it says: The lawyer and the detector! Of course, we know that Mr Rosenstingl has lost his image as a detector – at least as a direct detector – but at least he reveals a lot indirectly about the conditions in your party. But it's not just about this historical relationship, which means: Rosenstingl – Ofner! I wonder what reason there is for this, Mr Ofner, that you were not only on the political stage in the past, but also in the background of Mr Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... the profession as a lawyer does not cover!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] What is behind your tactics that you do not agree to the extradition request and the desire for the Constitutional Court for legal reasons – Mr Bauer has made this very clear – but only on the basis of tactical considerations? At the same time, however, by a lawyer... – please – who, with the support of a FPÖ member, takes up his activity for Mr Rosenstingl, will prevent the return of this Mr Rosenstingl. [[the speaker folds his note together again]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't close! Leave it open!]] [[the speaker keeps his large note back in height]] [[The speaker folds his paper together again.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: May I see you again! Again!]] Has Are you interested in preventing the return of this Mr Rosenstingl? What interest is there in this if you and the circle of friends of Peter Rosensting are at the same time seeking to accuse justice as a political justice and Parliament as a political Parliament? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Show it again! I want to see it again!]] In Brazil, the circle of friends Peter Rosenstingls and the lawyer, whom you have also helped to organize, appear as those who accuse this Parliament of Peter Rosenstingly being handed over to the political arbitrarily justice in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Show it again, please!]] That's the problem! This brings me to the remarks of Mr Barmüller, who has just mentioned Mr Schimanek very briefly, to Mr Schimanek from Lower Austria, who is not only politically unfit as the national councillor, but also as the national spokesman of the liberals, because he was involved in a residential building causa, but also because, not because he is the father of the son of Schimanek, in connection with the condemnation of his son for neo-Nazi re-activating, he has designated Austrian justice as a political arbitrariness and has also organized a group of friends to free his son from the traps of this political justice. These are the circumstances and the interrelationships, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which seem to be interesting to you and to you alike. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please show the paper again!]] On the one hand, it is a question of presenting yourself here as a lamb of innocence, having great interest in making the application to the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, and on the other hand, with the support of your party friends, I assume, that it is from Brazil and this Parliament to be a political arbitrary instrument, and that you are trying to make a mood against justice and against Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The newspaper please again! I want to see her!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please show me the paper again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To make it short, Mr Vanner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Show me the paper again!]] That is political responsibility, and that is political unscrupulousness! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Please read the paper again!]] And it is significant that, at the end of the debate, those responsible for this party who are responsible for it are still not present.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4088	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4115	Ibiza is a good keyword! – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I am called the "Ibiza" by the Social Democratic Party. I know that this is about the debate on Rosenstingl, but I do allow this to be taken up in two sentences. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! There is an open letter from your Federal Managing Director Rudas, which I quote in turn. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Moment: in alternation of a term. This is FPÖ, I'm setting up SPÖ. SPÖ: Too stupid for netsurfing? – I reply: Yes, too stupid for netsurfing, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's an order call!]] I'll give you the address, because the expressions from the Internet you mentioned here are so nice. The address is: http://ibiza.online.com/index.drei.html. Only a link from any other network can be added. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You offer it!]] Mr Kostelka! That's your way of establishing connections that don't exist! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (a poster holding high) Finally admit! Don't discuss that!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] When it comes to pursuing state support for pornography on the Internet, you dispute links between the Federal Chancellery and the providers of pornography. Mr Kostelka! SPÖ: Too stupid for netsurfing? - That's right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You're too stupid to read!]] Now to the case of Rosenstingl: The opposition parties also complain that the case of Rosenstingl has not been made transparent. Ladies and gentlemen! I remind you of the following: It was the Freedom Party that submitted an application for the establishment of an Investigation Committee. And who rejected this request, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka? Who has rejected the application for the setting up of a committee of inquiry in this case? – You have rejected the request! [[Abg. Wabl: Russian Mafia!]] The Freedom Party has made a request for the examination of the parties by the Court of Auditors so that we can review the 33 million schilling transaction. Mr Kostelka! Who rejected this request? – The request was rejected by you! – So much for transparency, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smoking call: Mr. Schweitzer! Then we will find out what the Freedom Party pays for the judicial punishments of Mr. Haider!]] The fact is: The studies still to be carried out are summarized in this convoluted, which is very thick: from Androsch to Zimper. [[Abg. Smoking-Kallat: Of what do the liberals pay the judicial punishments of Mr. Haider?]] – You, too, are present in it. There's a lot of work going on, Mrs Rauch-Kallat-Mensdorff-Pouilly, there's still a lot of work waiting. But when it comes to your areas, then don't keep a lot of work-up, then don't think much of transparency! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smoking-Kallat: Of what do the liberals pay the judicial punishments of Mr. Haider?]] The FPÖ has responded. 7. May 1998 Peter Rosenstingl will be excluded from FPÖ immediately after specific facts have been found. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: What was in March?]] [[Abg. Smoking callat: Too late!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] 11th@item: inlistbox May 1998: Peter Rosenstingl will be excluded from the National Free Council club at the earliest possible time. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Too Late Reacts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has assumed responsibility by completely redefine political responsibility. [[Abg. Smoking callat: Too late!]] We have completed a liability insurance for the voters. You're going to copy it, I'm convinced! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Where's Haider?]] We have created glass checkouts for all areas of the party. We are progressing with good example, you only need to follow us, ladies and gentlemen! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: You need them too!]] We have already signed the democratic treaty that hurts you because you are unable to do so because you are accustomed to not comply with the constituencies you make before elections! Ladies and gentlemen! If you were to follow the glass-clear line of the liberals in the Causa Rosenstingl, then we could work these things up, from Androsch to Zimper! [[Ironic Rejoicing]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4415	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4445	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Dear friends of the Freedom Party, if there are such still in this House! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals do not seem to me to be friends of the Freedom Party, otherwise they would be more concerned that this party will finally be washed up by the accusations about Mr Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Have your own concerns!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! In Salzburg, today your non-presenced master has left all functionals in the first row at the same time. Why didn't you repeat that in Lower Austria, where it would have been even more necessary than in Salzburg? Allow me to give you a small example of what the Freedom Party in Carinthia or its supervisor is responsible for. We know that the country house was artistically designed by Grandfather Kolig Anton The Nazis destroyed these works of art. Due to a unanimous decision of the state government and also of the Landtag, a jury was assigned to make the call for artistic redesign. The grandson Kolig Cornelius was unanimously assigned the design of the country house. The next day a newspaper with a monarchist name published an inconvenient article against the grandson of Kolig. The next day, FPÖ-Haider said: Of course, we're against Kolig. – So there are three decisions per colig. The "Kronen Zeitung" says: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Freedom Party also says no, Kolig is not in question. – This is the way you deal with art! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The thing doesn't interest you, you just care about tactics every day and the question: Do we appear accordingly in the relevant media? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your signature under the democracy treaty – now I have to express myself in North German – is not worth a pepper, in Austrian said: is not even worth an egg swam! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The FPÖ is becoming more and more the leafed rose, but you can say: Every rose's stingl!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4511	No one is reported in the word anymore. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the seats. We shall vote, and we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in 1380. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign. . I note that the request to the Constitutional Court was unanimously decided by the National Council. That is the first item on the agenda. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1234 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (55. Novelle to the ASVG) (1365 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1237 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (26. Novelle to the B-KUV) (1366 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 633/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Co-operatives on the contribution of employees to social security (1367 of the supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 265/A by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (1368 of Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 799/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Hauptand comrades on suspension of the application principle and retroactive performance of all the benefits acquired by the Austrian social security system (1369 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 474/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Co-operatives on the harmonisation of all pension rights and the re-definition of self-employed employment (1370 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 682/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt and comrades on fair pension adjustment – constitutional protection of pensions (1371 of supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 697/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt and comrades concerning the permanent guarantee of pensions by switching to a three-pillar model (1372 of supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 729/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on the establishment of a uniform pension card valid throughout Germany (1373 of the supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1236 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (22. Novelle to the BSVG) (1374 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (1375 of Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 655/A by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (1376 of Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 539/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on the establishment of occupational protection for permanent incapacity for work for farmers and traders (1377 of the supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1235 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Commercial Social Security Act (23. Novelle to the GSVG) (1378 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1238 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the German Social Insurance Act (11. Novelle to the FSVG) (1379 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4771	We come to points 2 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no need for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the discussions immediately. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Herbert Haupt. He has a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4804	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The 55. ASVG-Novelle, which is in the process of decision-making today, could have been decided and adopted with the same substrate, with the same content and also with the same changes 14 days ago – if there had not been the unfortunate junkimization of the fields of dentists and house pharmacies. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why you are the 55. ASVG-Novelle in its other substances rather want to hide: Most of these 55. ASVG-Novelle is nothing more than legal improvements which were made at the last and the last decision, 53 and 54. ASVG-Novelle, have been "bubbled". The then criticism of the opposition parties, but also the criticism of the review procedures, were once again sacrificed on the altar of the grand coalitionary belief in having leased the truth on its own. The fact is that we now have to comply with all these corrections, and I think this is a good thing, Mr Feurstein, because insight is the first way to improve. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's also right what some newspapers have written: What do the apprentices, the farmers, the widows, the orphans, the young entrepreneurs have to do with the dentists and with the stuck tooth replacement, what do they have to do with a law concerning house pharmacies, which has been adopted today in the Health Committee? In practice, they have nothing to do with it. The legal changes that have been made are the same as they have been agreed at government level for a long time. It has also been clear and clearly demonstrated that the debate has actually been blocked by two things: the junkimation and the second, the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Both have not been decided in this form by the substance in the government, and therefore the negotiations have been delayed accordingly. I believe that, with the whole debate, Parliament, but also the population, has been offered a rather pitiful game. It was not funny to go to Vienna again and again, then after 5 or 10 minutes, to learn that there are no changes and we can go home again, and then to read in the newspapers that the Social Committee is biting its teeth, which has been negotiated in the Social Committee from the substance only at the last session. You will give me the right, Madam President Reitsamer: Unfortunately, we have not been asked about the substance in committee. The desire to provide information, for example that of Mr Kier in a subcommittee or that of us in a full committee, has been ignored. Many of the positions we have acquired in private discussions with all the other political groups. The newspapers wrote that we had been negotiating in the substance. This is simple and simply false. We have always been informed that nothing is going on in the substance, and that is why the meeting has ended. I would therefore like to make two amendments today from a liberal point of view, first of all with an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! You know that I presented the amendment and the motion for a resolution to you in the committee yesterday, in order not to provoke an ad hoc decision in plenary, but to enable you to consult today on our requests, including in the bodies, in the club meetings. I hope you will at least accept one of the amendments, the amendment or the motion for a resolution. For I believe that these in the substance also improve so-called occupational diseases, for example when people of the rescue services and the Red Cross become infected with infectious diseases and become inability to work in their established profession. That is quite a justified idea of our liberals. The fact that the public prosecutor's criticism needs to be met to a greater extent than your legal measures you want to adopt today is, I believe, obvious. I also believe that our proposal for dental ambulatorys, which is formulated in the resolution, is a fairer one. On the one hand, the dental ambulatorys are virtually enabled by this rod in the window concerning unconventional conditions and similar areas to offer a complete offer, but on the other hand, it is also ensured that cross-subsidisation in this area is not possible. This means that the 5 percent ambulatory-treated patients will not be subsidized by the 95 percent of the contributors in an insurance scheme through cross-subsidisation. I believe that this would be contrary to the principle of insurance in Austria. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e4978	Both requests, both the motion for a resolution and the amendment, have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5003	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can believe that I am very glad that the 55. ASVG-Novelle and its accompanying laws can still be passed today. For it contains a whole bunch of important measures, on which the Socialist Group, as well as the group of our government partner, and, I assume, at least partially, there are two opposition groups. There is, on the one hand, the weekly fee for free women, who are now treated like self-insurance women and are to receive a weekly fee of 2,760 s. We have also reaped a great deal of criticism in this matter, including from our own ranks. But I think there are design possibilities for the women concerned. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, that those women who work 38 and 40 hours a week and make a lot of contributions will then be confronted with women who have a lot of design opportunities, who will pay much less and receive the same weekly money. That can't be it, even though I'm at this limited weekly fee for the free girls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is also a need to facilitate the administration of a number of small employees. This is very important in order to be able to carry out what we decided in the ASRAG. An extension of the list of occupational diseases is being made, i.e. an adaptation to the EU list. There is the extended accident insurance for members of rescue organizations such as voluntary fire brigades and Red Cross. There is an option regarding environmental activities: Either you are insured solely for the work of these rescue organizations by 24 S annual contribution, or you pay 30 S annual contribution, and the environmental activities are involved. It was very important to me – and to that I am – that we do something for the "new independence" for self-employed. We also want to support the founding offensive. Therefore, for the first three years of their independence, the beginners' minimum contribution basis for those who are insured for the first time in the GSVG is reduced by almost half, namely from 13 700 S to 7 400 S. Another important point is the reform of accident insurance for farmers, namely the possibility of continuing the farm despite an accident at work, and also the extension of employment combinations, as is possible in the agricultural sector. I have already mentioned the technical adaptations to the ASRAG. The list can be continued at any time. But I would like to proceed with time-saving and only deal with the subject of stuck tooth replacement. During the negotiations, I was told again and again that, because of the regulation on stuck tooth replacement, we are virtually preventing the entire ASVG. Mrs Povysil has today accused us of medical ideology. When this law came into consideration, ladies and gentlemen, the dental replacement was a fixed part of the overall package, and there was enough time to prepare for it in negotiations. Some progress has also been made in the negotiations between the medical board and the main association. But the further one has negotiated, the more concessions the main association has made, namely... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] – May I speak out, Mr Kier? I am so fair and let you always talk out, and you have more opportunities to speak here in the house than I am. You have to admit that honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The main association has committed itself to agree to an ambulatory stop: no new ambulatorys and no expansion of the number of treatment chairs in the existing ambulatories. If the main association as well as the doctor's chamber have equally explained that only 5 percent of patients are patients of the ambulatory, then I must say that it can't have been a question of survival for the dentists to allow it. I think it has been a question of the forthcoming medical chamber election. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A large number of approaches have been made to guide tariffs. But if you say, in the case of bridge members, in the crown itself there is the guide rate plus/minus 10 percent, then I must already ask: What about the cast pen, what about any prophecies, what about anaesthesia performances? – When we count this together, we come back to a remarkable sum. That such a guide tariff without an ambulatory system is "talkless" proves to us, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Germany. There is this indicative rate, and it is cheaper than with us – these rules will still be suspended, with more than 40 percent! It has also been said yesterday at the Committee meeting that Germany is providing subsidies for this permanent tooth replacement. That's right. But, ladies and gentlemen, look at the health insurance contributions in Germany and look at the Austrian contributions! Then you will find that these are twice as high in Germany. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you even know what that would cost, if it were a performance of the checkouts, per year? 8 to 10 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen! This would be a contribution increase of at least 1 percent. I would remind you of how "light" it is here in this House to get the approval of contribution increases. I recall the introduction of the health certificate fee: This was the only way at that time to correct the difficulties of social security institutions in order to get back into black figures from red numbers. For a contribution increase that Franz Hums at the time would have liked to have, we would not have received the approval under any circumstances. Mr Hoof has referred to cross-subsidisation. There is a declaration of commitment by the main association to work transparently and not to allow cross-subsidisation. In addition, there is a guarantee to give more money for root treatments, to grant additional dental settlements and not everything. All of this, please, has been unilaterally signed by the main association, it would only have required the counter-drawing. That was the reason why we had to show so much hardness in these negotiations. For if we had decided today to have a party agreement and to submit the request by both government parties without these conditions, then the permanent tooth replacement for the next ten years would have reached a wide, yes, unattainable distance. And I didn't want to let that happen. For if we do a lot for farmers, for self-employed people, then it is also legitimate that we do something for few workers, and where these workers have shown us with signatures, how important this concern is to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] The same applies to you, Mrs Gredler: You can spread much more here at the speaker's desk, because you have more time to speak than a Member of the Government, you are more often speaking, so tell me what you want to tell me after all. In any event, I am very glad that this Convention is now in place, that there is a party to the Convention, that we are submitting the request which says nothing other than that this request should be decided at the December meeting even if it is until 30. In 1998, there was no overall contract. If there is this overall agreement, these rules do not need it. And now I am slowly again convinced that it will come to this overall agreement because a blockage does not make sense anymore. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5126	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5169	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reitsamer has asked me to make use of my speaking time. I don't want to be unfair, I'm getting a little shorter today, but I don't understand the world anymore. Cheers on the one hand They say that the ambulatorys are finally entering the field of commerce, that they will finally behave like ordinary merchants, namely, to profit. [[Abg. I don't know why. That's what they're doing today!]] So I don't think the profit-making facility is. I hope they are institutions for the economical use of public resources and not for profit. So now, for the first time, they want to enter the field of winning by making crowns there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] That's supposed to be it. But this is what cheers Mrs Reitsamer, and that surprises me. But I am more surprised, Mrs Reitsamer, that you are not aware of what Salsma, the chairman of the Public Service Union – free from suspicion of belonging to the Liberal Forum – has come to be completely free of this suspicion, absolutely free of suspicion: that perhaps we should talk about socially staggered self-retains in the fixed dentures. [[Abg. Koppler: No!]] [[Abg. The Sally Mother?]] And that's his reason. For this unwholesome discussion, in which two argue over an overall treaty, takes place about something for which one pays nothing anyway. This is very important: The social security funds pay nothing for the fixed denture. They don't pay their patients for it! They don't pay for it, but they want to have a contract with the doctors who do the services for which the social security institutions don't pay. And that's difficult. They have distorted this issue to the public, and now it turns out: We have experienced a revelation page here, which shows that the social security claim to cover all medically-indicated social security benefits has actually been maintained in the medical philosophy of the fifties. For any serious doctor will tell you that, of course, a fixed tooth replacement is usually the most reasonable medical solution to the problem of a person who can no longer bite properly. Only our social insurance companies believe that this can also produce a curly bit in the water glass. And I think that's a shame! This is a revelation. Now I admit, Mrs Reitsamer: This is easy to say from the opposition bank, without mentioning that it would be expensive. That's right, I'll let you know. We also opposed the 50 S health certificate fee, but not so much because of the 50 S as because of the form of collection. For pensioners, you have raised the health insurance contributions, because you have come to the point of not being able to collect the health certificate fee from the pensioners because they no longer have an employer. You have introduced the health certificate fee only because you promised in the elections not to raise the social security contributions. Because you had to raise them anyway, you chose the "Bypass" to introduce the health certificate fee. This is, in fact, a linear restraint for the people who are sick. The health certificate fee is a linear retention if you label it properly. Why Grab hold You don't want to put up with the Sallymutter proposal of a socially staggered self-retaining at the fixed tooth sets? Is it only from the best of the best? Then you would have been able to finance a firm tooth replacement through the social security fund for those people who could not afford the 5 000 S or the 6 000 S crowns. [[Abg. Silhavy: And they go up with the price!]] Then I'd have You claim to negotiate the price with the dentists if you pay something. Do you understand me? That's what upsets me so much. I am also of the opinion that there are sometimes excessive imagination prizes – I do not agree with you at all – but the social problem I have is not that a mediocre person cannot afford the 30 000 S crown, but that a mediocre person cannot afford the 5 000 S crown either. This is the social policy problem. He can't afford a crown at all. That is why, I would remind you of yesterday's Committee debate, my colleague, stupid and some others, after everything has calmed down, once again, to discuss the question of whether there are no areas in the range of medical services, where a socially staggered self-maintainment can solve the problem, that of course we cannot raise any health insurance contributions, or want to do so again in the cost of pay, and in addition to reducing net wages, which is inconvenient – in which we all agree – that it is not solidary to say to the people: If you want proper teeth, pay for yourself, it's only 5 200 S or 6 200 S. For someone who, for example, has 8,000 s of compensation allowance, is 60 or 67 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] That's okay, but I like these grace things less. I believe that it should be a claim, because otherwise the principle of insurance will be undermined. Now, I think, we have talked enough about the arresting dental substitutes, at least I have in the context of my contribution to the debate. I was just really concerned with opening up the sham discussion that someone says: But they can't demand any more! And it says one that can't be required at all, because it doesn't pay for it, the main association. That, I mean, is the discussion mistake. That's why it was unfortunate that you made a junkim here, that you attached the entire ASVG novelle to these stuck tooth sets, so to speak, a huge bridge. That is why I am glad that this junkim is broken, and I hope that the negotiations will result in something reasonable. To the ASVG-Novelle itself: It is a continuation novel of the work contract history. It has now become much better – I admit – but legal certainty has not been well served in the last 24 months, especially by the fact that there are now so many different fact sheets about what is going on, which are partly obsolete, so that no one knows at the end of the day. Until the GSVG, this has not yet been about what you are doing, because there are still people who identify themselves as traders and want to register there, if they do not have any confirmation from the district administration authority. The input that someone has filed for the trade there with the entry stamp on it is not sufficient for the GSVG, although he wants to make nothing other than to pay contributions, namely from the minimum contribution base. They're sending him away again. If he has the trade after one or two months, then this will naturally be retroactively recalculated to him. That's okay, but he wasn't insured. – So there is still a lot to improve. Much of what you do in the ASVG-Novelle was ultimately the subject of a urgent request from the Liberal Forum of February 1998. At that time, however, you still called it impossible. Now, in part, you do it yourself, although not really the way we would imagine it. One last comment: You will find on today's agenda a point which I cannot now mention to you, the Liberal Forum's request for wage-based service providers' contribution calculation. I'll appeal to you again: The question is that the Federal Government should be asked to provide the basis for calculating the effects of the conversion of service providers' contributions if they were calculated by the wage sum. So I ask the Socialist Group, but also the colleagues of the EIA, to agree, because it would be a good thing if we had these basis of calculation. Then you may know more precisely why you are against it, we know more precisely why we are for it, and the Social Democrats know more precisely why they do not know what they know. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5260	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5282	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a statement: The social security laws that we are adopting today are both content and practically identical to what was presented to us by the Council of Ministers several weeks ago as a government proposal. I consider this statement to be quite crucial, because nothing had to be changed in the Committee, as has been said in general. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So you could say a lot of noise for nothing. I agree with Mrs Sozialminister – and this is something different than Mrs Reitsamer said in her speech today – because I agree completely with you, Mrs Minister, if you notice today in a press release – I quote: "Consistency in the negotiations has made itself paid in the interest of the insured" - the patient thus - ". At the latest in January next year, there will be a significant price reduction in bridges and crowns." Mrs. Minister "hopes that the main association and the doctor's chamber now quickly agree on an overall contract." I am not just saying that I hope so, but I am convinced that this overall agreement will come about, just as we have been saying for weeks, ladies and gentlemen. Now it has failed only because some Members have not really trusted the fair intentions of the doctors. I would really like to stress here that both negotiators, not just one, the main association and the medical board, have endeavoured to reach an overall agreement. They have also made great progress in negotiations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Koppler: Result: Zero!]] Deputies! They have agreed on a indicative rate of 6 200 s, as we have always demanded, and much more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would, however, like to refer to the social security laws. It's about this one today. We therefore expect an overall agreement, which sets out the guidelines for permanent dental replacements at the beginning of the year in a uniform manner, which will bring substantial approval to the patients who will and must go to the dentist. That is why we are concerned, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Social Insurance Act-Novelle – the Member's head, you have admitted this too – is to be assessed positively. The extension of co-insurance to all children – ladies and gentlemen, from 1st century onwards. On August 27, 1998, all children, all pupils, all students, and up to the age of 27. Year of life co-insurance – is a very essential thing. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We should take this out so that people can experience it and now resolve their voluntary insurances they have received. I also call on the local health telephone to accept and pass it on. I really want to do public work in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a significant improvement for small employees. They get weekly money, they get sick money – at a modest level, but they are now insured with health care. We take the apprentices out of accident insurance in the first year of teaching, which means a significant reduction in the social security contributions for apprentices in the first year of education. And many others add: I would remind you of the accident insurance of farmers, which is being designed in modern fashion, which is adapted to today's requirements. I would really like to stress that Mr Donabauer has done an excellent job to enforce this new accident insurance for farmers. It was his initiative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, then, it is a question of deciding a social security law novelle, which introduces adjustments – that is right – which also brings improvements. If individual Members believe that we need to go a step further and grant subsidies to dental crowns, I would like to hold on, ladies and gentlemen: A modest grant for dental crowns also goes into the billions. In view of today's situation, it is simply not possible to decide on such grants without increases in contributions. It is not possible without increases in contributions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'd like to prove this to you. We rarely have to adopt social security laws that are as undisputed in content as these, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore like to ask that, as far as possible, all the parties to these social security laws which we have today and those which, in part, have been in force on 1 January 1989. It will enter into force on August, which will give its assent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5352	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5374	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feurstein referred to the fact that there are rarely any ASVG novels which are supported by as broad an agreement as these. Well, Mr Feurstein, on a number of points – and we will not agree everywhere – this may also be related to the fact that the final innovations of the ASVG and other social provisions were not specifically designed to give their approval to the opposition, because these were, with quite a few exceptions, deterioration, in some cases, very bad deterioration. They will not be able to expect us to agree. I already admit: In this ASVG-Novelle there are indeed some points to which you can agree if you press at least one eye. I'm starting with a point where I have to press the first eye, which is, of course, the dental matter until the end of the day – the occupational disease regulation. For three or four years – in the meantime a new legislative period – a request by the Greens in the Social Committee has never been discussed in terms of content. Now that there has been a joint motion for a resolution by all the parties calling on the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to review this, you have put in place a regulation on which you state that there are indeed major improvements. I admit that one point has actually succeeded – and I do not think it is so immodest if one knows the practice of this Austrian occupational disease scheme – in the case of polytoxic neuropathies in organic solvents. - That's a point. But if you say here that is a comprehensive change and an extension, then that is not true. For it is precisely the one proposal that we have made and which we will now bring back as a resolution of the Greens, that the diseases of the support device should be taken up and that they should be discussed, that you did not agree with. And what I think is even more unfortunate: They refer to an opinion from the University Professor Rüdiger of the Medical Clinic in Vienna in the explanatory statement. Perhaps President Vergestnitsch does not know him personally, but perhaps by calling the IG Metall from Germany, which Professor Rüdiger and some others have quoted as "experts for safety of all kinds". And it is no coincidence that this Professor Rüdiger is presented in a very prominent, namely the only opinion by the accident insurance institution and the Federal Ministry as a testimony to why there must be no major changes and extensions to the list of occupational diseases. Professor Rüdiger is one who does not want to see this at all, but who in principle says that the workers are guilty themselves, and it is best to test them with genomic analysis when taking up work. Then those who put up with the work will be allowed to take on work, and the others will have to look for another job. This is the "quality" of Professor Rüdiger, this "expert for safety of all kinds" you are prominently quoting here when it comes to simply not extending this catalogue of occupational diseases to the diseases of the support apparatus. It is also a sad example of social-democratic and trade union policy that is already being called upon by Professor Rüdiger when it comes to somehow trying to achieve something in this area. I have already told you several times that the accident insurance institution clearly dictates the tone here and that you are therefore in agreement with this type of policy of the accident insurance institution because the government is doing quite well with it. Because the accident insurance institution, which is very rigid in the field of occupational diseases – we should also talk about the recognition procedures, Mr Vergestnitsch, which does not take place... [[Abg. The prophylaxis...!]] Yes, the prophylaxis of the accident insurance institution is a particularly sad chapter! Please don't remind me of what hasn't happened in the last ten years. But it is not about prophylaxis, but about the politics of the Federal Government and the accident insurance institution. We have to talk about the fact that, obviously, both are acting in good faith when it comes to ensuring that the accident insurance institution, on the one hand, is required to keep access to occupational diseases as low as possible and, on the other hand, the Federal Government is allowed to serve every year and every other year from the budget allocations of the accident insurance institution, with amounts of several hundred million schillings. It has now also been carried out such a strange exchange with regard to the apprentices: The Federal Government is allowed to serve each time, and it likes – or at least the Minister of Finance – even if there is such a small "chat box" from which you can extract several hundred million schillings – always at the expense of prevention! I would therefore like to inform you of the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be pleased if it were only for a regime such as the German or the Swiss. Interestingly, such diseases are among the recognised occupational diseases in both Germany and Switzerland. It's only in Austria that they say: That's not possible, it's too difficult, because we don't know what's going on, well-knowing – at least I know, Mr Vergestnich – that the accident insurance institution obviously is only interested in one thing: How much would that cost? – This was the subject of your correspondence with the German main association of professional cooperatives, which was only about what this regulation costs in Germany, and what we can save ourselves if we do not make it. – That’s – unfortunately – your only interest in this question. Mrs Bundesminister, I am not saying anything about the accident hospitals now. Of course, these good benefits do, but there are other purposes that the accident insurance would have to be fulfilled – especially in the interest of health insurance companies, which I come to talk to later. The accident insurance companies shall: They are pushing quite certain diseases and their treatment to the health insurance companies, because there they have, so to speak, no meshes. [[Abg. Conspicuous:... the accident frequency!]] I am now talking about occupational diseases, Mr Vergestnich, I am not talking about accidents at all. Don't bring me to those points I haven't mentioned yet, otherwise I could speak for a long time. I now turn to this chapter and move on to the next point where we have to look at it, namely the claim for a week's allowance for free workers. Mr. Feurstein! That would be an improvement, but everyone in this House also knows that no woman with the estimated amount of money – no matter how much she has earned before; this was also addressed by Mrs Reitsamer – can get through during the protection of mothers. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: What she did not get before, until now!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is the first step!]] Yeah, that's right. This is an improvement in which we Greens turn an eye and say: After all, that's something! At the same time, however, everyone knows that an amount of 2 780 s in the time of maternity protection, during which one cannot work – and I suppose, among the free workers there are many who depend exclusively on this money, because there are also a number of single-parents in this group – will not be enough for this group of persons in particular. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I have discussed this with you, and you have not had a counter-argument!]] These women are therefore forced to claim supplementary social assistance during this period. And it may not be that a social security benefit for certain persons leads to a claim for social assistance. Now I also agree with you - both government parties - that this is an improvement, but it leads us back to the point where it would be essential to ask whether certain benefits of this social security system are still applicable accordingly to certain groups of persons who have added new jobs. That is what we have to discuss time and again in the debate on basic security, which is not a simple debate. This is a debate that must lead to social benefits being set up. – and of course – and we would again be d’accord if the trade unions were to try only a little more in this direction – not only to minimum collective wages, but also to minimum legal wages under certain conditions. Mr Vergestnich! I say to you one concerning ÖGB and the pride you have with regard to the collective contract policy of the Austrian trade unions: According to the Social Report 1996, approximately 250 000 persons in full-time work earn less than 12 000 S gross. If we were to change the regulation of Tony Blair for England to Austria and apply the minimum statutory wage proposed there to Austria – and we were always so proud that the situation is much better for us than in the UK – then 13 000 S of the minimum wage for Austria would come out, which was now clearly achieved in the UK. [[Abg. With the exception of England? We'll do that, too?]] 13 000 S legal minimum wage has been agreed. The exception concerns young people. [[Abg. Well, that's it!]] There are even greater problems, Mr Vergestnich, because, as you know, the apprentices deserve a lot less. In the UK, however, no apprentices are known, so that is also poorly comparable. However, there is still a minimum legal wage of 13 000 S. I turn to this point and point out, with a small call to the trade union address, that the policy of collective contract minimum wages would have to be questioned, namely the result that it has produced over the last ten years in relation to these and to those groups that have recently joined them. Whether they are small employees, whether they are part-time workers, whether they are other precarious forms of work – at least in recent years, the trade union collective contract policy has hardly addressed anything. You will probably only be able to agree with me this way because you know very well that it is actually so. I think the suggestion was clear that there would be a need for a number of things not only at the legal level, but also at the level of the social partners, which, of course, is also the other side of the social partners. As you can see from the example of Great Britain, we have no reason at all to hit the shoulder of certain minimum requirements relating to the income of employed workers. Of course: If there are these minimum requirements, we could also speak differently about these minimum claims in the weekly allowance for free workers and similar groups. Third point: This is only received in the ASVG-Novelle if we establish a general claim, Mrs Bundesminister, - we have already submitted a request to this effect to the Committee - concerning the information requirements of social security institutions. I have to read the following motion for a resolution before: [[Quoted print version removed]] The third point therefore concerns the information requirement of social security institutions. It is not sufficiently regulated in the previous ASVG provisions that there is indeed an obligation to provide information in this respect, which helps to transform these social security institutions into modern service companies and, in fact, to understand more customer-oriented than has been the case so far. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I already admit that something has happened in this area. However, if you look at the specific individual cases, Mrs. Federal Minister – and we know what we are talking about – there are still those people – usually the women, who have worse access to information, to rights and also to information about trade unions et cetera – who are therefore paying for them because, in the case of a late retirement pension, not all of their claims are communicated in good time to them or they are not informed of certain rights that would otherwise follow from these claims. We Greens therefore only demand one thing: The obligation to provide information, which, in the event that it is not guaranteed, will also lead to the possibility of retroactive application of the benefits if demonstrated. I have explained in the debate on social security benefits - because it was important to me - that we cannot, for this reason, agree with the request of the liberals, that is to say with regard to the withdrawal of the application principle, because we believe that this is a non-essential principle. If social security as a service company obviously does not work in such a way that it provides information, it must also be held accountable. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I come to the question of the dental crown rule. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! This is and remains a toothless arrangement, which still lacks the bite and which replaces the bite with the prosthesis. That's the problem. Yesterday, we were able to hear the rapporteur's contribution to the debate – he described it very clearly; it was discussed – that in the early 1950s and 1960s – Mr Kier has already pointed out – the policy of the cash registers was primarily aimed at replacing the healthy bite with the prosthesis. The goal of fulfilling dental care was to give the patient a full prosthesis. I already admit that the claim has changed in part, especially in the case of doctors, and of course this policy is no longer represented by dentists. As far as the cash registers are concerned – if I imagine that for every tooth gap filled by a prosthesis, grants are still paid at the level of several thousand schillings and then you come to the speaker's desk and say that you cannot do this in the fixed tooth replacement – nothing has obviously changed. The regulation you propose with regard to the fixed tooth replacement is therefore a hypocritical arrangement because there is still this inequality treatment. There is a preference for the prosthetics, which are still financially supported, which is massively supported, although everyone knows – I think, the social insurance companies also know – that the prosthesis against the living tooth, which is being crowned, is no good solution and should no longer be pursued by the cash registers as a policy. I come to another problem: The agreement you have reached is an agreement – it is not yet in place, but only in this initiative proposal – between the dentists and the social security institutions. And now I'm telling you who couldn't agree. This is an agreement at the expense of patients who cannot afford a crown of 6 000 s or 7 000 s, just as they have not been able to afford a crown of 8,000 s or 9 000 s. This is also an agreement at the expense of dental technicians, Mr Khol, who were also not involved in these negotiations, and who, I assume, are now, in particular, those who are disadvantaged in terms of cheap, stuck tooth replacement, because they have to deliver the cheapest tooth replacements, but actually have the main work in tooth replacement. And this is also an agreement at the expense of a group that has not yet been addressed, namely the dentists who, through collective contract policy – partly by those of the trade unions and, of course, also the medical board, Mrs. Gredler – belong to those professional groups that receive the lowest compensation in Austria. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] That is why this thoughtful agreement that you have reached is a bad one and we Greens are in principle also rejected because it is still an agreement at the expense of the patients and the other groups mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5584	Mr Oellinger has read three motions for resolutions. All three are sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5614	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to begin by saying that the Freedom Party is taking action to ensure that the permanent replacement of teeth for the Austrian patients will be cheaper in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, as has been said on this deal, I must say, between the government parties, that in months of negotiations one has no longer achieved that the patients will have to get into the bag very deeply in the future and that it will not be affordable for many to make a permanent tooth replacement is significant. The ÖVP has always objected to the fact that this tooth replacement in the state medical ambulatories is to be manufactured and offered at a dumping price. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today we have tabled a motion for a resolution which raises the whole issue, namely that the ambulatory systems should have the same conditions on the free market as the established freely practicing dentists without distortion of competition. This is an essential necessity, but it is not now given, and it will not even be given if until 1. There is no general agreement between the dentists and the main association in January 1999. How should an overall agreement come about if one of the negotiators has all the drums in hand? President Sallmutter can now swallow all ten fingers, for he knows very well that if he does not make a contract – and he will do everything he can to prevent him from doing this – automatically from 1. January 1999 and as long as a contract finally comes, the possibility of offering tooth replacement in its state ambulatorys will be given under anticompetitive conditions. [[Abg. Koppler: This is for the socially weak! Isn't that clear to you? You don't seem to know that!]] This is exactly the subject, Mr Koppler, which I wanted to cut. Finally, you wake up! You were in front of me on the list of speakers, but you were rejected. Maybe you'll come to the speaker's desk after me. Then you can best give your wisdom. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Koppler! That's exactly the concern of the liberals: The social weak is supposed to get a tariff of tooth crowns, which he can afford as well. They seem to be very far away from the workers, their interests and financial possibilities! Faith Do you really think that an employee with an income of between 10 and 15 000 S or a family income of 20 000 S can afford so easy 6 200 S? [[Abg. Koppler: You have no idea at all! If I have a house apotheque...!]] Mr Koppler! Look at what the clientele you should represent, but you have not been represented for a long time! 6 200 S are a lot of money, and we therefore also advocate that a socially coordinated fixed grant be made possible. Mr Koppler! You must have a stuck tooth replacement unless you still have healthy own teeth. I'm sure you didn't let him do it in one of your VOEST ambulances. They are marching for the most noble, presumptuous and expensive dentist in Linz and have turned the money bar to the hand, but those people you should represent can no longer afford to do so. [[Abg. Koppler: I'm just going to the ambulance!]] That is why we are in favour of the fixed grant, Mr Koppler, and this fixed grant should be socially advanced. For those who are socially weaker, it should be higher, for those who have better social conditions, it is degressive. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: And where do you take the amount for it? You can want everything!]] This would be a socially just solution, so that the socially weak in Austria would also be best served. Mr Feurstein says: no grant without an increase in contributions. – I just don't think you do! It must not be a grant of 80, 90 or even 100 percent. They owe us the calculation. You've announced, you're presenting this to us. I say the following to you: Until a few years ago, the health insurance fund paid 500 S and more in fixed grant. The Constitutional Court then found in a statement that this was too little. So at the time, they paid 500 s. With a total volume of 8 billion schilling for crowns, 500 s per crown is spent on an amount of about 800 million schilling, which the health insurance companies have saved on the back of the patients due to the removal of the so-called "bagatell grant" and in no other way refunded. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: And that's where you want 3 000 S grant?]] 800 million and 1.5 billion schilling now have the cash registers surplus. Part of the surplus that has already been forecast for 1998 could be used for this, or the health certificate fee, which is collected for the toothlight, and much more. With a social phase one cannot convert the 8 billion schilling into one in terms of the grant, but one would come to a grant of 3,000 to 4,000 s per crown in the event of a staggering for social weakness – and that would be a good solution. That would be all right, but not to introduce a distorting mechanism by promoting state medicine with ambulatories. Ambulatorys were closed in the GDR immediately after the fall of the Iron Curtain because one knew that this was the most expensive way at all to operate medicine. The state medicine has been abolished, and it has changed to private medicine. [[Abg. That's not comparable! You can't compare that!]] We in Austria are on the reverse path, Mr Koppler, and you are a pioneer in this regard. But this is certainly a wrong path that we will not go along with!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5736	Now, Mrs. Dr. Reported by Gredler on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5757	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on some of the points in this debate. I also think it is a laborious process, which has now been launched in Austria to establish a junk in negotiations, so that for some groups who have a bitter need to get help on our part – reliefs for young entrepreneurs or sick and weekly pay for minor employees – this aid is greatly delayed because there is a need to talk about tooth replacement. I would have liked this to be decoupled and that one discussion be held separately from the other. I do not stand in the way of saying that both areas have to be discussed. On the field of dental services in general. First of all, I would like to replicate the comment made by Mr Oillinger that the dental assistants would pay too little. I'm of the same opinion. I believe that one should move from a career to a teaching profession in order to ensure decent and modern vocational training, and, of course, one should conduct appropriate collective contractual negotiations in order to obtain a reward corresponding to the benefits. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Silhavy]] I'm not going to support this. But you must not forget the other side either. There are about 10,000 dentists who have been very unsure by this discussion. These helpers are women throughout, many of them are re-enters, very many part-time workers. It was not a good idea to insure her before the summer break. This brings me to the heart of this debate, namely the ominous crowns of teeth – also because I am one of those who pursue the profession of using dental crowns. The tooth crown at a price of 6 200 s is not just what one understands under this "cotch" of plastic, ceramic or metal. The crown needs pre-treatment and post-treatment, which, depending on how demanding it is, naturally requires different basis of calculation. That's why I now allow myself to come to the ambulatory. The ambulatories are to perform all the services they want, but under the same conditions as they find the dentists. They should be privatized and then work with all the risks and possibilities of a company, as well as all dentists. Then you could compare the achievements. But it is not a matter of covering things from a protected area, which we understand as a cure treatment, but which are apparently not understood by social insurances as a cure treatment, for otherwise they would grant them. I therefore allow myself to table an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are therefore making this request, as I mentioned earlier, because we are of the same opinion as the Freedom Party, that the ambulatorys should actually be removed from the legal health insurance scheme, and, although I am not in some respects the same opinion as the Freedom Party, we will also come closer to the proposal it has made. I would like to say to the dental crowns in principle: First of all, the removable tooth replacement cannot be deflated. There are also enough people here in the house who obviously do very well with it. The fixed tooth replacement will not be able to replace the removable tooth replacements completely. I'm not someone who definitely recommends a fixed tooth replacement in any situation, simply because it's not always medically indicated – except you have the possibility to bridge open spaces with implants. However, this possibility is not open to every patient and every patient, for medical reasons as well as for financial reasons. I would also like to oppose Mr Reitsamer's comment, which said that there must also be little worker to earn a fixed tooth replacement. I know from the ranks of Social Democrats former ministers who are very happy patients in ambulatories. We do not need to support them. The ministerial board will be sufficient to ensure that they can afford adequate tooth replacement wherever they can make it. I am sorry that you cannot join the idea of giving support only to those who really cannot afford to do so, to an extent that does not cover the whole amount of 6 000 s, but with a fair share. People who really have nothing available to pay for these benefits should be supported by health insurance, so that they can afford these tooth substitutes, but former Federal Ministers of Austria should not be granted this possibility of health insurance support. I hope that at some point we will find it possible to introduce a social phase. It is unbearable that it is believed that with 6 200 s everything is done. There's nothing done with it! It is a certain group of people satisfied with it. But again: Medical care and follow-up will definitely be payable. It will be to pay for the provisorium, it will be to discuss which metal is used under it – a special alloy for allergics costs more than a favourable alloy, which is a collection of different metals, but which is medically quite reasonable. I believe that we should discuss very many things individually, which are now being standardized. It does not have every car the same price, which probably also has its reasons, but at the car prices no one gets up and says that does not work. [[Abg. Rider: Teeth are not the same as cars!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you don't stand up and say that a Ferrari can't cost more than that much. These are services that are discussed in advance between patients and doctors. Health plans are being prepared, and there is a compromise between the patient and the doctor. If this compromise is entered, it is not necessary to grant a grant to a third person who is not even willing to do so. You have only provided that you grant grants, the right to participate fully in this debate. As long as you do not, I am speaking to you of this right – unfortunately God, I must say, because many patients would be happy to receive financial support. I also do not see why, if, on the one hand, the health insurance companies are now so to speak, they are trying to push the medical profession into a corner and assume that, in this discussion, only financial interests are in the foreground. Many of them would love to earn their money differently. Give out more for the prophylaxis, and I swear to you, the discussion about the finance of crowns will disappear pretty slowly! That's the point! I would like to treat teeth that need no filling. That's the best thing you can do for the patients. However, there are fees below 100 S. Less than 100 S for prophylactic measures in the mouth – that's nothing! 100 S for prophylactic measures, for which I need up to four hours in part, that can't be all right! [[Abg. Rider: There is no longer any prophylaxis, in the bad material of the post-war period!]] That is where the debate should begin. We should discuss what we want to finance. There will be a system like in the Scandinavian countries: up to 18 years everything will be paid, from 18 onwards nothing will be paid. If the prophylaxis is not honoured by you, then we will have to discuss how much responsibility – not only financial – must also be taken over by the patients. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I come to the conclusion. I hope that we will find a reasonable solution in the autumn in the interests of all patients, and I hope that there will be a compromise on both sides and that we will not have to deal with the High House with materials that actually concern only the settled area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5866	Mrs. Dr. Amendment tabled by Gredler is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Povysil has now been mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to come to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5890	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we are experiencing today in this debate is the typical and classic example of a political deal. My colleague Pumberger already did this. It is quite simply a classic example of how to prevent an effective policy in favour of a rapid political solution, so that the coalition does not drift apart. [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is a very "smooth" introduction you are making!]] It is the classic picture, like a numerically not really important, but from her reputation, important professional group is quickly given a "sugarl" so that the coalition partner ÖVP preserves its face and ideology – Mrs. Minister, that is an ideological question! – that is to say, to place medicine more and more in close-to-state facilities, can be implemented. The patient plays a subordinate role in this. But I can tell you what the patient really wants: If he is bedridden and mobile, he wants his family doctor to bring him the medications to bed, he also wants to get his tooth replacement in an ambulatory, because he wants to be among those 5 percent privileged who can afford the dental crown in the dental ambulatorium – and that's only 5 to 10 percent. You will not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, after the government's request to be decided today, social security schemes will still find any reason to continue to negotiate, may they, from 1. In January 1999, a fixed tooth replacement was introduced. Our amendment to the Committee would have had a social component. He would not only have paid for this 5 percent, but for the really socially weak. It would have meant that half of the indicative rate should be replaced by the cash desk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it has been rejected by you against the voices of all the opposition parties, including the Greens and the Liberals, precisely because not the patient, but the ideology is important, because equality between the abandoned and the ambulatory and equal competition is not desirable. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 4 billion schilling!]] Perhaps they would look worse under the same conditions of competition! But most importantly, ideology is preserved. In the Committee – which has already surprised me – an ÖVP member has answered this accusation of the political deal: Well, that's politics! – No, ladies and gentlemen, so is not politics in itself; so is the policy of the government parties, so is a policy of resignation and hypocrisy! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am the co-compatriot of the largest opposition party in this House because I do not want to support this kind of policy. And, ladies and gentlemen, if I should feel this resignation in politics once to myself, then I take my hat and go. And I can only recommend that to you in this case!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5959	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e5980	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 55. ASVG-Novelle would almost fail in the dental dispute, including many important reliefs for young entrepreneurs, improved services for farmers and a self-employed sick leave scheme – all the points that we can contribute freely. But the request made yesterday by the Coalition to the Committee to amend the General Social Security Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, which, in my opinion, is only a delaying tactic of this Coalition Government, which is simply moving the problem to 1. January 1999, and after that it appears again. You will have to come to a final solution once on the question of dental crown regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! I have no understanding that the doctor's chamber is making itself strong over the dental dispute for the dentists. I also have no understanding that the health insurance companies are defending their ability to make the permanent replacement of the tooth ambulatory and to grant grants for it. What I think is significant is that our request, which we also made yesterday, has been rejected by the coalition, because you want to set the guidelines differently because you do not want dental crowns to be on health certificate as a cash service, although this will burden the more socially weak. We liberals would have liked to have this request confirmed by the coalition, but unfortunately we have not succeeded in receiving your consent. But for other things to throw money out of the window, this federal government is easy to fall. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would just like to remind you of the meeting of the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs in Innsbruck, for which a large programme has been announced. But more was celebrated there, and more visits were made than was actually done. In my opinion, this is not the right thing to do. We liberals, on the other hand, take care of the concerns of the "small" workers, the more socially weak, and I recommend this Federal Government once to make nails with heads and not just to carry out political wadbits on the back of the insured. Take our motion for a resolution which we have tabled today seriously and agree with it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6021	It has now come up with a report by Mrs Hostasch, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6042	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in the debate on the social security laws and the question of the permanent replacement of teeth, the number of different legal provisions in the social security laws has gone down. I would like to thank those speakers who have referred to several of these points: starting with the weekly allowance for free workers, the extension of the list of occupational diseases, the extension of accident insurance for rescue organizations, and the re-regulation of rural accident insurance, which certainly entails a very modern, forward-looking approach, but also the establishment of a beginner's contribution basis for the first time of self-employment. I could add a lot of points to this list. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that on the question of "fixed tooth replacement" the solution that you have decided today could be found. It is ensured that – I am convinced of this – an overall agreement until 31. ==References== But I am not sure whether this Treaty, if you had not chosen this solution, would have come about with the quality that is crucial to the insured. In addition, your procedure will ensure that, if this contract is not expected, from 1 January 2018 onwards. The benefits can be provided in the Ambulatorys until such a contract is concluded. Thus, there are significant improvements for the insured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the further implementation of these novelties, we will always inform the insured persons in good time about the changes and thus improvements that are being made to them, and the employers will point out the clear reliefs that have been achieved in the administration of different provisions for them. I am very happy and happy that I can now be there if you decide on these great legislative projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6086	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. There is no further word message. I therefore conclude the debate. A conclusion of the report was not required. I would ask you to take the seats, because we now have a longer voting process in front of us. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1234 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1365 of the Supplements. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment and an additional proposal. Finally, there is a request from the honourable Member. The main thing is to take the vote separately. I shall therefore vote first of all on the amendments or supplementary proposals, or on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 50a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled another supplementary request for the insertion of a new paragraph 64a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted another supplementary request concerning the insertion of a new point 66a. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That's the minority. The additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment relating to paragraph 68. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall therefore vote on paragraph 68 as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. Point 68 was adopted unanimously in the version of the Government template. Members Dr Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning an amendment to paragraph 130 and the deletion of point 131 and the resulting amendment to the reference number. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who agrees? - That's the majority. This part of the draft law has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. Deputies Dr. Kier and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning point 192 § 575 para. 1 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This amendment did not receive the necessary approval. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades also have an amendment concerning point 192 § 575 para. 1 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall be voting on this part of the draft law as it stands, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report. Who agrees? - That's the majority. This part is adopted by a majority in the version of the Government template. Deputies Mag. The principal and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 9a in Section 575 in point 192. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to point 199. Those who agree to this amendment may give a sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. Whoever agrees here may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the government proposal is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the separate vote on paragraph 42, point 53, point 56, point 69, point 72, point 89, point 90, paragraph 575. 11 and Para. 14 in points 192 and 193 to 198 and 200 to 202 in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this version to give an appropriate sign. - That's what all ladies and gentlemen do. This part was adopted unanimously. I am still voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and the title and receipt in the version of the Government's proposal, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft law may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades concerning the fair reorganisation of the framework conditions for the provision of dental services. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the inclusion of disease in the occupational disease list. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the entitlement to a week's allowance for free women. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1237 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall vote in third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their agreement at third reading to this draft to give a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1367 of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1368 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report in 1369. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the obligation to provide information for social security institutions. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1370 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 1371. Who is to give a sign of consent? – This is done by the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. Next, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 1372. Who is to give a sign of consent? - That's the majority. This report shall be taken up by a majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report in 1373 of the supplements. Who is to give a sign of consent? – The notice takes place in a majority way. The Committee's proposal is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1236 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1374 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. The main reason for this is a request for a separate vote. I shall therefore vote, as is usual, on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall first vote on Section II, Section 148f, in the version of the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – Consent is unanimous. A unanimous vote. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and its title and receipt in 1236 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report in 1374 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this version, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's a majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall vote in third reading. Whoever gives his consent to this draft law in third reading may give a sign. – This happens by the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1375 of the supplements. Whoever is for the knowledge, may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The Committee's proposal is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1376 of the supplements. Who is to give a sign of consent? - That's the majority. The Committee's proposal has also been accepted by a majority of its members. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1377 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been largely taken note of. We shall now vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1235 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1378 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. The main point was also a request for a separate vote. I shall proceed in such a way that we shall first be voting on those parts which are affected by the demand for separate votes, and then we shall vote on the remaining parts not yet voted. I shall now vote on paragraphs 1 and 5 of the draft law as it stands. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. This part of the government proposal has been accepted by the majority. I now vote in favour of the remaining parts of the draft law and its title and receipt in 1235 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1378 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Who agrees with the draft law at third reading? – That too is the majority. The draft law is adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1238 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft was adopted by the majority at second reading. I now ask: Who agrees with this draft law at third reading? – There too, majority approval has been given in third reading. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. 17. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1230 of the Supplements): Law on criminal law 1998 (1359 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the report of the Federal Minister for Justice (III-74 of the Supplements) on the protection of our children on the basis of the resolution of the National Council of 19 December 1990 on the protection of children in the field of health and safety at work September 1996, E 20-NR/XX. GP (1360 of Supplements) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 329/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (1361 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion for a resolution 464/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning the package of measures for the comprehensive protection of children (1362 of the supplements) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 667/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code BGBl. 1997/I 12 is amended (1363 of the supplements) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 336/A by Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code 1974 (1364 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6627	We now come to points 17 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6656	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say once again that my group regrets that this important item on the agenda is only now being dealt with in a secondary way compared to the rest of the agenda. I am fully aware that the control of dental crowns is also important for the population. But I believe that if one wants to be a Parliament which claims to be represented by Members here who, in turn, claim to represent the interests of the population, then the issue of child injury and the intensification of criminal standards against child injury would have deserved a different position on the agenda! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, even if you make your calls: It is natural to question: Why? What is the reason why you voted against our request for an amendment to the agenda? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You have proved today how quickly you can pick up a item on the agenda if you just want to come up with a solution. Yes, what did you prevent you from agreeing to this item on the agenda at the beginning of this important debate? What did you do? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There can logically be only two reasons. One reason would be a mooding behavior according to the motto: "All that comes from the FPÖ is unreflected to vote." - But I don't think so. The second reason could be that, taking into account the discussion in the Committee on Justice, it is the coalition of the internal view that it has not initiated all those measures in Austria in order to actually send a visible signal against child injury. And that is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, what you have to say in the various statements, for example, that there will be a doubling of the criminal threats, – Mr Federal Minister, you will give me the right – if I look at the government's proposal, it is only on condition that it is correct. I agree, and this is inseparable from our agreement that the side-sleep-like actions are to be equated with sleep and that the previously unwarranted privilege – if I may say so – of the sleeping-like actions was a manco that was now eliminated. However, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be done because there is a wealth of serious acts of fornication against children, which are still only threatened with punishments that could almost be described as bagatal punishments. And it is not just that the threats of criminal offences against children are generally too small. There is still the possibility of converting prison sentences into fines. There is even the possibility of conditional criminality in certain, not too high, but serious offences. Now the extrajudicial settlement is to be announced – I believe a contradiction in itself, because, of course, as the term says, criminal law must refer to criminal acts, and criminal acts, a criminal criminal law, cannot be decriminalized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This was a utopia of Christian Broda, which certainly did not prove to be correct in practice. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The Codex Hamurabi! Krüger, as long as you call the concentration camps a prison camp, we don't need to talk about it!]] Mr Barmüller! I know, Mrs Schmidt explained from this place two years ago that this goal of Christian Broda is a very positive vision: the vision of the prisonless society. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I'm on it!]] You're on it today, that's what you're talking about. But in terms of content, it speaks against you. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the good points of the novelle; that the novelle in parts finds our approval, be mentioned here too. First of all, we liberals – I admit – have different opinions on the question of the beginning of the limitation period, because there are a number of foresights and contradictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] We were in some cases opposed – I am right – to you, but we have come to the conclusion, after careful consideration and even after a thorough discussion in our club, that the limitation periods, as provided for in the Government's proposal, are correct and that, above all, the inhibition until the achievement of maturity is fully correct. Please measure us by this declared will, which corresponds to the will of our group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second, which is quite positive, is the possibility of gentle acceptance of victims of moral attacks. That too is our undivided consent. What we cannot agree with, however, is the general spirit of the government template. Ladies and gentlemen! The general spirit of the government template continues to run into partial luggage of serious crimes against children. I can prove it to you, too. I have also expressed this view in committee. Imagine the case that today someone rapes a grandchild. The intention is not directed towards death from the outset, but it results from the action. Imagine that this perpetrator is privileged by the fact that this action – this incredible act that leads to the death of a child! – not with a penalty of 10 or 20 years or life-long, but only with a temporary penalty up to 15 years or 20 years. That's incredible! There children are killed by acts of violence, rape, and this is not threatened with a life-long punishment! Take, for example, the case of a woman who kills her husband, a plot, for example, because the man with his secretary went on vacation, and several days after his return, it comes to his killing. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] - If that's funny for you, it's your thing. For me, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious access. If you want to bagatize this, that's your thing. No one in the population understands that! On the one hand, such a type of crime, as I have just described it, is threatened with a life-long punishment, and on the other hand, someone who rapes a child, even rapes a baby, from which death results, where death was not included in the premise, a lower threat of punishment. Please explain this to the people! Go out and try to sell the government template to the population as an intensification measure against child abuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We invite you to agree to our amendment, which we will be introducing today in the course of the debate. This amendment is backed by the idea of a drastic streamlining of sanctions for moral offenders against children, namely that the threats of punishment are generally increased by up to 50 percent, that there can be no conditional dismissal for child abuses, and that there can be no other transformation measures, such as the resulting forbearance, in the case of child abuses. This is important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to the conclusion. The residual risk of the relapse rate for these types of offences is 80 percent. Morality perpetrators, child abusers, as the psychiatrist Rudas – the brother of the Managing Director of the SPÖ – has explained very clearly, up to 80 percent will fall back again. That means, even if the archaic might sound – I have said that several times –: Our children are entitled to protection from these types! These child scarves belong to locked away, and if it has to be, for life!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6769	Mr. Dr. Krüger! I understood your remarks in such a way that you also explained the key points of your amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This application will only be submitted! That was a premise!]] – So that was not the formal introduction yet. We have the distribution because this is a relatively large request. So someone else will expressly refer to it? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you very much, Mr President.]] - Please. The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6812	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! Although this novelle coincides with a really horrific case of child abuse in Holland, this novelle is not a matter of law but is very long prepared. For two years, the expert group dealing with the new sex criminal law has been meeting, and this group of experts has presented a proposal that thank God can still be adopted here in Parliament today. The result: The age of protection remains unchanged in sexual abuse with unmistakables at 14 years. In the novelle, equality of sleeping-like actions – anal traffic, oral traffic and penetration with items – is provided for by the over-punishment of over-punishment so far. These actions are now equivalent to the insomnia and are therefore much more severely punished. There is a punishment of up to 20 years in the event of death, up to 15 years, when there is a serious injury of the body, and up to ten years if no injury is associated with it. – This will lead to serious criminal intensifications. For the youthful love – and I emphasize here: only the voluntary and non-violent sexual act among young people – we have created special provisions. I would like to explain this because it always leads to confusion. These specific provisions read as follows: For the petting, the current legal situation remains. The protection age is 12 years, but the partner must not be older than 16 years. A new, absolute minimum age of 13 years is required for young people to fall asleep if the partner is not older than 16 years. For sleeping-like actions among young people – and here the penetration with objects does not belong to it – we have raised the protection age of 12 years – the current legal situation – to 13 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: Isn't that medieval in your own opinion, Mrs. Colleague?]] I emphasize that violence-like acts, namely penetration with objects, are forbidden in which youthful love. On this point, Mrs Perner gave us expert advice and scientific advice, and she has done impressively to me that the healthy sexual development of young people and the first sexual contact do not belong classically to such experiments. Those who experiment with objects in this period, i.e. at an age of less than 14 years, are already a repeater. That is to say, only those young people who have been abused themselves and want to continue experimenting with this experienced abuse. We want to break through these spirals – that you pass on what you have experienced yourself again – and that is why we forbid that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] We have not been able to follow up on the Committee's request for freedom, because it does not take account of this sensitive point. He allows the sexual experiments up to the age of 12 years, but forbids the actual insomnia, which, of course, is what one makes as a sexual experience in youth. And we feel that's a perversion. We have not been able to agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I welcome the extension of the limitation periods and the fact that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has, as it were, been able to learn and realize that their claims were actually a victim's favour and that they are now following our ideas. I also welcome the hearty experience. It is important that this is clearly extended, not only for children but also for raped women. It is good that they no longer have to face their tormenter in court. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] Unfortunately, I no longer have time to carry out the further provisions of this amendment. However, I would like to stress that in addition to sexual criminal law, promotion abuse is also normized. It will no longer be a cavalier’s crime if subsidies are used abusively. I also welcome the fact that, in line with our applicable corruption law on the acceptance of gifts, bribery and forbidden intervention, we are extending the rules on corruption to EU officials from Austria and are implementing an OECD Convention. It was important that we reached an agreement in the final part of this early summer, these plenary sessions, only to protect our children. For we also want from the ÖVP no mildness for children's shames!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6902	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen! You still have a speech time of 18 minutes. That's your club's speaking time. Should I set that? [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Yes, please, but it is not my intention to exploit it!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e6932	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Criminal Change Act, which we have to discuss today, contains a number of provisions that are simply understood. That is the regret of the judicial policy of recent years, that we are not actually taking any steps that are soft-setting, which are characteristic of a signal to society, which at least contains a vision for further development. I have been told today that I often quote Broda in this context; I like to do it again. Of course, the prisonless society is a very desirable vision. If Mr. Krüger doesn't know what that means, that's his coffee. But no matter what. The last major reforms really took place at Broda's time. Since then we have had some novels, but something that deserves the name "reform" we miss. Likewise today – the Criminal Change Act is a law of enforcement. That's unfortunate. We are making changes that are necessary due to social developments, as well as changes that are necessary due to the conditions for Austria, such as the threat of neutrality. I think that, by the way, and not just now, because of a given occasion, but for years now, it has been a crime that has actually lost nothing in criminal law. For me, the risk of neutrality is something that requires political consequence, but not criminal law. You, Dr. Khol, are now happy to say this because you also want to question neutrality in this context. I have never meant this in connection with the questioning of neutrality, but from my understanding of what criminal law is for. In any case, I do not believe that there is a risk of neutrality! A change has now been made because, of course, measures must also be taken without criminality if they are taken on the basis of a decision of the OSCE or of the EU Council. So there was a need to regulate that, and it has been regulated. Through our EU membership, we are also forced to bring about a change in the legal situation in the support measures and to penalise misuse of funding. I do not hide that I think absolutely nothing of it. I believe that criminal law is basically not there. And what is particularly disturbing to me is that even prison sentences must be provided for and we do not find the result with fines. That's unpleasant for me. I admit that in this case we have nothing else left but I note that I do not think it right. At all events, I believe that criminal law should not be the Ultima ratio, but the Ultima ratio. For example, in the years 1994, 1995 and 1996, we have had discussions about what would be "disrupted" from criminal law – under quotations –, for example, the negligent Krida – I say this also in connection with promotion abuse – which has not lost anything in criminal law at all. But there are again groups of interests, even though the Ministry of Justice has already thought in this direction. In one word: This coalition – and not just the coalition, it has the FPÖ on its right side – believes that criminal law must discipline society. I don't think so. I believe that criminal law has lost nothing at all, especially in the private sector. When I think back, how many discussions it took to eliminate adultery from criminal law! Now we have him outside at least. What is still contained in criminal law is the marital deception, the need to marry. What did the judge lose? What is done with one having to go to the "hooks"? It is enough to have provisions when a marriage is to be annulled. It is enough if you already want to maintain the grounds for divorce that certain acts can be defined, which can then be introduced as grounds for divorce. In my view, the judge has lost nothing at all, and we will therefore also make relevant applications in further proceedings for a renewal of justice policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is not surprising, however, that there is no willingness of the coalition parties to do something about this. For if, in particular, a political group believes that it can even carry out the education of children and young people with the judge, it must not be surprised that the other regulations look like that. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Fekter is no longer in the hall. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (which is in the field of SPÖ series) I'm here!]] Oh, here you are. On the left I wouldn't have suspected you. – I only need to remember your argumentation when it came to taking into account a reality – even if only understandablely – which is that the sexual development of young people today is further advanced, that even through the entire social environment there is obviously a much earlier need to have sexual contacts, and above all this will be lived out. Now you can say you don't like that. I do not want to say that I consider this to be desirable; that is true already. The question is: How do we deal with this? Are we going to deal with these children or young people before the judges, or are we saying that there must be another possibility, whether it be at home – you are always talking about the family – whether it be in school, or elsewhere, to become educationally effective in order to support the development of young people in a different direction? And now I don't want to be so polemic to say you want to lock them all in the same way, because hopefully there won't be any such crazy judges who will lock these young people up for it. But have you ever considered what it means to be responsible for a judge? Faith Do you really think it is a positive experience in the development of a young person when, after having sexual contact with an almost equal age in front of a judge, one has to answer? Whatever this one then imposes on punishment! Is that your understanding? – Your children are sorry if I can say that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I don't think a sexual education by judges is right. If the coalition has now agreed to reduce the age limit from at least 14 to 13 years and to determine the age difference differently, this is a provision with which we can live. I do not think it is a realistic provision – 12 years as an age limit would be closer to reality – but that is no longer surprising in this coalition. But what goes much deeper is the following – and there argue Not only are you past reality, but you also argue about human rights; in this respect you are at the same level as the children –: They seem to have no idea what it means to allow children to answer before a judge. They seem to have no idea of what it means to burden young people who are sexually otherwise oriented than the majority, that is, homosexual, lesbian or gay, even by the criminal law. I don't know if They have ever thought seriously about what this means for the development of a human being, what that means for his being right in society. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Have you thought about Goisern?]] I think it is an incredible infammy to put Goisern, that is, abuse of children, in a connection with homosexual communities and love relations. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is the infame of discussion that leads to the given situation of homosexual people in our society. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Abuse among homosexuals is as punishable as under heterosexuals. Abuse is one topic, homosexuality the other. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Between 14 and 18 it would be punishable!]] And your constant blending of these two issues leads to those people who, as a minority, have to cope with their situation anyway, also being despised by the criminal law. I think it is a contempt for human beings when you approach the debate in this form! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] When people 14 years of age are punished when people 14 years of age are vulnerable when people... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Have you ever thought into the families? Have you ever thought what parents feel for their children? I have three daughters! I want to keep my daughters from any abuse, and my sons too!]] I would like you to succeed. If you believe that you can do this through the judge, then this is a wrong way. At least that's my argument. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't have children! You don't know what you're talking about!]] Dr. Khol! If you believe that you can dispute the discussion with me that you accuse me of having no children, then you disqualify yourself. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just because you're visiting us!]] It's infamed to be equal to homosexuality and abuse, and you do it in your discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're talking about the color like the blind!]] I think that's better with you, Dr. Khol. If a 14-year-old or a 14-year-old may even raise private funds, decide on religion, but not on sexual orientation, then this is an end in this society. And that is why I appeal to you to deal with the situation of these people once to imagine the situation in which you drive them in. They are always talking about liberals dealing with peripheral issues. We never felt that as a margin theme. But what you do... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't have a heart for parents who fear their children!]] Shall I tell you something? – This is a level where normally liberals hold the discussion, which says that the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Gehrer support violence against children. That's the same level, that's the same level! I wouldn't have trusted you, Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Smolle: Khol is not inside the "Constitutional Arch"!]] [[Call to the liberals: we do not want to be compared with Members of the Khol!]] My request is to really deal with this and not stick to an ideology with which you cannot change society, even if you wanted it. I can't! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we can protect children!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We can protect the children!]] Mrs Fekter! Do you think it is a protection for people if they do not trust to live by their orientation? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: When he's grown up, he can do what he wants!]] Is this your idea of protecting people that you want to make them a bad conscience because of their orientation and their influence? Is that what you mean by protection? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] I know that we also have different views about this. But I always try to question myself. Try it, too! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I am glad that at least a section that was included in the Liberals' request, namely § 72 StGB, has now been incorporated into this criminal law amendment law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This has been a crash of the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (To Abg. Dr. Graf) That's about adults!]] The Liberals' request, for example, refers to the right of censure in which the vulnerable core is a relationship of trust from a community of life, because trust does not depend on whether it is a heterosexual or a homosexual community. I am glad to have achieved at least one step, and I hope that this one step may also lead to a rethinking if you understand that it is a matter of trust, so it is not about who has this trust relationship with each other, but that there is at all. I am glad that we will adopt § 72 in an amended form today. I would now like to make a few comments on abuse. This is a completely different subject from all that I have been talking about. That is why I draw a thick line of separation between them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As long as the age of protection is 18 years, all of it is abuse!]] As far as abuse is concerned, I do not think we have to confirm to each other that, hopefully, all Members of Parliament want to do whatever is possible to protect children, not just children, but especially children, from abuse. But I warn you: It is a completely wrong way of thinking to believe that the hardness of punishment automatically comes with the quality of the protection of society. These are usually two completely different things. They always pretend here to be the hardness of punishment, the level of punishment automatically also a higher protection for society. This is proved to be inaccurate. I would like to put that at the forefront of my remarks. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] It's true. What you might think is the security need, and that's something completely different. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: General Prevention and Special Prevention!]] – Mr. Dr. Khol! You know very well that, especially in the case of sexual offences, the general and also the special prevention does not matter! That's a reality. The fact is that all of us are now intensifying the facts of the crime and hence the penalties for these crimes. I think that's right. An old demand from us was to extend the limitation periods – fortunately this happens; against the original will of the FPÖ – and it was an old demand of the Liberals to provide a gentle hearing. I am glad that this will now be decided. But I give the following to consider what we really need to think about: What do we do with those perpetrators who will be released? What do we do with them after we have realized – and that is why it is related – that the general and special prevention in this area counts almost nothing, Dr. Khol? Because if that were the case, we wouldn't have that setback rate that you complain about. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's about primer!]] Can you explain to me your logic, on the one hand, how high the relapse rate is of people who have already been condemned, who have already felt the punishment... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you for a forced therapy?]] – Of course not! Because this is so because we are now finding that, unfortunately, the decline rate of God is really high – of course, not as high as Mr Krüger says, the number he has mentioned is a complete dispassion; but I admit that there are no secure figures – we must seriously and objectively think about how we deal with this new knowledge. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Lifelong leadership!]] But in this respect I also say: Criminal law must be the last solution we find here. We should consider how, for example, the accommodation law can be designed in such a way as to apply it in this area. If you're talking about a reporting obligation, I'm really wondering: How far do you want to go? Are you still stigmatizing these people? [[Abg. Young: Incredible! Take care not of the perpetrators, but of the victims!]] What do you have of a reporting obligation if you cannot offer therapy at the same time? What do you have of it if someone has to report somewhere? Then we know he lives there, but nothing happens to him. That is, we have to think about how we can talk to these people in such a way that we can also bring them to a different path. Only then would it make sense for them to report. Otherwise, it is nothing more than stigmatizing, and this prevents the integration that is necessary for these people. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about protecting the victims and not the perpetrator!]] Even if you accept the highest percentage of the relapse rate, you need to know that at least one percentage of the proportion is left behind, consisting of only first-hand spouses. To bring this into such a social situation would increase the relapse rate. Therefore: Let's talk about it, but actually! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7342	Next speaker is Member Dr. Jarolim. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7363	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question has already been discussed today, and it is, as I believe, relatively undisputed in this House that the package of measures which we are going to implement here today with the Law on Criminal Law amending the law is a significant improvement; a significant improvement, which is not alone, but which has already preceded a number of measures. I am thinking, for example, of the criminal aggressment of sex tourism. We are one of the few pioneer countries in Europe that are facing sexual exploitation in holiday countries. This issue, I believe, is relatively undisputed, apart from the speeches of the liberals. They have today clearly disqualified themselves and have shown that they are not concerned with an objective discussion, but, Mr Stadler, with an almost gross abuse of incidents for their party policy purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! I really think this is horrendous, I want to say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I am glad that I have a different attitude than you, Mr Jarolim! She'll let me sleep.]] Mr Stadler! What makes me the happiest is knowing that I differ significantly from you. I would like to tell you this on this occasion. The joy lies on my side! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter! I would also like to draw attention to the provision of § 209, which we have been discussing for a long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr Graf, I do not know whether you understand it or not, but I believe that the other subject complexes have really been discussed. Of course, it is important to discuss § 209 really on the subject, and I can recall the following: A few years ago, an event was held within the Committee on Justice, to which experts were invited, who should deal with this theory of emphatically, on which it is imposed, which is ultimately illegal to human rights, as has already been established several times in the pan-European context. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to discuss this subject-matter and to try to really approach this point, which I think is unbearable – my group will react accordingly today –. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] This embossing theory, which I believe was the only real point of argument in the past, has clearly been contradicted. There are experts, such as Professor Friedrich, to whom one cannot imagine that he is a leftist, but who is a civil value, as you argue here, quite connected person, who says: The theory of embossing does not correspond to the facts. Therefore, the whole subject matter of argumentation is lost. What remains is the emotional one, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The protection argument does not fall away!]] No, Mrs. Colleague! The argument of protection goes exactly in this direction! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, it's not true!]] The argument of protection goes in the direction that young people are influenced by such contacts that they are more or less exposed to violence – which is not the case. And I would also like to say once again – because this has also been mentioned several times here today –: Where violence is applied, there are provisions that prevent this violence. So we have neither in § 206 nor in § 207 violence – that is voluntary, please! – and we have no violence at § 209. Nor do we have any use of an authority relationship, as we have had in one case, which Mr Stadler has repeatedly defended in the context of the discussion here in an unexplained way. That at that time, when the whole country knew what was going on, he made and said: Leave the hands of this poor old man! to say exactly the opposite from this pult today, ladies and gentlemen, is significant for your clubman – in particular, I say now, or whatever – but not, please, for this whole discussion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore believe that this debate should not be over, but it should continue. I deeply regret, on behalf of my group, that an agreement in the coalition was not possible, but you will understand that it is certainly not possible for us to change our way of thinking about the last vote. I really appeal to you, however, in the context of a further discussion on the subject, as we are accustomed to lead them to reconsider your position. We have taken a small step with § 72 StGB, I would say, in the right direction, and it is now important to continue to discuss § 209 in the autumn of this year so that this spot finally gets away. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7457	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Stoisits. 12 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7478	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Already in the morning in the debate on the objection, and several times now with my previous speakers, especially the speaker of the FPÖ, it has always been a question of demonstrating here that increased sanctions have something to do with the fact that the protection of victims would be beneficial to the victims. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Sure!]] It is really not clear to me what it should be for a victim – now in the real sense – because when it comes to protecting my very dear ladies and gentlemen, potential victims from child abuse, then criminal law is a means in both its special and general preventive aspect. [[Abg. Young: The potential victim!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: When he's sitting, he can't rape anyone!]] I am of course aware that the Green Group's colleagues are committed to this, and that is why we stand to change the criminal provisions of Sections 206 and 207 today. Whether this is in detail – and I do not want to repeat what Mrs Dr Schmidt has said again now – is so completely in line with the views of our group or also your group, I now leave it open. However, I admit - due to the limited time only for the clients among you - that the proposal submitted by the Federal Government, namely the government template by Mr Michalek, who went to the Committee on Justice, would have been more in line with our ideas. But because there is no longer any subject in which the small war or the struggle in the coalition plays a major role, in the last few days and weeks, we have a deplorable spectacle in the Parliament's self-representation – in this case we are affected, without even having anything to do with it; with "we" I mean the opposition now – an unworthy spectacle to parliamentarianism. I do not have to stress this once again and I do not have to repeat once again that it is a concern to all of us here to put Mrs Fekter's child abuse under severe punishment. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we've improved it quality, Mrs. Colleague, haven't we?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The question is treacherous!]] This is also reflected in the contributions made by the individual political groups in the discussions on the major reform of sexual criminal law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again: The aspect of victim protection is one aspect. But if one thought – and these are my only words to Mr. Dr. Krüger – this argument that comes to an end could only mean that most of the male but also the female population of this country would be locked away, because these types of offence are relatively common. [[Abg. Madl: A large part?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a mental attitude!]] And I am also opposed to the fact that numbers are constantly being played here, so to speak, and put up with them. The decline rate is such a serious problem, especially in the case of sexual offences, that, especially when referring to the relapse rate in the argumentation, one should be particularly precise and careful. Today, figures have been mentioned regarding the relapse rate, which is between 20 and 30, even at 80 percent. I wonder, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: What is the picture of the population of us when we are operating so unscrupulously here? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Because it is important, in view of the concern, partly also fear, but at least concern that parents have to give genuinely pure wine and to operate with the right numbers. Because – and now I come back to the victims –: The victims are indeed – and that is what I do not miss in detail about these measures, but what is missing in this large package – which is not included in them. I said this yesterday in the Committee on Justice and I would like to repeat it here: Almost exactly four years ago, we were sitting here together – it was not at half past eight in the evening, it was between 5 a.m. and 9 a.m. in the morning – and discussed the criminal provisions for the so-called - I use the word "so-called" - children's pornography and it significantly aggravated. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in the last four years, I have not been able to see that the issue of child pornography has lost only in the least importance in the public, let alone in the frequency of the offences, just because there are more severe penalties. I regret that infinity, because that is – and I do not want to repeat what the previous speakers have said – the most cruel and far-reaching offence that exists in connection with criminal law and with the types of offences. And that is why it is so serious to take, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I do not first and foremost condemn what the FPÖ does, that is to repeat how far one goes, whether one goes to "life-long", which follows the "life-long", whether one emphasizes it seven times, and whether one gets five times "life-long". This shows nothing but that it is never serious to see victims at the heart of these interests. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Because the victims need help, and they don't get this help. The aid does not get the concrete victim through life-long detention, but the victims need very different measures, which are, of course, also included in the Criminal Change Act in certain respects. I would like to stress: We give our consent when it comes to hearing and when it comes to what is possible in the process. But, Mr Federal Minister, you know, beyond that, so much use would be necessary. This also concerns the monetary facilities of the institutions dealing with victim protection, and we are not world champions, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely not here. And that's very unfortunate. With the same impetus, with which we now all, including my person, agree with the more severe punishments, I also expect those who can do so – and that is truly not the opposition – to do so. This is true when it comes to the support of child and youth prosecutors when it comes to supporting the social workers in the youth offices. This is a command of the hour, for otherwise we sit back in four years and feel that nothing has happened and nothing has changed. Ladies and gentlemen! I now turn to the Green Group amendment concerning § 209. Indeed, the object of protection in sexual criminal law is not the public morality, as a large part of the house tries to present us or the public. The object of protection is the sexual integrity and the sexual right of self-determination of people. This, ladies and gentlemen, should be like a red thread through the entire sex law. But here – and in so far as the debate already fits – this red thread rips. That is exactly what I miss in § 209 and in the pursuits that go to discriminate against people, whether they maintain moral ideas and morals, people because of their sexual orientation. I am tired of finding out who has not already found that discrimination is, and how often Austria has been condemned, and has been called upon to take steps in this regard at last, and I condemn, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, your approach. I condemn it in the truest sense of the word, because I do not understand that you are not in your word today. They have not only given to those concerned, but also, so to speak, in the sense of the principle of non-discrimination and the rule of law, this § 209, as far as it stands in your possibilities, actively – active! – remove. Help with non-participation or other juggling or due to your coalition loyalty Don't break this command. I'm condemning that! You know that I appreciate the personal opinion of each of you, but I still condemn this procedure. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] That is why our amendment, which I would like to make to the reading, is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the only solution, ladies and gentlemen. Love must not be prosecuted criminally, and that is what it is about in § 209. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] It's about a minimum age to be able to live love without punishment. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: 15 years old with 14 years old!]] This is the content of this section. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am pleased – and it is also important to note – that, in the context of § 72, which was mentioned by Dr Schmidt, the concept of family, a signal which, in my opinion, goes far beyond the salary that this section now has in the criminal context, is a signal of non-discrimination and equality. That is also important to be seen, and all those who have been able to get through with it, that is, the ÖVP, is due to my respect. It is a step or actually not a real step, but just a step. Nevertheless, it proves to me that the path taken is correct. But if it continues at this pace, then Mrs. Dr. Schmidt and I will retire here in the House, and we will still not have achieved what we have put in our requests, which we have already tabled before two legislative periods. Therefore, please: Speed up the pace! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more word on the SRAG-Novelle as a whole. It also contains other points which have not yet been mentioned, such as promotion abuse. For decades, since I have been living, there have been subsidies, there are promotions in this country, and if someone abuses them, then he is punished if a crime is fulfilled, and if someone cheats, he is a fraud and is punished as such. Now, suddenly, subsidisers and subsidisers are being criminalised, and by creating a new crime situation, the risk of criminal proceedings for a practice that has perhaps been common in recent years and has brought with it the other solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! We reject this kind of extension of criminal offences, but we admit that what is regulatory or what has provided reason to establish such regulations must be taken seriously, but not, please, by means of criminal law. On the other hand, this takes forms that we cannot join. Now I would like to make a reading of my amendment on this point. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On other points of this debate, you are doing quite a different thing, namely, the opposite: It's going to be decriminalized. As regards decriminalisation, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic will still comment on this, because today not only is more severe punishment of child abuse on the agenda, today not only the abolition of discrimination of homosexual-loving people on the agenda, but also the disposal of neutrality on the path of the innovation of criminal law. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is also a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7721	The two of the honourable Member Mag. The amendments tabled by Stoisits are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Michalek, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7746	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With the inclusion of sleeping-like acts in the severe criminal offence of sexual abuse, as has already been done in the rape and sexual necessity of criminal law in 1989, the legislator takes a clear step away from the mere disregard of violations of morality to a contemporary sacrifice-related value; in the present case, it is also with aggravation effect. The beginning of the limitation period for acts not yet limited in time of entry into force will only take due account of the full-year status of the victim, both of the special situation of children and young people who have been sexually abused in the family environment and of the long-term consequences of such crimes. On the other hand, it had to be borne in mind that the situation in criminal proceedings after many years can also be very difficult in individual cases. In the interests of the victims of sexual offences, the procedural provisions of the draft seek, in particular, the number of their court hearings, if possible, to a single contradictory and for children up to the age of 14. Limitation of consent to life-years by means of a gentle procedure. The construction and technical facilities for the video hearings to be carried out in this context have now been established at all criminal courts. Today's bill accelerates the implementation of an important part of the results of the interdisciplinary working group I have used to reform sexual criminal law. Further adaptations to the basic principles of the 1989 partial reform are still pending. The working group will continue its reflections and intend to make its final proposals by the end of the year. However, a rapid step towards extending the protection of victims and the assistance of victims is to be implemented in autumn. In the light of the outcome of the negotiations of the judicial unit with the social resort, the judicial body intends to introduce a novel to the crime victim law, which aims to include the costs of psychotherapy of victims of sexual abuse in the performance catalogue of this law. As regards the treatment and monitoring of vulnerable sexual perpetrators, a number of measures have been launched in the area of criminal and measures to better identify the cases in need of treatment, to review the treatment concepts and, last but not least, to promote the training of medical experts and to improve after-care, while in the future it will also be a more effective cooperation and interaction between the psychiatric supply and civil and criminal control systems, not least in order to ensure the financing of sometimes expensive therapies for certain social marginal groups – overall measures that we need to further in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7797	Deputies! We keep the pro-contra regime. Mrs. Dr. Mertel is coming in front of you. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7818	Mr President. Minister! High house! As the SPÖ's family spokesperson, I would like to comment on those provisions relating to better protection of children. The fact is that the provisions on social criminal law have been drawn up extremely serious and intensively in a working group set up in the Ministry of Justice. In this context, I also think it is quite legitimate and correct that, despite a planned overall reform of the right of sexual punishment for the protection of children, certain important points should be preferred and decided today. However, I would also like to expressly say to my group that the fight against all forms of child abuse and violence against children is an essential part of our policy. The matter is so important and serious that, unlike the FPÖ, we do not want to make a political change. It is also important for me to note that criminal law is a level within the framework of the objective of achieving the best possible protection of children, but of course there are other levels where intensive work is necessary. We all know that criminal law alone is not enough. With regard to the allegation that has also been made in the Committee on Justice: Nothing has happened, nothing happens!, I would remind you that the Federal Government has drawn up a catalogue of measures against violence and sexual abuse of children about a year ago, i.e. – and this seems important to me – the cooperation of all the authorities and non-governmental bodies concerned, a system catalogue showing all signs of child abuse, sexual abuse and neglect. I also recall that a resolution was adopted by SPÖ and ÖVP in February of this year, containing items outside of criminal law, such as the universal establishment of emergency numbers for children. Three important points in the context of criminal law, i.e. criminal demands from this motion for a resolution, are being decided today, and I welcome them. The first point is the extension of the limitation periods, with the ten-year limitation periods beginning to run with the entry of maturity, whereas – and again the contradiction of the FPÖ between thinking and acting – Mr. Ofner was in favour of extending the limitation periods only to two years after the time limit was entered. I expressly welcome the more severe punishment of the sexual abuse of unmistakable persons in the future, and I regret that this point of reform has so far been too limited in public. I would also like to make it clear once again that it was never planned to reduce the age of protection of 14 years, but it was only a matter of examining in the debate whether, in voluntary contacts between young people, criminal law is really the right instrument for doing so. The third point that is worth mentioning is the extension of the gentle hearing of minor victims in court. I am convinced that the new provisions are an essential contribution to improving the protection of children, especially because they are in line with previous reform measures. It is also my concern to note here that we have not only discovered today or a month ago that child protection is an extremely important objective. Therefore, I recall the amendment of provisions and refer in this context to § 64 StGB, which can combat child sex tourism, I recall the marked intensification of § 207a StGB, which incriminates pornographic representations, and § 1328 ABGB, damages for intellectual damage in the event of sexual abuse. What I regret, and I would also like to stress, is that we have still not succeeded in abolishing § 209 StBG, concerning the age of protection for homosexual relations with men. I therefore regret that this provision violates human rights and that no similar provision can be found in Europe. But I hope that before the Maastricht Treaty enters into force, we will be so far - we, but of course also our coalition partner - that we can find a regulation. I therefore think it is very gratifying in the comparison that with the concept of family members in § 72 StBG we were able to send a clear signal that the same gender-oriented way of life should not be discriminated against. To sum up, I would like to stress – and above all, in view of the media reports in recent days – that, in the interests of the best possible protection of children and the best possible provisions in criminal law, we can never reach an end, but we always have to make an effort to make things even better. However, I also believe that today's reform, even if it is sometimes qualified as a small reform, has once again been a great step forward, and that we have been able to make significant progress in the interests of the children and young people of our country to be protected.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7888	Mr. Dr. Graf, you are now speaking. Do you want a time limit? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 7 minutes!]] Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7917	Mr President. High house! I would like to deal briefly with Mrs Stoisits, simply because the language is treacherous. Mrs. Colleague! They have here claimed from the speaker's desk that most of the population would be locked away by applying the liberal demands. I ask you: What society do you actually live in if you can claim that? It's exactly the other way round: It is not, as you say, about the object of sexual integrity, but it is only about the object of protection of the unmistakable and the young. That's essentially it. There are relatively few perpetrators, but we admit that there are a lot of victims, and that is why you have to intervene hard and create appropriate legal frameworks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I have tabled an amendment and I would just like to briefly explain the content, as the request has already been distributed. I would like to remind you once again that criminal intensification should take place in the case of moral offences. Similarly, §§ 201, 202, 205, 206 and 207 StGB – essentially mentioned by colleagues Krüger – are to be increased in their strictness. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution - it has also been distributed - which clearly outlines the ideas of the liberals in 28 points. There are already some important points that I think are worth mentioning, for example the central reporting points, reporting to the official doctors, absolute reporting obligation for authorities, creating new criminal offences for neglected ads, and the acceptance of a genetic fingerprint in each perpetrator for easier information. – The latter is the sign of the time to be implemented. Furthermore, life-long management supervision after the release of detention should apply to all persons who have been sentenced for sexual child abuse, and it should also be very important! – strengthen anonymization of victims and their living conditions in media coverage. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Minister! They have admitted in the Committee that this will bring about some system breaks in the limitation period, since we want to do so. In this we are all d’accord, that is no question. In particular, however, in terms of criminal intensification, it would not be a system breach at all to provide for life-long criminal punishment in the event of abuse with death. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he knows that too!]] We already know this in the Criminal Code: For example, § 143, heavy robbery, and § 102, extortionary abduction, is a life-long criminal offence when death consequences occur. I think it is important to point out today that the children who have been killed as a result of abuse are as valuable to us as the victims of severe robbery and extortion. And that's what we're gonna do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You yourself have said that you are already working on the next novel in your "strafrechtsnovellen-Find", which also concerns sex criminal law and is obviously to be filed at the end of this year. This makes us hope that at least the threats of punishment we are demanding will still be implemented. In the end, however, it also shows that you were apparently torn out of work, otherwise you would have to realize that there would not be any illegality in the criminal code if life-long criminal punishment had been provided for such sexual abuses. Minister! As it has always been said by colleagues from the Greens – colleague Stoisits – an almost - I would say - unbearable authority, and on this point also the Youth Procuratorship, to which one might refer in such abuses, it seems particularly important to me to present two cases briefly in order to call on your ministry to do something about it. There is a youth lawyer in Tyrol, a magistrate of theology, who not only consider the liberals, but very many important people unable to work in this office. ==References== He became aware of the physical abuse of a boy by his parents on 3 March 1998. ==References== May 1998, for whatever reason, has shownly done nothing! Due to the recent intervention of the reporting forces, he later gave up the victim's identity and faced the perpetrators with the accusations. Today, this grandmother is sorry to have ever sent an advertisement to these people because she lives in constant terror. This man is really useless for this office! Mr. Mag. In my opinion, Christian Reumann, a youth lawyer in Burgenland, is unusable, since he – and I really think this is infam – prevents newspaper articles in the "Kurier". It seems possible for him to prevent a signature action against child abuse or its content from being described. The fact in and for himself is already enough, but his reasoning that he has something against women who want to wash their personal dirt in public is the last thing one expects from a youth lawyer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that it is urgently necessary to review these two juvenile lawyers, and that we should also remember that they might be withdrawn from office. They are, as I have heard, only contract staff; hopefully their contract will soon expire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e7986	I declare that the request by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades, which has just been presented in his key points, has been made in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure copy and distribute what has now, I believe, happened. Furthermore, this request is also accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8140	Furthermore, the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, as set out in his key points, is Mag. In this way, Stadler and comrades were treated in accordance with the previous business regulations. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8281	Mrs Gatterer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8303	Mr President. Minister! For too many children childhood never begins or ends much too early. Daily news reports show us that in a painful way! I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, first of all to try to find solutions at international level, whether it be with regard to the new problem that pornographic material is offered on the Internet or child trafficking, whether it be an effective stop to international crime. In my opinion, we need a great deal of action in this area, and it cannot pass today's debate without calling for international activities, because especially in the area of child trafficking, child prostitution and child pornography, the problem is growing very rapidly. We see that children are getting younger and more and more providers. We can only solve this problem together internationally, and we need solutions to do so. However, it is my conviction, particularly in connection with the terrible acts in the Netherlands, not only the question of the perpetrators, but I also ask: Who are the troubled customers who are actually the engine of this market? – They are anonymous and excuse themselves that children are abused and such terrible acts are at all committed. I would like to come back to some previous speakers in general. It is true that today we have won a stage victory against the abuse of children by means of the Criminal Change Act. We have all long expected that the limitation period for offences against children and adolescents – first – will be extended at last and that, second, there will also be a better and more gentle consultation of children in the case of sexual offences. I believe that this is the right on the part of the children, and we are glad that these changes have been more or less preferred. I am also pleased that there will be a level playing field between sleeping and sleeping-like offences. Minister! We will certainly continue to demand that measures be taken to protect children. They have already referred to it themselves that a very important point is still to be realized, namely the increased protection of victims. We will, together with the Minister for Social Affairs, try to find solutions for the victims, especially in the area of therapy. I believe that all of us – all politicians of this House, no matter which group they belong to – are invited to participate in that marathon race in order to achieve much more for children. Not only will there be laws enough for this, but we must also try to really demand the rights of children and ensure their protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8351	The next item is Mrs Povysil's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8372	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A coalition already has a hard time. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: So far it’s true!]] It is formed together "in good times and in bad times", as it is otherwise called only in marriage. [[Abg. Gatterer: Be Better Than Alone!]] But unfortunately, you can't let yourself get divorced while you can get divorced during a marriage. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Better than to stay alone.]] A coalition partner cannot go away, he must not have his own opinion, but at most, Mr Arbitrary, from the Committee silently "smart" – this is how the SPÖ in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights has done so in the request of the Liberals. [[Abg. Arbitrator: It's just a life partnership!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: A life span partnership!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without inheritance law!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mertel! So it cannot be as bad as you first argued that the age of protection for homosexuals has not been reduced because you left the committee when the Liberals' request came. [[Abg. Dr Mertel: I left the committee?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The SPÖ!]] The SPÖ, your group! Not you personally, but your group. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Because you look at me so compassionately?- Oh, my God!]] Was not even the speech of the free mandate in this House? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is from "vocational" mouth, Mrs. Primaria!]] Was it not even the accusation to the "F" that we signed something to take on political responsibility? – I tell you, in any case, in all its clarity: We do not hide ourselves from the committee, but we are in our opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After the SPÖ had left the Committee, the following news came out of the series of EIAs: If it's important, then the SPÖ isn't there. – That’s not a comment from me, it came from your coalition partner. It is really important, however, and was our package of measures to protect children in a comprehensive manner, which we have tabled in the Committee - the Minister will remember - as a motion for a resolution. Children, says Professor Perner, must have the opportunity to develop their sexuality in peace. It goes on to say that while abuses are on the one hand, younger and younger children would be shown on television, in newspapers and on posters on the other. Because of many such examples – they have already been discussed – it should not be surprising that child abuse is still considered a cavalier offence. But, as I know in the meantime, they are all my opinion, namely that child abuse must never be a cavalier offence. In order to illustrate exactly this, we demand a higher level of punishment than is provided for in the current law on criminal law, especially since, as you know, much too often only the lowest limit of the criminal framework is imposed. You certainly know the case in the paper where a mother brought her child to a mother-in-law. The friend of this mother-in-law has sexually abused the child and has been given six months to do so. Six months as a criminal framework for sexual abuse is simply not enough! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is the law in force! But today we are voting in favour of the amendment.]] – However, the low criminal framework can always be exploited, so we are in favour of a general increase in the criminal framework. Ladies and gentlemen! If a child dies from sexual abuse, I believe that the perpetrator must be removed from society. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What do you understand about it?]] All parents in that country will be right in it. It must, when it comes to this case, simply be locked away from society. A person who abuses a child sexually – we have all talked about the relapse rate, it is up to 80 percent – is under lifelong supervision, even if other groups in this House are not of this opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] Even Member Jarolim, who is unfortunately not present at the moment – he is there, I see him sitting in the back of the committee – clearly said at the committee meeting that lifelong leadership is a measure to be discussed. So you, too, even the SPÖ Members, are of this opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It is very important to me that the victim is at last more important than the perpetrator. The victim must be protected, he should be helped, it deserves our appreciation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you one more case on this subject. In Bad Goisern, a 25 - year - old young man has abused a child. In the opinion of the probationary aid, it was said that the midwives had acted out of "internal distress". [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible! That's unheard of!]] – Where is the inner distress: the perpetrator or the victim? I'm for increased victim protection. We are in favour of extending the crime victim law to ensure free treatment of the psychological damage of the unmistakable. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! That's the plane that you're so despicably despicable on which we're moving. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you will probably admit that arrogance is stupidity. And there is simply a difference between a political theorist and someone who is confronted with this problem every day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But our request was rejected. However, there are negotiations between the Ministry of Justice and Social Affairs, at least the Minister says. If we did not constantly provoke you, we would not draw your attention to it, if we did not go to the public, we would not ask questions and requests, then this new government template would be much later, it would probably not even be negotiations under way, Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You jumped on the moving train!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This law on criminal law is a small step in our direction. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We initiated that two years ago! You haven't talked about it yet!]] We are particularly important to us in the Criminal Law Change Act – and in this matter we are entirely of your opinion; listen to me! – the gentle consent of children. There are many details that we can agree with, just not the whole law. But we value it as a success, because we have moved you to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You've never agreed to a victim protection provision lately!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are fortunately moving in our direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8706	It is reported as the next Member of Parliament. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8736	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a few comments on § 320. First: The recast of the para. 2 of § 320 in the Criminal Code is not to be understood in this way – on which we were all agreed in the Committee – that by the third paragraph of point (b) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 to the full, but only to the extent that the decision of the Council of the European Union is taken. [[Abg. Young: We were not together!]] Secondly, The fear of Green MEPs that it would be indirectly "bubbled" on neutrality has no real basis. The basic structure of § 320, which is essentially a follow-up to V and XIII of the Hague Agreement, but above all, Mrs Collabor, the constitutional rank of the Neutrality Act, excludes the § 320 criminal code from those instruments which are suitable to give new content to the permanent neutrality of Austria. In other words: Any attempt to give the current existence of the legal status of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Neutrality of Austria via a revision of § 320 new salary would lead to its unconstitutionality. Thirdly, I would like to make it clear – and I say it myself, so that no one has to call in a mockery; I am also referring to my colleague, Mr Swoboda, who made comments on this a few days ago – that the revision of the § 320 Criminal Code is also an expression of our unbroken conviction that peacekeeping measures and even more the creation of peace in the legitimation of the United Nations Security Council. In the field of CFSP, this is due to the clear wording of the type. XI para. 1, 1 and 3. The mirror rate, the EU Treaty, is clear about all doubts. Decisions by Art. 17 in cohesiveness with Art. 17 23 EU Treaty is certainly non-Community if it violates the principles of the United Nations Statute. Each and every one of these central competences of the UN Security Council is also an indication of the fundamental importance of the prohibition of violence and thus of one of the fundamental foundations of the world peace which has already been called into question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe this should be clarified on this occasion. Finally, let me say something about § 209. I am sorry that there is no willingness to change in this respect by our coalition partner. I come around a lot in European institutions and in other countries. I am often in a position to be deeply ashamed of a provision of Austrian law and I am sorry that fellow citizens in our country are exposed to this real injustice. I hope that one day we will come to a change, not just in the interests of fellow citizens, but in the interests of our own truthfulness.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8780	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8829	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to refer to § 165 of the Law on Criminal Law, which I believe is a strengthening of the money laundering directive or its national implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals, of course, are on the European Union's money laundering directive, as it is a suitable framework instrument for combating organised crime and combating money laundering. Of course, we are also in the form of national implementation of this directive. It is also possible to discuss intensifications, as is the case with § 165. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this goes far beyond the mere existence of money laundering and that there are great dangers in it. In this way, an extension is made to the state of the de facto of the black money. In my opinion, however, this is a clear concept, Mr Federal Minister, which will result in no higher degree of legal certainty but, in my opinion, more legal uncertainty. That may not be the purpose of adopting a good law. Why do I say that? – This is a question of extending the locust provisions, for example, or, let us say so, involving the knowledge of bankers. I do not think that we have a great deal of fun for the Austrian economy, the Austrian banking sector, but also for the banks as a whole, if this may lead to thousands of bank workers being criminalized, ladies and gentlemen. I guess it can't be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because what will happen? – Following the regulation of § 165, some will now be afraid in the banks. You will say: If I do not question in every respect where a saver has taken his money, I risk being threatened with a sentence of up to two years or a fine of 360 daily rates. Federal Minister! What will be the result? – There will be an increase in the number of bankers who fear their impotence to report. Then we'll start the abuse, Mr. Federal Minister! Then this comes to a complete erodement of the Austrian banking secret, which is already sloppy like Swiss cheese. Federal Minister! There would be an urgent need for a remedial measure here. I am surprised that, in view of the discussion on the abolition of anonymity, there is no willingness of the government parties – if we are already planning to tighten up the money laundering provision here – not at the same time to make a complete re-establishment towards a more stringent banking secret. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is what I think is going on in this debate, and I think this is simply a big failure. So much for § 165. . We will certainly not give our consent to this, even if we will be in many other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! A few sentences on sex law: I can certainly not join an argument, namely the drilled argumentation of the Liberals and their Club-wife Heide Schmidt. Because that's really something else. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's a character question!]] Heide Schmidt and the Liberal Group are demonstrating that sexual abuse is constantly being confused with sexual tendencies. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is a foreign word!]] But this group is in favour of it itself by making permanent applications which, in reality, aim only at: Protective age down, down and down again! I do not think it can be. That is one of the reasons why I do not belong to this group anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8931	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e8953	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the incidents of the last few weeks and the increasing abuse of children and young people, I think it is unfortunate that the Liberals and the Greens continue to insist on their request for the deletion of § 209. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I am saddened by – I must say this again – that not even the crimes of the abuse scandal in Bad Goisern – that male youths, even between the ages of 14 and 16, were abused and shamed by a 52-year-old for whom the maximum penalty of five years for the same sex of fornication with persons under 18 years of age caused them to rethink. I think that is really worrying, ladies and gentlemen, and on this path the People's Party will certainly not follow you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Their request to delete § 209 would result in a criminal release of the gender sexual relationship between a 14-year-old and a 52-year-old. That must be clear to you! That is what we do not want, and that is why we refuse to agree to your liberalisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What about a 14-year-old? What about girls?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that there is no reason to reduce this age of protection. Nor do we allow it to be spoken of as discrimination and exclusion of minorities. We are firmly opposed to all this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not about discrimination, it is not about exclusion, it is only about reducing the protection of young people from sexual assaults or reducing a possible threshold of inhibition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: And what is the reduction of old age?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are not talking about discrimination and exclusion also shows the fact that in § 72 StGB we have extended the right to testimonies to equal sexual partners, including permanent homosexual and lesbian communities. This clearly undermines the allegation of discrimination due to a particular sexual orientation, and we create those human rights provisions that you always require from us. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do we confess to retain § 209? – In our opinion, the state has the task – yes, the criminal duty! – to protect male young people from sexual assaults of adults. We therefore see these many-quoted homosexual paragraphs as protection paragraphs for young people and not as discrimination paragraphs for homosexuals and lesbians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Undisputed must also be that homosexuals, but also sexual assaults of other kinds at this age are particularly difficult to deal with and particularly harmful. The reason why we are so consistently committed to this age of protection is also that we want to protect young people and children from those adults who are interested in sexual contact, especially with the young age group, so-called pedophile adults who, with their sexual disorder and sexual neurosis, are not afraid of attacks on children and on young people. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that the legislator has no doubt to decide on the protection of young people and on questionable experiments with the psychological health of thousands of young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we think the deletion of § 209 is wrong. We reject this with good conscience, because it would be the wrong signal right now.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9052	Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9074	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the request of Mr Ofner to the anti-criminal law amendment law in 1230 of the supplements as amended by the Committee's report: Request according to § 65 para. 5 GOG by Dr. Harald Ofner on the Government template concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, the Banking Act and the Insurance Supervision Act (1230 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee Report (1359 of the Supplements) The signed Members request a separate vote in respect of Rule I Z 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, Rule II Z 2, 3, 4, 5. Mr Kukacka has straight ahead of me quite marked tones and marked the "hard Max". I read something to you, Mr Kukacka: A reduction of the insomnia to 12 years is medieval. – Send out your colleague Fekter. We did not end up in the early Middle Ages, but in the late Middle Ages. So it is about the hardness of the ÖVP when it comes to keeping promises! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today's "Press" writes about the "phantom at the Ring" that "important sessions always end up in chaos". Like this time: "Stretcher measures against child abuse and milder anti-neutral hazards under one hat." - Quote. This marks today's meeting very well. It's just going down and over. It also shows that you do not seem to have too much heart on both of these issues. They just want to get them over the stage quickly, bringing them away unpleasant topics quickly before the summer. You don't have too much to care about. It is also noted that there are contributions to the debate and the speaking time that you are limited so that you can come home earlier today. That's what it looks like in reality, my Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Now to change the situation of the threat of neutrality, which Mr Schieder has already referred to – and rightly so. Because we experience nothing but a sluggish erodement of neutrality, even if this is always disputed by the SPÖ, because it cannot admit it before its voters. In this case, I must say, the ÖVP is successfully driving the SPÖ ahead. This is one of the few cases in which you seem to be really able to make some progress step by step. What do we decide today? – First of all, we have missed out on the possibility of repairing an error that is already present in the law. For this law allows, in the form to be decided, that, if a decision of the United Nations Security Council is made on military measures, criminal arms dealers or someone who is setting up an armed organization in Austria will remain free of punishment. That is what you, ladies and gentlemen, decide, knowing that you decide; out of stubbornness! In fact, Mr President, ladies and Arbitrators have proposed a way in principle, but the ÖVP has remained stubborn and has not gone. Why not, it's just incomprehensible! Maybe you wanted to perform a power demonstration? – This is possible. In any case, this has not served the law and the meaning of the law. Today, the "Kurier" writes with the right: The "four-bands" – Mr President, that is not from me, but it is a quote from the "curer" – this "four-bands" has solved the problem of the threat of neutrality so that it is no longer present in EU decisions. "The SP-Schlappe... made the duo Klima/Kostelka bet for this with the medical house pharmacies." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! Four-bands! Ordinary call!]] That excites Mr. Khol. Listen to me: I quoted the "Kurier"! Would you like to forbid me, Mr. Khol? – It meets you, but obviously this is already different from the liberals and speak, as the "Kurier" clearly writes, of the "four-bands". This is also reflected in the uniform voting behaviour. The public is slowly aware that the other opposition parties will only vote with you if it comes to it. It is no longer your concern to carry out matters. It is just a matter of dealing with the FPÖ in general. But you won't succeed. The voter knows at least clearly where the opposition is really sitting and where he can vote against it. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka beats his hands together.]] Just clap your hands, Mr Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The risk of neutrality is also something else. It is clear from the presentation that a decision by the Council of the European Union, which refers to the Treaty of Amsterdam, also provides the opportunity to remain impunity in the area of neutrality. – But now I still have the SPÖ’s assurances that you would never agree to a decision in the EU if it were harmful to neutrality! But if, anyway, it is not decided that way and if Austria did not have anything like it, then it would not have been necessary to take in these paragraphs! This is another concession to the ÖVP, an additional "Schauferl" in the attempt to further affect neutrality. I'm just gonna find out. It will make work easier for many in Austria. Take, for example, the current situation – I know, Mr Schieder will say again that the Amsterdam Treaty has not yet been signed by everyone – that the EU's Foreign Minister is chairing the EIA, and imagine that the EU is taking a decision without the United Nations and that Austria is not taking part! He then has to do what the EU says to him as an EIA foreign minister, but we in Austria are opposed and prevent the transfer. Please, how do you do this in reality? – Of course, only through changes. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This would contradict the 23rd EU Treaty! That's not what you're saying!]] If he does, he will certainly not object to it, for otherwise he could not take the presidency at all. You are clumsing here step by step and systematically the neutrality, ladies and gentlemen. Finally go to the public and discuss this with the public! Let's get a referendum! But you will, I tell you, and you have already heard it in the last session, be laid by the SPÖ. It will be held shortly after the EU Presidency, the NATO issue will be put to the fore, and you will not have the time to make clear to the public what the situation is like. After these elections, the SPÖ will be at your expense of the laughing third parties. We can take a look at this. You will pay for it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any case, one thing is certain: They will not lead us to get rid of this issue. We will keep it to you again and again, even if you have been successful with the SPÖ. The SPÖ – as it was with the future Chief of General Staff – has either been overturned by you, has been pulled over the table or something else. That's where you've been. But for the sake of legal clarity and legal certainty, this decision is certainly not favourable today. We will not agree with him either.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9156	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9177	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In the near future, there will be a risk of neutrality: The demands of the SPÖ, one would make the amendment of Article 23f B-VG – the opening of the possibility of combat operations involving Austrians in the context of the CFSP – only on the basis of a UN or OSCE decision, were wrong, otherwise we would not need this change in the StGB. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] Unfortunately, the statements made by my previous speaker are also true. Open with this scheme They are not only the possibility of Austrians participating in EU fighting and thus partying for a war party on foreign territory, but also allow private arms dealers to intervene in conflicts for very lucrative reasons without criminalising themselves. I think that this is really unresponsible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore make a request which is very short and which corresponds to the verbal demands of the Social Democrats, but not to what you are doing. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] We do not want to ignore the provisions on the threat of neutrality any more than has already been done in the Gulf war. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think that's a good thing!]] A word about sex law: Mrs. Dr. Povysil! Personally, I take your motivation from you, but what has become of it is partly half-hearted and no longer serious to take. We have – I think it was the 50. or 51. ASVG-Novelle – in this house the psychotherapy decided on a health certificate. This is not yet a full substitute for a real aid for crime victims, but it would be an opportunity to support at least once those victims of crime. What the psychotherapy failed to do? – In view of the fact that the medical profession was not prepared to enter into health insurance contracts at reasonable economic conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: These are psychologists and not doctors!]] Mrs. Dr. Povysil! If you're serious with the victim protection – Dr. Leiner! – then, in the Chamber of Doctors, you make a strong effort to ensure that at least the victims of crime are actually given this aid. That would be credible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You confuse doctors with psychologists!]] One more step, and that would be a first step: If it is serious with the help, I believe that, in particular, the medical profession here in Parliament should go ahead with a good example. Another thing: I have the urgent requests of the liberals of the 7th century. July – at that time, the Povysil application – and today – was compared with that request, which is not being submitted, but is introduced as a normal request. The differences – apart from what is decided today – are quite strange: The Povysil application of 7. July has included a passage which is no longer contained in the application for Schweitzer, namely the passage that persons, organizations and media, who produce pornography and pornographic representations of all kinds, show, commend, glorify, make accessible or support, are excluded from any public support. – Pornography, not child abuse – Your own application! We have drawn your attention to this. This would have been absolutely true of the Freedom Party of Lower Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, that's it?]] Very strange: This passage is missing now. You're so "believable" in your requests! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is public money...!]] One of the last ones in the direction of Mr Kukacka: You are there in a very sick alliance, which will also be able to report to you your clubman Khol from the Presidential. Mr Kukacka! Abuse must always be punishable. Actions against the will of a person are always punishable. It is the question of where the age of protection lies. If you stand here for a cross-border sexual morality in which apparently young women who have sexual contacts with substantially older heterosexual men are less vulnerable, then I must say: Apparently, the ÖVP represents the sexual morality of older male heterosexual Lustmolche. – I say: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9323	The text of the amendment has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reported in the word anymore. This debate is therefore closed. There is also no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, which will take a little longer. I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their place. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1230 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1359 of the Supplements. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled supplementary or amendment amendments. Mr Vanner has also asked for a separate vote. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Stoisits and his comrades submitted supplementary and amending proposals. Therefore, I will first vote on the supplementary proposals - in series - then on the parts concerned by the amendments and on the request for separate votes - and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 1a to 1c into Article I. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the inclusion of new points 5a to 5d in Article I. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Members Dr Krüger and Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z 6a in Article I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is done by the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request for inclusion of a new Z 6a in Article I concerning the repeal of § 209. [[The representatives of the SPÖ leave the hall closed.]] [["Ah" rupture at the liberals]] In the event of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Encounter!]] It's called for enumeration. I will, of course, comply with this request. 12 Members voted in favour of this request. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that this amendment is against the vote. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're complete!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] – The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How much? There's no such thing as that!]] [[The SPÖ returns to the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The voting procedure continues. That's why I'm asking... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Please, for business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9422	Mr President. 51 Members of the European Parliament and 30 Members of the European Parliament cannot together result in 61.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9455	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Recount!]] [[Call to the liberals: Repeat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! May I ask for a moment of rest. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not necessary to repeat, but only to clarify what I have mentioned. Please wait a moment for patience. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 84 it is!]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: You have deunified, Mr President! What else do you want?]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Count right!]] I repeat: The officials counted 61 votes in agreement. [[Abg. Kiss: (significant towards the liberals) With us it is 51, sitting there 30!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I can come back to that and ask you to rest. My count was 81. I have been told by the officials "61", and I have repeated this number – I admit, almost automatically. Thus, "61" has been deunified. But I say right now that, after my count, it was 81 votes against. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: That's right!]] It is indeed true that the addition of those now present after club strength and also the appearance make the result of 61 relatively unlikely. I therefore put my enunciation in the right way, when 12 votes were in place, but 81 votes against. We are now continuing in the voting procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. IZ 1 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to take action to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Dr. Krüger and comrades have tabled an amendment which is of a kind. I.C. 2 refers. I call on those Members of the House who wish to give their approval to this House to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I Z 2, now in the version of the Government template. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have an amendment concerning the deletion of Z 3 and Z 5 in Art. I brought in. I am looking for the ladies and gentlemen who want to stand up for this to be a sign of the same. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is also a lack of a vote on the requested amendment of the numbering designations in kind. I. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. IZ 3 and Z 5 in 1230 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1359 of the Supplements. I would ask those Members of the House who want to stand up for this to be a sign to this effect. – This is the majority. Accepted. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled a motion for an amendment which is in the form of a motion for a resolution. I.Z 6. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I am therefore immediately leaving it on the subject. IZ 6 in 1230 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1359 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I points 7, 8, 11 to 13 as amended by the Government template. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment which makes the deletion of Z 14 in Art. I am. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore be voting on the same legislative provision in 1230 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1359 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for the relevant sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. II points 2 to 5 as amended by the Government template. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt in 1230 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1359 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades on effective measures against child abuse and child pornography. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of this report III-74 of the supplements. If you take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1361 of the supplements. If you wish to give your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1362 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1363 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – The vote will be taken by majority vote. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1364 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This approval takes place in the majority of cases. Accepted. 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 802/A by Dr Leiner and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Pharmacopoeia Act (1381 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9608	I'm calling 23. Agenda item. I assume that there has been no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speech is by Mr Pumberger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9639	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At this voting ceremony it was clearly seen how the work of the so-called great coalition – the former great coalition – works and how one agrees: If a surprising opposition request comes, then you are quite simple and simply too cowardly to show the forehead, and a whole group, the state-bearing SPÖ Group, the strongest group in this House, refuses to announce its voting behaviour and withdraws from the plenary room. That's really embarrassing! [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Get down! Abg. Arbitrators: It is not all right for you to say, "Too coward!"]] It is really embarrassing if you do not have the backbone, for what you stand for, too, and to vote accordingly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apart from that, the various Presidents of the National Council have repeatedly reminded us that no Member may enter the Chamber during the voting process. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! He is not talking about the matter, he is talking about the voting process!]] So the whole SPÖ group should have stayed outside. That would've been better for her. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But as with § 209, it was also with the regulation concerning house apotheke! It was the same way!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9721	Mr. Schieder! I can't hear anything through the calls! But if this is the case, I would ask you to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9747	Your transpiring is completely unnecessary, Mr Arbitrator, because I have been on the matter for a long time. One Comparison between the one law matter and the one of the house pharmacies will probably still be possible to produce! Because there has been an exchange of interests between red and black! The SPÖ said: We absolutely want that to happen from 1st century onwards. In January 1999, government or national dental ambulatorys are allowed to provide private services to the dental crowns in the sense of extending state medicine, and in return, the ÖVP has been promised in a very fast, but not mature, procedure that the cause of the house pharmacies will go through. Mr Rasinger is already in the first row, because he has succeeded with the strong support of his clubman Khol. He has really fought for it, for this he deserves praise and thanks as a Presidential Officer of the Vienna Chamber of Physicians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You don't have a house apotheke, I have one!]] I think we should have looked more closely at the backgrounds before. As a general doctor, I am convinced – this is what I said this morning – that in rural areas where there is no transport and transport links and the sick and the disabled have no opportunity to drive to the pharmacy that is often four to six kilometres away, a house pharmacy is very likely to have its permissions and a corresponding legal protection of these house pharmacies was and is necessary. However, I would have liked a more mature bill, because I do not know how it is handled, for example, if a doctor in one place has to open his practice, set it up and invest accordingly in them and there is no public pharmacy yet. It must invest millions and also make additional investments because of the establishment of the house apotheke, but a year later the sale of medicinal products may be removed from it, because the validity of the provision comes from 1. 6. 1998 and not from the opening date of the establishment of the public pharmacy. This is an inconsistency, but there are also many other inconsistencies. That is why we should have taken the time to think more carefully about the summer. The ÖVP has already done away with it. In my opinion, because of the transitional justice in exceptional cases, a transitional period of up to 15 years would have been justified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] The protection of trust was necessary, I give it all the same. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Mr Rasinger! You have time to make your arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: On the one hand, I am glad that a sub-regulation has been made. That's what I'm saying quite openly. However, I am sorry that it was not possible to spend another two months – even then it would not have been too late – to put a definitive regulation on the table with which all parties, namely the doctors as well as the pharmacists and especially the patients, could have lived. Mr Rasinger! This law arises after the foreign exchange: "About possible effects and side effects, ask your doctor or pharmacist." [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: But not Pumberger!]] The answer will be given by the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9818	Mrs Pittermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Constitutional Court judgment of March 1998 allows pharmacists freedom of establishment. On the other hand, there would have to be an immediate closure of some house pharmacies without amending the Pharmacies Act. Over the last few months, many Members have seen a flood of arguments from the pharmacies and from the doctors. The population would prefer it if both alternatives were side by side. The legislator must therefore find a viable compromise in order to be fair to all and to ensure the economic survival of doctors and pharmacists. Now the representatives of both sides could be equally satisfied or dissatisfied. However, since one is more dissatisfied with the legislator in principle, I accept the second version, although satisfaction would be indicated. The 'F' opposition, and above all you, Mr Pumberger, have announced to the Committee that perhaps an amendment will be tabled and you do not wish to accept it. We didn't hear your true opinion. I suspect that there is disagreement within the "F" about a decision. That is why it was the best choice for you not to make a decision, because, as usual, you can assure opportunistic two competitors that you would have always represented their position and arguments, but unfortunately the evil government parties, despite violent protests by the liberals, have decided against both the doctors and the pharmacists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] And you wouldn't have waited until autumn if you had opened a public pharmacy in your area and then you should have closed your house apotheque! You wait very easily when other house pharmacies are affected, because you only place on your own worth. The others are indifferent to you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] You can talk and talk afterwards. Don't always interrupt, you rude person! – I know that you are rude when you attack the genitals, but you are otherwise rude! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== 6. In 1998, the current operator may in any case continue until 31. 5. ==References== So there is legal certainty, and anyone who opens afterwards also knows that he may have to close at any time. ==References====External links== 5. In 1998, the expected circumstances were met in confidence in the Pharmacopoeia Act. Every human being has the right to find a certain calculable period in his or her life planning. The doctors now have ten years to change, and the pharmacists also know that they have to compete in the case of new start-ups by May 2008. So what's one thing, and what's the other? – In the pharmacies, the four-eye principle is given, they have a larger range and are open all year round. However, the home pharmacies are welcome to patients in rural areas, as they save away time and can always be provided with medicines by their doctor, which is especially important for less mobile people. The lower range does not bother her, as a doctor usually prescribes only those medicines whose handling is familiar to him. A public pharmacy has a higher turnover and creates additional jobs. Therefore, it is so important to maintain proper eye - size and not to disadvantage anyone. This amendment to the Pharmacies Act has succeeded in taking into account the protection of trust and in creating transitional justice. This law prevents supply gaps, and it serves the well-being of the largest group of the population to be cared for. We are pleased that such important laws will be passed by us on the last plenary day. Finally, I would like to thank all of you, especially the Federal Minister and her team, as well as all Members of Parliament, for a nice and relaxing holiday and for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9917	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, you speak from your place. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9938	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the debate on the house pharmacies, I would like to note that the situation of the solution concerning house pharmacies and dental crowns, which occurred a few minutes ago, clearly reflects the disagreement of the coalition. The motto is: "You get the crowns, for that we get the house pharmacies." - That's the result. And if you don't agree on a number of points, because you have no way to exchange, then you're moving out of Parliament, for example. The regulation concerning the house pharmacies, as it has now been established, will in principle not make any significant improvements, especially for those people who are mobile, i.e. sick and disabled people, persons who have infants or do not have their own cars. You only met the transitional solution by 2008 in order not to have to act. Mrs. Minister! It would be necessary to ensure that the supply problems which are improving on the one hand...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9960	Excuse me, Mrs. Colleague! You probably won't see the lamp. You only have more than a minute's remaining speaking time for the entire club, and I think you have the intention of submitting another motion for a resolution. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e9975	They will not make any improvements, at least not for people who are very limited from mobility. Mrs. Minister! I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know now, however, because I have asked myself that you will not support this motion for a resolution by SPÖ and ÖVP, i.e. the rights of patients and the guarantee of patients to you...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10026	Please put the final sentence to the vote, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10041	That is why we will not agree to the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10071	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The debate is not about the sensitivity of the coalition. Their health is all right. Only those who are not interested in the solution are rubbed. – We were able to make a consensus out of a conflict, and I believe that can please us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that public pharmacies and house pharmacies have worked together well for years and decades. With the recognition of the Constitutional Court, Parliament was now invited to establish a Rules of Procedure in this regard, and after difficult discussions and negotiations it succeeded in finding a solution to this problem. For me, the survey held by Dr. Rasinger in this House was impressive: We were able to gain insights into the gestion of other countries. In view of this, I can say: Let us be happy that we are in Austria, because we have excellent quality of supply. We also want to maintain these, and with this law we can secure them in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are concerned that house pharmacies – for the first time in ten years – will be preserved where we need them, where they first provide care function and second, especially in low-inhabitant areas, also have the task of being a stave and a support of the medical practices. The latter is to be said here too, because in this way not only medical care, but also medical and medical care is ensured. I am aware that this is a very controversial issue. This has also had to be felt by our colleague Dr. Leiner in the last few days, when he was told that a convention would be withdrawn from his place of origin in case we decided to pass this law here. – I think he will stand it, and we are glad that we were able to find this solution. Mrs. Federal Minister! Their participation is obvious, and I believe that the joint has brought us an essential piece forward. I believe that we can say today and here that we are adopting a law in the interests of the citizens. Now that we are going out in the summer, I wish everyone a relaxing summer and hope you won't need a public pharmacy or a house pharmacy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10154	Mrs. Hostasch has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10175	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in Austria we can talk about an excellent supply for the population of medicinal products. This is due to a good cooperation between the public pharmacies and the established doctors with the house pharmacies. The Constitutional Court judgment has now significantly influenced this form of care, because the main criterion – the need test for the approval of public pharmacies – has been removed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore very glad that the amendment to the Pharmacies Act will be adopted today because it will enable my department to accept existing applications and also future requests for the opening of public pharmacies on the basis of this legal basis and to adopt appropriate decisions. This ensures that the population is provided at least at the same level, if not at a better level, and in this way we can take into account an important criterion of our constitutional right – the protection of trust for the house pharmacies. In this sense: Thank you very much for having a clear legal basis for future decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10216	Mr Krüger has now been reported to speak. The remaining speaking time of your club is 15 minutes, a voluntary time limit is not required. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10237	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore still speaking because one of the cases handled by my firm was one of the occasions for the recognition of the Constitutional Court. I would just like to warn you now because I think that you have made a mistake with this law: For those – and there are some, dear Mrs. Federal Minister – who, half a year ago, a year ago, or two years ago, have made applications for a concession for a public pharmacy in confidence that the respective house pharmacies must be closed, are now facing a completely different situation. They have invested millions in the confidence that, according to the previous situation, the house pharmacies must be closed. Now, suddenly, the situation is quite different, not through the constitutional court's knowledge, but through this new law, at once, because the doctors who lead the house pharmacies do not have to lock them to their own surprise. I therefore promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that this innovation of a review by the Constitutional Court will not stand out precisely from the thought which the Federal Minister has addressed, namely the idea of protecting trust.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10270	Mrs. Hostasch has now made his speech again. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10289	Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a formal reference to the fact that the Constitutional Court's judgment, which is the real occasion for this debate, is with 1. This year, all requests made before this date were made on the basis of the legal situation before the Constitutional Court judgment was passed and therefore it could not be assumed that the Constitutional Court will waive the need assessment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their place in each case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1381 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the universal supply of medicinal products to the population. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The agenda is now exhausted. I note now that, according to my decision to allow a urgent request only after 24 o'clock, the urgent request 860/A (E) by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and comrades do not get to the call, as this meeting does not last beyond 24 hours. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has reported on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10393	Mr President. I continue to argue, as was the case in the Presidency, that this urgent question, even if the time had now exceeded 24 o'clock, would be called in in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I assume that the Rules of Procedure are exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10418	Thank you, Mr Klubobmann. There is a further word for business treatment. Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10442	Mr President. High house! The President-in-Office of the Council was very much concerned about whether the day of the sitting would end with the calendar day. The majority of the opinion was that according to § 13, which also mentions the calendar week and the calendar month, the calendar day on which a meeting takes place is the day of the meeting. And this majority opinion of the President-in-Office of the Council is, in our group's view, indicative of the decision that a urgent request or a urgent request should be allowed if the session is to last at 24 o'clock. For at 24 o'clock, Mr Kostelka, the calendar day is supposed to end, i.e. that the urgent one would have been allowed from 0 o'clock and 1 minute!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10477	There are no further statements on business treatment. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10499	We are therefore entering into a short debate, which concerns the request made by Mr Wabl, the Building Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 847/A (E) concerning Federal Road B 67b – Eggenberger Gürtel Straße, a period of time until 20. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into the debate. The time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure were well-known to me. Mr Wabl has the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10533	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For many in this House, this is an object that is unknown to them. But the Member of Parliament from Styria is certainly a concept of the northern spange of Graz. This northern team was ordered in the last decade. However, the Minister of Economic Affairs and also the responsible state government in Graz and the city government did not consider it necessary, despite completely new planning and despite changed detailed planning, which clearly contradicts the Federal Road Law, to repeal the old regulation and to adopt a new regulation. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not simply a mistake, but, in my opinion, it is a conscious violation of the law as is usual in Styria. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] We do not want the citizens' initiative that has formed there to be a party position. If this regulation were to be re-adopted, the citizens of the citizens' initiative would have a party position there. Now, in Graz, preparatory work and construction work are already being carried out to an extent and an extent of 40 million schilling, in a road construction that is not prescribed. I'll tell you: We will make every effort to stop this construction project on the legal basis, because this is clearly contrary to the Federal Road Law. I ask you – especially those who are out of Styria or who care about these matters – to terminate this state as soon as possible and to establish the rightful state in Graz. I have therefore set a very short period of time because I expect those who are from Styria to take serious care of this matter. – Mr Maitz, Mr Zweytick, Mr Kröll, Mrs Cordula Frieser! You should take a close look at this, because there is suspicion of abuse. It's quite clear: The action of the construction authorities is illegal, it is against the applicable federal road law, and 40 million Schilling threatens to be put into the sand. I would therefore ask you to agree to this deadline. You have shown yesterday and today how quickly committee meetings can be convened and how quickly certain requests can be decided. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that, given the beginning of the summer break, this issue is not of great interest to you. Mr Kröll! I just wanted that none of you, especially the Styrian Members, can say later: We didn't know! Would you have told us that right away!. Ladies and gentlemen! They will be held responsible for this once again – and this is not the first time – we will prevail at the courts due to your illegal action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10599	I call Mr Kurzmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10621	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Freedom Party will support the Greens' request for deadlines, because we believe that this project should be discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who is that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The shortman!]] However, we are not of the opinion of the Green Group because we have really discussed this project in Graz for years, have discussed it widely, and all the parties represented in the city Senate – SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman – are for this project, and that after a will-building of 15 years. I do not think we can always discuss until the smallest citizens' initiative is satisfied. There is also another, the initiative "Pro Nordspange". There are two stakeholders there who have been working against each other for years. The city of Graz has largely carried out a clear will formation. In the interests of the population we need this B 67b very urgently, because the traffic is currently suffering through the residential areas. [[Abg. Wabl: It is about legality, Mr Kurzmann!]] From this point of view, I would like to point out that what Mr Wabl has said is that it is a habit that the laws in the Styria are constantly being violated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that it is important in the sense of a modern transport policy – the B 67b is an environmentally friendly underfloor – to build this route as quickly as possible. – Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10689	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. We are now voting on the request to the Building Committee to report on the application 847/A (E) for the Federal Road B 67b, Eggenberger Gürtel Straße, a period of time until 20. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Therefore, the application was rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10730	I declare that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made for 860/A to 867/A and questions 4788/J to 4839/J were raised. Finally, Mr Lammer and Mrs Haidlmayr have each raised a question to the President of the National Council. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10754	I note that Mr Rosenstingl did not attend this meeting of the National Council either. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Decision to terminate the ordinary meeting 1997/98
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10782	In agreement with the political groups, I would like to make the following request to the House: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the regular meeting of the XX in 1997/98. The legislative period of the National Council at the end of the 137. To end the meeting of the National Council." The House shall vote on this request. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign on this point. To my great surprise, I note that this request has been adopted unanimously. [[Call:No! The Wabl's sitting.]] . I correct and note that this request was adopted by a majority. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-17-020-XX-NRSITZ-00137_d7e10817	On the basis of a request from 20 Members, I read the Official Protocol so that it can be deemed approved at the end of the sitting and the decisions taken today can be drawn up immediately. - So long? [[General hustle and bustle.]] – I read the following part of the Official Protocol: Agenda as set out in Annex A: In the case of those referred to in § 50 para. For all items on the agenda with the necessary two-thirds majority, the agenda of the Rules of Procedure shall not be subject to the 24-hour deadline of the reports. There is no objection to the President's proposal to negotiate agenda items 2 to 16 and 17 to 22 respectively. There is a request of 20 delegates according to § 51 para. 6 GoG to read the Official Protocol. Agenda item 1 deals with the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the preparation of the request for a loss of mandate by Mr Peter Rosenstingl, in accordance with Rule 141(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 B-VG. (1380 of the supplements). The vote will take place in such a way that the main committee's request for the loss of mandate by Mr Rosenstingl in 1380 is adopted unanimously. The remaining statements of the Official Protocol do not require any reading, as they concern points 2 to 16. I now address to the National Council the question of whether the Members of Parliament agree to this version of the Official Protocol or whether they object to the selected parts of the Official Protocol. This is not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 GMOs as approved by the end of this meeting. Conclusions of the President President Dr Heinz Fischer: Ladies and gentlemen! We have thus arrived at the end of this sitting and at the same time at the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the staff of the House, all our employees, including the members of the political groups. I would also like to say a word of thanks to the staff of the individual Members. I would also like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference for the very important and successful cooperation that is not always easy, but ultimately – as I believe – very important and successful. I wish you all a nice summer and good rest! This meeting is closed.
