ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5195	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 106. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 104. Meeting of 11. ==References== Meeting of 12. In December 1997, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Peter, Morak and Schwarzböck. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5229	The Federal Chancellor made a statement on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government as follows: Ms. Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs Eleonora Hostasch is through Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Barbara Prammerress. – This will therefore also come to the fore in the current hour. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5259	We are now arriving at the current hour. The subject is: "The failure of the Federal Government increases unemployment" First of all, Mr Magistrate, is speaking. Chief. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5289	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In his statement, the Federal Chancellor, after the Council of Ministers meeting, held on 13 December, held a meeting of the Council of Ministers. January this year states that the year 1998 is the "year of work and employment" for this Federal Government. Equivalent statements have already been made by the United Party of the Social Democratic/Austrian People's Party in the 1987 Government Declaration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Maintaining the highest level of employment has the highest priority. In the 1990 Government Declaration, the "red-black single party" has repeated: Active and efficient labour market policies must be given priority. In the 1994 Government Declaration, you, ladies and gentlemen of the "ÖVP/SPÖ Unit Party", have repeated: The reduction in unemployment, the increase in employment, in particular women and workers before the statutory retirement age, and the increase in the quality of employment are also aimed at achieving the goal of the new labour market service. In your own government statement, the 1996 Government Declaration states: It is necessary to have an economic policy that makes it possible to expand existing businesses and to build new ones – whether by foreigners or by foreigners – in order to create and maintain jobs in a meaningful manner. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The 1997 Government Declaration also had the fight against unemployment on the subject. The central question was undoubtedly that unemployment should be reduced. ==References====External links== January 1998 you have repeatedly announced this goal, and on 13 March 1998 you will be able to find a solution to this problem. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has once again explained this. All these declarations of intent and all of these, ladies and gentlemen of the "red-black united party", have led to the following unemployment figures in 1989 we had a low of 149 178 unemployed – and then we went downhill. [[Further calls to SPÖ and ÖVP]] 1991: 165,000 unemployed, 1992: 193 000 unemployed, 1994: 214 000 unemployed, 1996: 230 000 unemployed, 1997: 233 500 unemployed; and in January 1997 we had a peak of 302,000 unemployed – the first time since 1949 that the brand was exceeded by 300 000. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, after ten years of work offensive of this Federal Government, the current figures from mid-January this year: an unemployment record 1998. In the Federal Capital of Vienna, with 79 695 unemployed, 8.9% are currently unemployed more than in 1997. According to the labour market service forecasts, at the end of January of this year, more than 80 000 Viennese women will be unemployed for the first time. The failure of employment policy is already having an effect in the residential district of the Federal Chancellor. In its home district of Schwechat, unemployment in January has reached an increase of 11.5 percent compared to the previous year, which is really painful. The high unemployment rate is no longer acceptable to all in Austria! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the numbers of unemployed and also consider your lip confessions, you will see that what is happening on our labour market is homemade. You, ladies and gentlemen, have done everything in recent years to promote passive labour market policies. Austria is in the final place in an EU-wide comparison with a share of only 10 percent of the funds spent on active labour market policy. At the Luxembourg employment summit, too, you have been warned that Austria must put its initiatives more towards active labour market policy, away from passive labour market policies. In the context of the apprenticeship offensive, which has at least brought the slight reduction of 3.5 percent of the number of jobseekers in the area of persons under 30 years old, you, ladies and gentlemen, have not kept your promises to the Austrian youth. At 400 teaching places in the Federal Republic of Germany you have promised a doubling, but you have actually created only 150 additional courses. The Austrian communities were more exemplary, they have actually created new jobs in this area. The Austrian economy and the Austrian industry have gone ahead with a good example. Nevertheless, the promises of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany could not be fulfilled with regard to youth. The Federal Chancellor had claimed that no young people would be standing on the street in autumn. – In fact, however, today still more than 2 900 young people – net! – do not find a teaching centre and 7 200 young people are in short-term training. – All these are the official figures of the labour market service, the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] The labour market service suggests that in 1998 young people looking for a job will be in danger and that some of those young people who are now in training will not find adequate jobs, because training in these courses is not in conformity with the dual system of apprenticeship training in Austria. The concerns expressed by the economic operators and the Chambers of Commerce in Austria about this policy can be answered as follows: Your concerns, Mr President-in-Office, and your President-in-Office, Mr Maderthaner. Austria is also a final international comparison with regard to the self-employed rate. Austria is third in this regard at 6.6 percent in the OECD comparison, although you are initiating a "founder offensive" after another. The Federal Government is tough with regard to the achievement of the objectives it sets out to implement. And the tokens for that pay hundreds of thousands of Austrians! More than 860 000 Austrians were affected by unemployment last year, and with 139 days the length of residence in unemployment has also decreased marginally by half a day. All the offensives you have promised since 1984 have not yielded anything. With regard to bureaucracy, Austria still has bad data: The procedures continue to last longer in Austria than in comparable EU countries, which last about twice as long as those in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] We are still in the final analysis of the bureaucracy and prevention of the establishment of self-employed businesses. However, some of the statistics have, admittedly admittedly, been balanced by the fact that, as it were, occupations who once considered self-employed have migrated to the self-employed, at least according to statistics, they seem to have been successful in the field of self-employment. The fact is that in all those areas for which it has announced its actions since 1984, the Federal Government is rigid or hesitant. Instead, you, ladies and gentlemen, from the unity party "ÖVP/SPÖ", in the public, are giving thought to things you've been getting behind the scenes for a long time – this proves, for example, the family debate that is currently taking place – in order to be able to place new numbers of jubilant numbers in the room week after week, which you have actually discussed and made out in internal bodies long before Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians will no longer lose this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your announcement policy failed! And the goal of creating more employment in Austria, more jobs from which you can really live, has clearly missed you! Women's employment has reached a new alarming low in Austria in recent years. The women who have initiated the women's popular desire are right: In recent years, the situation of women in Austria has deteriorated dramatically. Many ladies are still thinking back today with grief to Social Minister Hesoun, who was not very popular with them at the time, because under him at least the difference between the incomes of women and men in this country was slightly reduced. In the meantime, this sheer has continued to grow, and women have continued to be discriminated against in terms of employment. No point – I emphasize: no one point! – women’s desire has been implemented to date, and discrimination against women at the workplace is still going on and going. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing to do with pursuing a pure policy of announcement and failing to do so in practice! It can only be hoped that the year 1998 will actually be a year of employment and not again a year of the announcement policy of the "red and black united party", which we already know enough.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5393	Ms Mag came to the subject-matter of an opinion. I'm talking about prammer. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5415	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, the National Council has discussed the issues of employment policy, labour market policy and unemployment several times. Nothing has changed in the positions of the Federal Government: Its priority is not only to secure employment but above all to extend it, to create new, additional employment and training conditions and to develop the [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] to enable acquisitions of those qualifications that ensure the successful economic and social path of Austria. However, the Federal Government does not regard it as an appropriate way of making political small money through the uncertainty of the population, especially and especially of those affected by unemployment, by addressing uncertainties regarding the prospects for the future of young people, the stability of pensions and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The Federal Government takes seriously the concerns of people about jobs, the fear of unemployment and the associated economic, social and psychological consequences, but is opposed to anxiety, ghost painting and political instrumentalisation of the legitimate concerns of the Austrians. Against such a policy, as it is in particular operated by the FPÖ, the Federal Government presents the facts that I am now going to address very briefly. [[Abg. Böhacker: No polemics from the government bank!]] The enormous economic momentum in all areas has also affected employment. In addition to Norway, Denmark and Ireland, Austria is the only European country with a strong employment growth since 1990. Compared with 1990, we have 175,000 more self-employed workers, compared with 1983, it is 320 000 more, i.e. an increase of 12 per cent. A further 45 000 to 1999 is forecast to increase. A labour market or unemployment ranking carried out by the Institute for Higher Studies, based on relevant indicators such as employment rate, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, clearly points to Austria's first place in the overall EU-wide review! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Before Denmark and Luxembourg, I say that. It can be seen that the argument that is often put forward here is not correct, for example by early retirement. Youth unemployment has fallen significantly in 1997 by more than 1,000 young people. Women's employment increased significantly again in 1997, with 7 499 women being the head of parliament. [[Abg. Böhacker: Fair part-time workers!]] The employment rate of women in Austria is well above the EU average and also above the OECD average. However, the slight decline in the unemployment rate of 15 to 24-year-old women should also be mentioned, because this is also essential and important. Unemployment among 25 to 49 years of age has clearly fallen. The area in which there are problems – and this is also a major challenge for us, the Federal Government – is unemployment of older workers, namely, the more than 50 years old, because unemployment has increased in this area. At the same time, however, in this age group – and this has to be said – the employment dimension has increased enormously, namely by more than 10,000. The Federal Government has also remained unchanged in its approach to employment policy – it also insists on it –: Fighting unemployment through targeted assistance to address structural change, measures to redistribut work, stable policy conditions, predictability for the economy, high purchasing power of the population and active labour market policies. There is always a need for a combination of measures and the interaction of individual aspects of employment policy. There is no single and only means of miracle. Active labour market policy is an important part of employment policy, but not the only element. Labour market policy can primarily help certain groups of people to find or find a job more easily through improved mediation, improved training and a promotion tool. In the next phase – also in the light of the results of the Luxembourg Employment Summit – the aim is to strengthen efforts to achieve a trend towards full employment for the next few years. In essence, the framework conditions for our economy must be one of the top priorities in international comparison, and the opportunities for young people to start are further improved by a differentiated offer – the further development of our dual training system and also the reorganisation of our funding instruments are of particular importance. For the long-term unemployed, promotion of mixed forms of work in the social field and training should be sought. New forms of self-employment should not be regarded as a threat, but should be consciously used by appropriate framework conditions to promote employment, with, in particular, the temporary provision of infrastructure for people – I also say here: especially for women – who want to make themselves independent, a promising way. I believe that the creation of jobs, particularly in the social field, can best be done in the way that non-profit organisations, with start-up assistance from the labour market service, reintegration more than previously unemployed, and at the same time offer social services at reasonable prices and with customer-friendly conditions. The better distribution of work has already received substantial impetus through some legal changes. In this context, I mention only the education or the reduction of working time with a temporary solidarity premium. Now it is about taking advantage of the legal scope by practical implementation of these possibilities. In seasonal sectors, where this has not yet happened, we must press for more stable employment. The discharge of taxes and taxes can only be effected in such a way that it does not endanger the social standard. In other words, the reduction of additional wage costs must be compensated for by other taxes. Value added elements should be used more strongly as the basis for calculating social contributions, in order to relieve the work of taxes and thus reduce the thresholds for the establishment of regular employment relationships. Implementation of the fourth pillar of the Employment Guidelines, promoting equal opportunities for women, sets out priorities aimed at reducing the unemployment gap between men and women, providing child care facilities to increase the compatibility of work and family life, and at facilitating the return to work after interruptions. I would like to mention here that the Minister for Social Affairs has only made a very important contribution in recent weeks: Through the provision of labour market services, new entrants find a transparent, comprehensible and easier way of returning to work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Measures that the labour market service has set up for years will have to be taken. These include training and vocational guidance measures, the provision of jobs in social-economic establishments, the promotion of childcare facilities and the use of rehabilitation aid, women's foundations, fund-making measures and much more. I would like to conclude by stressing that, as a Minister of Women, I have a very intensive dialogue with the AMS, with the AMS bodies of the countries, and above all with the national governments, because I know that only jointly constructive ways can be found, in the sense of what I have done before. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A democratic society needs social security; social security requires a high level of employment. It is therefore the task of all those in the state to make every effort to ensure this. This, of course, concerns the policy of the High House and the Federal Government, as well as the countries and the communities have their responsibilities, and this concerns, above all, and to a particular extent, all in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5492	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are set at 5 minutes each. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5534	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What the Federal Minister has read about this actually begins with: It's all right; we only have one problem: These liberals actually miss us the pleasant life as a politician in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In 1996, we created a special meeting on employment, convened an employment summit. And what are you doing? – You will need two or three years once again until you are overly following us, and call out the year 1998 for the year of work, trying to present us with an X for an U. As to Austria's role as an example of economic growth, all OECD members laugh. Austria was finally in 1997, yes, it has been the last three years, because we have far below the average of OECD economic growth. If you say that Austria is a leader in employment, I have to answer: You don't read your own statistics. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs published the figures for 1995/96/97 in 1997. In these three years – together with Germany – Austria has always had to say that – was the country that had to record a minus in this regard for three years. Three years of employment development! The source comes from the European Union, Economic Data Pocket Book, which is made by you yourself. So what are you talking about, Mrs. Minister? – Stop worrying the population with false information that can be read in every newspaper – but in a correct form –! They are insecure – and not us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say that we are all going to the employment summit in Luxembourg, where we will get the programmes. – Please read what came out in Luxembourg! It's like the hedgehog and the hare: Once again, you say that in Luxembourg, the employment summit is a purely national matter. Do you think you can play hedgehog and hare with us?- Oh, my God! That's laughing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To do this, we can only say: an employment summit between dream and reality. Wake up, Mrs. Federal Minister! Please also read foreign newspapers and not just your own propaganda press, which is pressed with 300 million schilling! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're just masters in the fog, you really have to leave it. The unemployment statistics are admired internationally as a real masterpiece, as a masterpiece of an Austrian malignancy policy. With this you lie to us in the bag and "keep us" almost before structural changes. All this misinformation leads to saying: We're world champions, it's all right! I can only tell you: Clean up these statistics! Read German, English, Swiss or Dutch newspapers about Austrian unemployment statistics! There you can read the right unemployment rate, which is between 12 and 12.5 percent. And that's a completely different number than the one you're talking about. Where will jobs be lost? – In the state area, and this is interesting! Mr Bundeskanzler Klima, Minister of Transport, gave job guarantees at the post office, yes, everywhere. . Now we know that people are being urged to go in early retirement, because we do not have enough with the top position in the EU regarding early pensions. But also in the E-Economy, at the Federal Forests jobs are reduced, thus wherever the state has its hand in play. Only at the bureaucracy index are we top: 22 percent of public employees. This is an Igel-Hase policy: once Luxembourg before, once Austria back! You can do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this is at the expense of consumption, which is at the expense of income, which is at the expense of investment. This is the reason for the weak economic growth that you can read from EU and OECD statistics. But it is also interesting how you fail in the essential areas of job creation, particularly in technology policy. They have achieved a quota in technology policy, which is to be equated with Portugal. According to Minister One of the last meetings of the Industry Committee, we are missing 20.30 billion schilling. Mr Farnleitner concludes this issue by saying that there is no demand for research and development resources. You know that very well about the funds. . Well, if he has previously cleared the Research Fund and is only there the funds, I wonder what request should be made. First you clear the billions, then you give them back. – This is your job policy in the export market supported by the research and development sector! That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only tell you: Export is currently living by the strength of the dollar...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5632	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5647	... and nothing else! Read the "Zürcher Zeitung" from 10/11. January 1998, you can read in it how it really looks in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5686	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5708	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that this present hour is broadcast live on television, because the Austrians have thus seen how Mr. Prinzhorn dealt with a lady, how "galant" he threw it down to her. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why was there this current hour? The subject came from the FPÖ. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The chief butler of the government! He just needs more white gloves!]] – Introductoryly, I welcome the following statement: I've been wondering if we have a current hour or rather a fairy tale hour. Mr Prinzhorn – which is to be read in the Minutes – said "Hare and hedgehog" at least eight or nine times in the 5 minutes of his speaking time. This is a fairy tale, Mr. Principal! You must have read too many fairy tales, but you have not said anything about economic and employment policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why was there this topic of the current hour through the FPÖ? – If you have looked at the newspaper reports in the last days and weeks, you could read – I am very glad that this is the case – that the FPÖ is back in the place it belongs to, namely on the third, and that it has been overtaken by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a fairy tale!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yesterday in the "Time in Picture 2" and in today's newspapers, we learned that there have been disputes for days. The FPÖ Partyman, who is unfortunately absent, probably has to do with the young tiresome lions... – He is not responsible! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where's the chancellor?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is climate?]] That is why the Minister is here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is likely that Haider will have to bring the young tireless lions to the Raeson. You have become nervous, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] So now you're making a little panic again, now you're making a distraction maneuver. The facts. Mr. Haupt has argued with figures here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're going to be laughing in Graz.]] – I know you’re nervous! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It's understandable you're nervous! If you have such media coverage as you have in recent weeks, this is of course a reason to be nervous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You certainly don't make us nervous!]] At least listen! Now come the facts, and they can turn and turn as you want: Austria, compared with all European countries, has the second lowest unemployment rate, the lowest unemployment rate among young people aged 15 to 24, the lowest proportion of long-term unemployed, the second highest employment rate, and we hold second place in full-time equity. Even the "patternland Holland", which is always set as an example, is not as good as we are in many things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] And where, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, do you think this is coming from? – This good position of Austria is not due to urgent requests, not through current hours, but through the work of this Federal Government, my dear friends [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government is working for jobs. They, on the other hand, argue and ask only urgent questions. They're trying to panic at the people in our country. European development and national development cannot be separated – that is the answer to Mr Prinzhorn – and therefore our government has become active at both levels. It was our federal government that has enforced it at European level that we are at all discussing work and employment within the EU and are ready to take action. You know very well that one of the EU's last employment summits has been to decide or enforce national employment programmes. The Minister for Social Affairs will present this national employment programme to the House in a few weeks' time – Mrs Prammer has said it in good time for the Minister for Social Affairs – and thus to the public, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Increase in salary only for union members!]] This too is an old hat! You just need to read that; that does not correspond to the facts! But I'm glad you gave me this keyword: There is no such agreement, and that has never happened in practice. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Come on! Come on! Come on!]] We have not practised this so far, and we will not practice it in the future, ladies and gentlemen, too. Another focus: What do you think about why Austria has the lowest youth unemployment rate in the EU? Do you believe that this has come by itself? – No, this is the result of the Federal Chancellor’s initiative together with all members of the Federal Government. I just remember the last apprenticeship initiative. I admit that some have torpeded a little, but if there were no such initiative, the situation would certainly be even worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to use this opportunity to get a few sentences to the address...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5904	No, please only the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5920	Mr President. Then I come to my conclusion. The economy can think of what I said anyway. With these proposals, which we have heard of you recently from FPÖ, we will certainly not solve the problem. Their proposals were: Degradation of the number of holidays, sick, vacation – you know what I mean. My final sentence, Mr President. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I am convinced that this government will present an employment programme which will continue to guarantee that in Austria we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5968	I have a word for business treatment. Please, Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e5989	Mr President. Mr Nürnberger has just said, in his speaking time, that dealing with employment policy in Austria and, in particular, with the high unemployment problem, is a key issue. I note that neither the head – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – nor the competent minister of the department is there, but that on this important issue the woman minister was introduced to us. I therefore request that the Federal Chancellor appear in the House and appoint, on behalf of my group, in accordance with § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which the National Council may require the presence of members of the Federal Government at any time and without any reason, the request made by Mr Bundeskanzler to appear before the House. I would ask you, Mr President, to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6034	At the beginning of the meeting, I announced the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, according to which the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs today by Mrs Mag. Prammer is represented. That is to say, the Ministry of Social Affairs is in conformity with the constitution. The request for the German Chancellor's membership is admissible; I will vote on it. Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Kostelka for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6063	Mr President. I just wanted to say what you already made clear: According to the Constitution, Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer is currently acting Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, and with this is the competent member of the department, the responsible head of the department within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure here. Another person cannot represent the resort at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6091	We are voting on Mr Stadler's request that the National Council call for the presence of Mr Bundeskanzler. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not even the sharks agree!]] The application is therefore rejected. We continue in the speaker list. Mr Deputies is very stupid to speak. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6145	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it has been possible in the previous debate to overlook the nervousness of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I can understand this: a party observer who is not motivated, according to today's daily newspaper, to make it clear that there is no time to devote himself to this issue here in Parliament – such a group must be nervous, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another comment: I have been following the policy of the liberals very closely lately. I can only say: It is a good thing for job security and employment in Austria that this party has no government responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This policy has three characteristics: first black painting, second zigzag course and third uncertainty. And that is exactly what we cannot need in terms of the economy and jobs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think I have often proved from this speaker's mouth that I do not see things through the pink glasses. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well, please, take it off today! Take off those pink glasses!]] I have also repeatedly spoken critically. I'd like to admit: Of course, we also have weaknesses in the local policy, which is not a question at all. For example: too much bureaucracy, too high energy and telecommunications costs, lack of flexibility in the labour market. I would like to admit that we also have a wealth of demands from the red tape to the fight against undeclared work, from the strengthening of research funding to greater flexibility. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You've been in government for 12 years! Would you have changed it? You're in the government!]] We have a wealth of demands – but we must not explore reality, ladies and gentlemen! The reality is that we have excellent location quality in Austria, and companies that can prove themselves on the international market. I also mention the performance of our industry in export – every second job in Austria depends more or less on export! – not least thanks to this government policy. In the first nine months of the previous year, exports increased by 16 percent, exports to North America increased by 28 percent, exports to South America increased by 48 percent, exports to Eastern Europe increased by 38 percent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why does the Madethaner say something else?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: All Paletteti! All palettes!]] This is the current account, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we have to prove ourselves! Every second job in Austria depends on export. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Bravo"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can still manipulate so much with numbers, but one cannot deny: [[Rejoicing and intervening among the liberals]] According to EU statistics, we have a balance sheet that looks like this: Firstly, Luxembourg is the lowest unemployment, which is recognised across the EU; we are second best in the small country of Luxembourg. As Mr Nürnberger has already said, we have the lowest youth unemployment in the EU. Last year, a trend change was achieved – 7 percent more new teaching contracts. Austria took the first place in the previous year at the Profession olympiade. That means that we are both quantitative and qualitative in terms of youth employment... – you are operationally blind on one eye, dear colleague! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Leave the incense boiler in the canister!]] You're operationally blind! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't pray the economy healthyly – no question at all! – but you cannot be sickened either, Mr. Colleague! But you're always just kidding her! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, all of this is not just the merit of the government. The government and we can only set conditions. It is the merit of tens of thousands of skilled entrepreneurs and their employees. Don't be sorry about this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With your argument, you are weakening the performance of our entrepreneurs, our businesses and many tens of thousands of employees. This is your policy of sick-jammering, black painting – and therefore also the condition in which you are currently in. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Günter! Why didn't you prepare today? You should have prepared yourself! That's where the Nuremberger was better prepared!]] Now the uncertainty you are doing has caught up with your own party. This is probably the fair consequence of your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6320	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6341	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Stummvoll has found a metaphor here. He said it was a lucky thing that the liberals did not bear any government responsibility, but I ask: Is it a good thing that ÖVP and SPÖ are responsible for government? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes! For the success of Austria yes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You have not consciously declared that this is a happiness, because you do not believe it yourself. You, Mr President, have drawn a lot of pictures, but you yourself have acted as a soft-drawer. That the situation is as good as you describe it, you can only believe that if you make court reports. Believe me! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: No, no, Mr Kier, that's not true!]] Only you can believe that, because the economic data are not quite as bad as some say, but we do not have a reason to be unconditionally optimistic. The mood in the farms, Mr President, is much worse than you think. If it is good, then it is not because the people are happy about the government, but because the entrepreneurs are stupid, Mr. Colleague, and because, despite this policy of optimism, it is not yet entirely strangled. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] That's why the mood is sometimes good. But because of government policy, the mood is certainly not good, because you have produced so much chaos in recent months, such as in the framework of the contract regulations, such chaos that even one day seminars do not enable people to know what is actually happening. And the local health phone also do not know, in consequence, that, but must take weeks to respond to legitimate requests from possibly compulsory insured persons. What that means for the mood, you know. The mood is very important. We Liberals, too, do not believe that it is good to be sick. But that does not mean that one can no longer express criticism. There are many shortcomings that the government has to answer: In the area of flexibility of working hours, in the area of additional wage costs, you have failed a lot and have not done so. On the contrary: They have created new additional wage costs. The question is therefore: How has the government affected the phenomenon of unemployment: positive or negative?, not as easy to answer as you do here. Government policy has not removed all obstacles so that the labour markets can develop – at most a few but at the same time new ones, Mr. Collegue stupid! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not everyone! Okay! Not everyone!]] That's the tragedy, because apparently the compromise you need to close always looks like this: On the one hand, we are making a reform, on the other hand we are taking a step back! So you stay on the square, and that's not enough. Even in the so-called "pension reform" you have apparently not considered the effects on old-age unemployment at all. We have always strongly criticized the fact that we have a system in which you hide the age unemployment in the early pensioners. Now don't hide them so much, but you didn't care about the problem of old age unemployment at all! On the contrary: They have introduced a strange bonus malus system that has resulted – and will continue to result – in the fact that older employees are only quite pushed out of the work process; older women at all, because due to the asymmetry in the retirement age and because of the award-making process – as it makes sense in your bonus malus system – the effect is to cancel older women and hire older men for it. I mean, that's not a good performance. At the end of my considerations: Mr President, I should just like to address you, Mr President, because I hope that you will take up some of it. I do not address Mr Khol in this case because the working world is not his. More must be done in the direction of opening up opportunities instead of hindering them. In that respect, although I understand a member of a government party, if he is now pleased with the miscarriage of the liberals, I only want to focus on the fact that someone else is bad, it is too little for a government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6423	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6445	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to see this debate on unemployment, which was demanded by the liberals, as well as the head of the Party, which has referred to unemployment as the most important, more important than anything else in this country, and at least also mentioning it, if this issue is already the most important in this country! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I mean, it's the most important issue in this country. However, I would also like the government to deal with this issue a little differently than it did. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why does the Van der Bellen not speak? Where's the van der Bellen? Where's the van der Bellen?]] It's not enough just to make ourselves up here and say that we're excellent anyway. I recall that it was the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – still in his capacity as Minister of Finance at the time – who said: For 1997 we are planning an unemployment rate of 6.8 per cent, and we hope that this worst-case scenario, that is the worst case, will not be achieved by 7 per cent unemployment. – We had 7.1 percent, ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to have rising unemployment numbers in the future. That is why it is also time to speak on this subject. It is not enough, Mr President, if you say: We have great export rates to South America, to North America, an increase of 20.30 percent. – Yes, yes, but what do the unemployed have of it in this country?- Oh, my God! What do they have of it when export rates rise? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You should also take this increase, which is a welcome increase for the economy, ladies and gentlemen, to think about this economic order. What an economic order do we have, where 20 to 30 percent growth rates can be achieved in an important economic segment on one hand, but on the other hand, unemployment does not decrease, but – on the contrary! – is being increased? It was not a Green, nor a Social-Democrat, but the German vice-chairman of the Christian Democratic Party, Heiner Geißler, who said it was a perverse economic order when the groups made profits and at the same time put thousands of people on the streets. – And this also concerns Austria, ladies and gentlemen! You should therefore take this debate on the occasion to reflect on this economic order too. Because we can't make it that easy and talk about it only by saying: If we twist a little instrument, a little wheel somewhere, it'll get better again. If we keep going down the wages, it'll get better again. – These recipes from the past, from the conservative moth box, have not yielded anything! If you take this matter seriously, Mr Khol, then let those words of your party friend, you have something to do with them. However, I would also like to talk about the specific facts in this debate. In concrete terms, the Federal Government and the government representatives have given the impression in this debate that it is still largely all the best; we are on the best track. The Federal Government is talking about the employment rate – yes, it is very high – but it is not so much talking about the unemployment rate, which is also low – I admit – but in Austria as one of the few European countries is rising. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not at all calm down that you say: However, we intend to make an employment programme!, but we are concerned when I read that the Ministry of Social Affairs reports on this unemployment situation in January that the curve up has been somewhat flatter. – But the curve is still going up. That's disturbing. The Federal Government is talking about a trend change towards full employment. This has not yet been achieved. On the contrary: The trend changeover is not marked at any point. The Federal Government is talking about the measures it has taken in the field of active labour market policy. However, she does not talk about – and you, Mrs Minister, do not do so – the fact that labour market services have reduced a large number of labour market policies, that they are the losers in particular. You know this, Mrs Frauenminister, because in Upper Austria in particular, a number of projects are affected. You also know, Mrs Frauenminister, even though you have made quite euphoric reports on the adoption of the Federal Minister of Childcare concerning Mrs Hostash, that this is far from all right that a decree cannot, of course, correct the law that there would be something to do, even in the specific case,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6490	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6506	... for which the Federal Government – I am already at the conclusion, Mr President – is obviously unable and unwilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6536	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6557	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you motivated, Mr. Gaugg? Are you motivated today?]] I have always thought that Mr Oellinger is an opposition politician. I am glad that he notices the absence of our Federal Party officer Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Wabl: Ah, isn't he here?]] Mr Oellinger is degrading himself to a coalition in this Republic if he finds it disturbing that Federal Party Minister Dr. Haider is not present, who is trying to create new jobs even in Carinthia, which is why he is on the road, and if he does not think that it is Federal Chancellor Mag. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] Climate is not worth the effort to be present here even in a very important debate. [[Abg. Wabl: He's worried about the job of Grasser!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are thus seamlessly enrolled in the famous four-bands in this Republic. The media's defence is certainly this Federal Government. Many are wondering what this government has earned this grant. For many, it's a mystery. Only because a State Secretary travels to the south, to an Islamic country, is it said that we are again important internationally. There has long been no such thing as the visit of the Secretary of State in Algeria. Nevertheless, you are protected, and the essential issues of this Republic are treated as marginal issues, both as regards your political action and as regards the media. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Workplace for Grassers!]] In reality, this government is the largest producer of early pensioners, the largest producer of unemployment, the largest producer of poverty for those who today live in poverty despite work. But all of you don't care; it's funny for you. For you, it seems to be funny that there are over 300 000 Austrian citizens who would like to work but do not get a job because you are running a missing policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They set up an apprenticeship emergency program – failed, completely failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] More than 1 billion Schilling – according to a very obscene response from the Federal Minister for Social Affairs – is available for apprentice employment in the labour market service. The fact is that nearly as many apprentices as in the previous year are looking for apprenticeships. Now I ask you: What kind of economy is that? – The fact that the ÖVP has managed is nothing new. There is a bit of talk by the chambermen, but you are not interested in the free economy. The fact is, there is a serious failure. Where are all the teaching places? – The final sentence of the Federal Minister was: The commitment to make at least one training offer for each youth could be given because the Federal Government knew the performance of the services of the labour market service and the capacity of schools and therefore knew that such a commitment was realistic. – Now it is said that 7 000 pupils have been sent to school as apprentices, and still 2 500 apprenticeships are missing. That's what I'm asking: Where is your employment initiative? The superiority of the two government parties in this Republic – with the help of two opposition parties – has become unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This superiority, ladies and gentlemen, will fall on your head the next time you vote. I'll tell you: Many here of the two government parties also suffer from loss of reality. Because if you believe that you can get rid of all problems by not discussing, be fooled! I repeat: The question of work and employment for Austrian citizens is a key issue for us liberals, and this will remain the main issue! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the second half of 1998, you will be able to lead the EU Presidency to court and head days as long as you want: We will give you daily Keep in mind your failures in employment policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6684	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6705	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As to the call for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, I would just like to say: We have clear competences. Only the "F" seems to be omnipresent and responsible for everything. I believe that Mr Gaugg, when he says that Dr. Haider has safe jobs in Carinthia – yes, his own as a country captain’s candidate – and then you have to start something with the remaining Mr Grasser. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The liberals always pretend that there was only unemployment in Austria, as if we had been shot off. Unemployment rates are being prayed down, but of course there is nothing to be said about numbers of employees; that is quite clear. For us, unemployment always has a very bitter side-effect, and we are very much trying to free people from it. When we prepare programmes year by year, the reason for this is quite clear: because there are always changed framework conditions to be met by political responsibility. We Social Democrats have declared 1998 the year of work at our club meeting. That's not a negative thing. I know you from the liberals celebrated an imaginary hero who was greeted with standing ovations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Creating framework conditions is good and beautiful, and policy is called on to do so. However, it is always tried to interrupt them. Today it has been said that the women's desire has not been fulfilled in any way. What, then, is the scheme of minor employees? It has come to my attention that companies, if they have several minor employees, try again: The small employees are housed in a subsidiary. They work in the same area, but then both the company and the subsidiary have a small employee, and you can save yourself the service providers' contributions. – That’s not how it can be, so you constantly interrupt it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: such a nonsense!]] It must be ensured that – and there is a demand for the social partners – this ruin will be stopped! What about black-and-collar work, where revenues of 250 billion schilling are estimated? What about the apprentices who are not recruited because they are waiting until there is a promotion? What about companies that can be promoted and subsequently distribute essential parts of their business abroad? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am asking Mr Prinzhorn how many people he has released. What is – how can you read newspaper reports – if companies lose the shyness of sending stamps to employees for a week or 14 days, because the order situation has suffered short notices? – Remedial action can only be achieved through cooperation between the economy and workers! Because at the latest when you come to the point that you can't eat money, it's too late! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I must be very surprised by Mr Prinzhorn, who here in the House - I think it was in October - has made everything that the economy is getting ready and said that only the numbers of employees are voting in Austria. He said something else today! – They obviously work in the direction that you think, people threatened by unemployment are willing to come down to a policy that is precipitated to them and which is ultimately a bubble of soap! We will not allow this to happen by the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. That is what I am telling you in all clarity! [[Abg. Haigermoser: What are you so excited about? You should get some air so the head isn't so red!]] I have enough air, Mr Haigermoser, but you seem to be going out of the air after the cleanup action your party observer threatened you! That's why you're so nervous today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should get some air!]] [[Abg. Eder shall submit a written paper to the speaker.]] Now I've got the article. Mr Prinzhorn said: The only programme of the Federal Government, which really takes action, is the employment offensive. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] – Today he has said something else, but the policy of the liberals is to say three quarters of twelve something different than half one; we know that anyway! Live from the liberals your frustration about the withdrawal of the "Kronen Zeitung" elsewhere! At the moment, "F" is just for frustration!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6820	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6850	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, Member of the Commission, did not bring a good gag when he said, Mr Haider, Federal Party Minister of the FPÖ, provided employment assistance and helped the unemployed in Carinthia. - Nobody believes that today. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] On the contrary: Maybe Dr. Haider is looking for work in Carinthia to secure a place there. I'd rather believe that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problems of the liberals do not concern us today, but there is indeed a problem, and this could be solved in 1997 in part but not completely, namely the employment problem. There is no doubt that Austria has good economic data – that is right – and there has been an expansion of exports. There is otherwise good economic data, but the implementation of these economic data into employment policy has not yet been fully successful. There are problems with older unemployed people, problems with the return of women to work. In this respect, the Federal Government or our representatives of the National Council have set up important initiatives. I would just like to mention two: the special integration aid, which has allowed emergency aid recipients, if they get a job, to take it on for more than 12 months, if they have received a job. This is an important measure, but I believe that this measure is still too limited. The same is true with the help and measures for reintegration, for the re-entry of women who have left their working life. These measures are also too few. We have therefore dealt very closely with questions of an employment and apprenticeship offensive at yesterday's club meeting. We believe that further impetus should be given in 1998, particularly in the field of apprentices. In this context, I call the first point that we have long called for, namely the introduction of a level teaching for apprentices, ladies and gentlemen. It is very important that those young people who do not have the necessary qualifications for full education should also be offered the opportunity of training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We believe that this is a very important point for the year 1998 that we have to implement. Second point: We do not think that the correct emphasis has been placed on the promotion of apprentices in recent years, because: Those establishments that have still recruited apprentices at the end of the autumn have received a promotion. On the other hand, those companies that had created good training opportunities from the outset have not received this support! That's a problem. We therefore propose by the EIA in a very concrete way – and we have decided unanimously yesterday – that the first year of teaching be promoted in the way that, instead of promoting the professional schooling day so far, funding is financed from labour market funding. This is a very important call for the attractiveness of teaching to be further enhanced, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second important point: There should be no additional financial means, but an improvement of the conditions for apprenticeship training and for apprenticeship training itself. Third important point, ladies and gentlemen – and that is what I am saying: Elimination of bureaucracy, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. We could imagine from the EIA that apprentices do not have to be included in certain compulsory numbers, for example in the production of economic statistics. I could also imagine that apprentices are not included in the law on the recruitment of disabled persons. It must not happen that an apprentice is not being employed because the number of duties would exceed. That would be a measure to remove obstacles. However, I am particularly concerned about the removal of bureaucracy, and in this context I am referring to the Workers' Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In January 1999, the Workers' Protection Act will also take effect for small businesses with less than 50 employees. In 1998, the bureaucracy for these establishments must be facilitated and eliminated. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are very concrete proposals drawn up yesterday by the EIA. We believe that these proposals must be implemented jointly in 1998,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6928	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6943	... to be able to address shortcomings that still exist in the field of labour market policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6973	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e6995	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, first to you: I do not think it is sufficient to see the choice of this topic of the present hour by the liberals only in the fact that this is about the uncertainty of the workers. – People actually feel insecurity; that is not said! People are confronted with this uncertainty in the labour market every day. The statistics and figures of the last social report speak a very clear language. At any rate, the responsible parties and the government have not succeeded in creating the right framework – despite numerous promises and announcements. In particular, it has not succeeded in making the labour costs of the entrepreneur, for the entrepreneur, in times of increased competition more manageable. Women are particularly affected, even if you have today tried to present the situation of women as particularly favourable. You know that the unemployment rate in women tends to increase more strongly, and you know, of course, that women are more affected by unemployment. And what I think is particularly worrying is the fact that a third of all unemployed women are already long-term unemployed. The problem of reintegration is a well-known difficult one. In this connection, I am not yet talking about the dark figure of minor employees, of those dark figures of women who no longer apply for employment at the AMS office, because they have already resigned, because the conditions do not ensure a compatibility of work and childcare at all. Mrs Reitsamer! I must contradict you: Social security for minorly employed women has not been resolved in the last so-called reform package. There was the voluntary possibility of a security. However, this does not bring women out of the range of allowances for women. As long as you are not prepared to discuss independent social security for each woman in the context of an insurance obligation, we will not continue on this issue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The removal of the failure of the Federal Government is required by 650 000 men and women who have signed the women's desire. In view of the regrets expressed by Mr President-in-Office of the Council that no point would have been implemented, I must say that I have to keep up with the following: The reason why we have not yet gone further on this issue lies also in the very close closeness between your group and the EIA, because ideological barriers affect the implementation, yes, a serious discussion at all, unfortunately very negative. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is an understatement!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There was no decision yet!]] In the area of constitutional protection, you, Mrs Fekter, and your colleagues in the political groups have made a very clear statement. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] What I still miss – and this is also a call for women’s popular desire – is a real qualification offensive. Education discrimination in women is alarmingly high. Significantly more women than men have only one compulsory schooling, so unemployment is particularly at risk. Personally, it would have been preferable for the Minister of Education not to announce 99 points for the promotion of girls and women. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's good – and that bothers you!]] Announcing five points and implementing a single one would have been much better served for girls and women in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Of course, there were still many points to cut. Only so much: When Mr Colleague speaks boldly of a zigzag course of the FPÖ, I give him the right, but he may reconsider his own zigzag course in the matter of worker protection law and contract regulations, for these were those areas that are not actually work-promoting and in addition make the way into a new independence clearly difficult. But it is precisely these laws that my colleague has boldly – despite other public statements! - carried here in this house. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There would be a lot to say about the apprenticeship package. The last reform package was at least a flop. There is no way to buy courses without the next school leavers and school leavers getting the invoice presented. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. If I present to the Federal Government and to the other parties represented here in this House a gross failure, it is that they are not prepared to come closer to our proposal for an appropriate basic guarantee and to think about it. Here we can discuss what we want: Achieving full employment for all will probably also be illusion in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7117	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7138	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is remarkable from the Austrian People's Party that on all current topics the first speech by the speakers of the industry and the economy, not by the social experts or on agricultural animal husbandry issues, seems to be given by the agricultural experts, but first of all by Madethaner and dumber everywhere, with clear demands, Mrs Fekter, social and environmental degradation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because the jobs are worth us! Economy means creating jobs! Only the economy can create jobs!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This shows very strongly where the former People's Party has developed, namely to become a lobbyist party for very short-sighted industrial concerns. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The unemployment rate in Austria is said to be more than 7 percent, according to the paper. That's too much. However, this is just the statistical statement on the paper. I would have expected Mrs Prammer to say a few words about the power of these statistics. There has once again been a question by the Minister for Social Affairs, Hesoun, who admitted that at the time at least 50 000 women could not find a job because of lack of or insufficient childcare facilities. Very many women cannot take up a job either because public transport offers, train and bus connections do not take account of the employment opportunities for women and do not take into account child care opportunities at all. And these women, Mrs Federal Minister, are no longer going to the employment office, who are no longer reporting themselves as seeking work. These twenty thousand Austrian women no longer appear in the statistics. Why should they go to work? – You know that for the following reasons it is not possible: The kindergarten locks up too late, too early or has lunch break. There is no suitable train or bus connection. These women are no longer mentioned in the statistics. This is a form of hidden unemployment, which is very, very high in Austria. This is also the case in international comparison for a developed industrial country which is very low in female employment. Also graduates, students, university graduates: They no longer go to the employment office, because getting negative information every day is no longer reasonable to these people. Therefore, Mrs Bundesminister: Please be a little more honest in terms of unemployment and statistics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point, close-up. The Socialist Group has also agreed to a model of so-called flexibilization of working hours, which has actually only benefited the large shopping centres. For the small tradesmen – and I miss the call of the ÖVP – that did not do anything. Look Once again on Saturday afternoon, where demand really pulsates and where emptiness prevails! This has gone out on the back – once again – of women, which has cost jobs for small traders and on the other hand Social hardness brought to the large workplaces. Thirdly, and in my opinion, the most important point: the tax system. The Federal Chamber of Commerce can still use so many detectives against black workers – of course, the breakage of social laws cannot be tolerated – but they have to ask themselves the question, why unemployment is formally exploding. Mrs Reitsamer also spoke of a 250 billion Schilling thing. Since even more detectives, even more control to demand even more police, is the wrong way. We need a different tax system!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7201	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7216	We need to drastically reduce the burden on labour production factor and carefully build up eco-taxes – without additional burden on the economy and households. Without this changeover, any debate on unemployment is hypothetical.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7249	The current hour is over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7271	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7605	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for a written request from the honourable Member to be sent to the agenda before receiving it. Dr. Petrovic and comrades to the Federal Chancellor regarding the implementation of the demands of genetic engineering, women's and animal protection people's desire to be treated urgently. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as the request is sufficiently supported, the urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3220/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7631	I would also like to say that I have the desire for § 92 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 3220/AB by Mrs Lacner and others on military division, namely the new structure of the German Federal Minister for Defence. As the debate on the urgent question has just been scheduled for today's sitting, this debate will be held following the debate on the urgent question. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7656	We are now going into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of today's debates as follows: A day block time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the report of the Federal Government (III-97 of the Supplements) on the situation of Austrian agriculture 1996 pursuant to Section 9 of the Agricultural Act 1992 (Green Report 1996) (969 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 360/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on the withdrawal of the ÖPUL entry stop (970 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 411/A (E) by Mr Robert Wenitschund Comrades on the calculation of winter rapes as a greening measure for the stabilisation of fruit succession (971 of the supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 455/A by Mrs Ing. Mathias Reichholdand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Forestry Act 1975, BGBl. No. 440, as last amended by BGBl. No. 970/1993, amended again (Forstgesetz-Novelle 1997) (972 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on amendment 471/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning a federal law with which the Weingesetz 1985, BGBl. No. 444, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. No. 583/1995, amended (973 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7756	This brings us to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no proposal for oral reporting on one of these proposals. That is why we are going into the debate at once. First speaker is Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayr. I am told that a 9 minute speaking time will be desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7789	Mr President. Federal Minister! "What kind of agriculture do we want?" – You, Mr. Federal Minister, asked this question several times in the "To the cause" mission, in which genetic engineering was discussed. Now I have a question to ask you, Minister of State: Who do you mean "we"? Are your "we" just the EIA politicians or the other political groups? If you answer this question with a yes, it is time for you to change the usual procedure in the Committee on Agriculture and Parliament, because everything that does not come from the ÖVP, which does not come from you or from your ministry, from the Farmers' Federation, the Chamber of Agriculture or from Raiffeisen, will not even be ignored. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Requests of the liberals are left untreated until they have started Patina, and they are then simply voted down after a short alibi treatment. So far, the question of what kind of agricultural policy we want has been answered only by the EIA – with the well-known results, which are to be read year after year in the Green Report that we are going to discuss today. Mr Bundesminister, the Green Report 1996 confirms a 7 per cent reduction in agricultural income per farm and 8,000 jobs less than in the previous year. You want to sell us this result as a success story, according to the motto: It could have been even worse. If you address your question as to what kind of agricultural policy we want to address to the farmers, it is high time that you gave them the opportunity to answer. But instead, the Chamber of Agriculture is carrying out so-called original elections in which farmers are asked whether they want the Chamber or not. The farmers, Mr Minister, above all want to have an agricultural policy and a Minister of Agriculture, whose word, Mr Bundesminister, they can rely on. [[Federal Minister Mag. ==References====External links== Dr. Krammer.]] [[Abg. Madl: He doesn't listen!]] Mrs Colleague, could you please hold these talks after the debate? - Thank you many times. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer's away from the government bank.]] Federal Minister! Farmers want to keep a minister who has given promises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, you want to pursue agricultural policy. However, the single party's agricultural policy in this House is indispensable. Promises are not met and contracts are broken. This policy leads to income loss and the loss of thousands of jobs – and year after year. If, however, you ask consumers, Mr. Federal Minister, what kind of agricultural policy is wanted, then the answer is yes: With 1.2 million signatures under genetic engineering and hundreds of thousands of signatures against animal transport, consumers and the population have given you a clear signal. Minister! It should only take these signatures seriously. They did not need to ask any more, but they would only have to implement the will of the people at last. The Austrian farmers have always fought for their freedom. Our ancestors did not rarely pay for their lives. But somehow this policy manages again and again to force the farmers under the guise. Originally good ideas are wronged or misused at all. For example, Raiffeisen can prove this observation shiny. What happened to the thought of Raiffeisen? – Raiffeisen is only a bank, a group, with millions of guests and contracts for the managers – but the concerns of the farmers have for a long time been no matter to these gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The profits of Raiffeisen, which have been generated by agriculture, have never benefited farmers. These profits were invested in completely non-sectoral areas: in participations, in hotel chains, in insurance companies, in factories, often abroad or in publishing houses, such as in the "Kurier", which has now also blown to the large FPÖ-Hatz, while the farmers have remained only non-indebted, non-valued shares, but with a multiple liability. The farmers were well deserved, Mr. Federal Minister. However, they became less and less and more indebted, while the Raiffeisen Group became richer and richer. Through and, above all, EU membership of Austria operated by Raiffeisen, a new burden slavery has caused Austria's farmers. The farmers' torture tools are today called bureaucrats. The bureaucrats that the farmers manage will become more and more in this country, for this the farmers will become less and less. The 1998 agricultural budget says everything: 3 billion schilling less for the farmers, but 57 additional officials in your ministry. Federal Minister Molterer! They agreed to the new EU cattle identification regulation. The result: Become in Upper Austria alone 23 new persons will be recruited in the district farmer's chambers in order to be able to deal with this nonsense at all. Are these the jobs you have promised us to join the EU? We liberals demand an agricultural policy, which ensures jobs at farms and not at the desks, Mr Minister. Or the "Folder instrument" AMA: [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This authority has even been elevated to the constitutional rank, not agriculture to this day. We liberals call for a constitutional safeguarding of agricultural incomes at last. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You always promise it before the elections, Mr. Minister. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] With the AMA a device was built that is absolutely not necessary to this extent. For what, Mr. Federal Minister, do you have the many officials in your ministry? According to a study, management per holding costs 26 000 p.a. However, there are some 75 000 farms that receive only 22 000 s of compensation. You have to imagine that! The management of these establishments costs much more than those farms receive compensation. This is white nonsense, Minister of State! Stop it at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] No farmer can understand what really happens with the marketing contributions. It's just opaque what's happening. They apply to your ministry with full-page involvements in the illustrations. Federal Minister! They agree to any disadvantage for farmers: in the social security sector, in the fee sector, in all areas. They promise, but they do not respect them: for example, in the VAT system, for example in the case of the granting of operating funds. They sign contracts and break them unilaterally, such as in the public service programme. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: At Genmais too!]] And now you still go here and stand for the Easter enlargement. ==References== All agriculture ministers voted in favour of Agenda 2000 with the exception of Spain. You know, Minister, what Agenda 2000 means for Austrian farmers: Loss of income of up to 30 percent, without compensation, because the money is not there! If the Spanish Minister of Agriculture has voted against Agenda 2000, he will have had good reasons for this, Mr Federal Minister, but I tell you that you would have had much better, because Austria with its long eastern border is directly affected. It is really a scandal to use which methods the population is being brought to light! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You vote in favour of Easter enlargement, you vote in favour of Agenda 2000, which makes Mr. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel the same, climate is also for Easter enlargement and Agenda 2000, but your party colleagues, head of state Pröll, or your brother, Vice-President Kletzmayr in Upper Austria, or the head of state of Burgenland say: No, we're against Easter enlargement, so it's not coming! Stop this unworthy game at last! The Austrian farmers have not deserved this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7906	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e7928	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr! I have already wondered when studying the list of speakers, why the agricultural speaker of the FPÖ, the Ing. In this debate, Reichhold is not present at all and does not mention it, although the Green Report always makes fundamental statements on agricultural policy. [[Abg. Aumayr: Because he's sick and in the hospital!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's sick! He's in the hospital!]] Obviously he is already so badly motivated that he so to speak prefers absence here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's the bottom load! There's someone in the hospital, and you say he's not motivated! That's really bottom drawer!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] A second area: We are also dealing with three requests from the Liberal Party today, and I say briefly why these requests have not been approved by the Committee. The first request requires that the entry stop for ÖPUL be lifted. We have a public service programme in 1998, which is a new entry or a breach from 1995 to 1998, which has already abolished the entry stop. The second request is to include the winter raps in the greening measure. For winter raps there is an own area premium. For this reason, the EU has refused to approve a second premium for winter greening. [[Abg. Wenitsch: For everything else there is also a premium!]] The third request would have affected essential agendas of the hunting laws which are in national competence. We would have needed a constitutional amendment to include the hunting laws in the Forestry Act. And without negotiations with the countries, such requests are non-democratic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: (in the way of the Free!) Shame!]] Today we are dealing with the report by the Federal Government on the situation of Austrian agriculture. In some cases, the results of some 2,400 accounting companies are added to the national accounts. This results in a decline in value added in agriculture and forestry from 61.9 billion schilling to 61.2 billion schilling in 1996. In addition to this decline, however, degressive payments were reduced in 1996, resulting in a loss of income for agriculture, which is higher than the loss from reduced value added. In 1996, the farmers also made much more investment. The degree of investment is always a measure of what future hopes the farmers have. Whoever invests tries to be competitive even in the future. In 1996, almost a third more tractors were newly approved, 18 percent more were invested in construction measures and 29 percent more for machinery. These strong investments, of course, reduce agricultural income, because income is the difference between income and expenditure. The remaining part is then the income. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] In 1996, the farms and cattle farmers also had to deal with the consequences of BSE from England. Consumer confidence has also been shaken in our country. Of course, the decline in beef consumption has had a disastrous impact on the price situation in the bovine sector. In addition, in 1996, the price decline in round or cutting wood in Europe was the result of the 1995 Lira devaluation, which particularly affected Austria, which is particularly concentrated on Italy when it comes to wood exports. That is why we have to draw conclusions from these figures in the 1996 report. We have framework conditions to improve farmers' incomes in the future. What conditions do we need? – We need increased consumer confidence in domestic food. It is also necessary, Mrs Aumayr, to mark cattle, because consumers demand to know which farm or region the cattle come from, so that they can have confidence in beef again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This cattle identification, which is introduced for the farmers in 1998, allows for the entry into force of an exact meat identification from the year 2000 – one and a half to two years old, before it is ready for slaughter and then into the food sector – so that it can be established in the supermarket for each meat piece, where for example this animal is born, where it has been reared, where it has been slaughtered. This truly complete presentation is intended to help restore confidence. A second measure is sustainability in agriculture. We have increased environmental support with the 1998 OPUL programme. Austria is a European champion here. Around 10 percent of our farmers are organic farmers, and about half of European organic farmers live in Austria. This also corresponds to our programme for environmentally sound agriculture. For example, we will be able to achieve much more than the larger France or much more than the larger Germany for Austrian farmers, and this environmental programme, ÖPUL 1998, will also bring a significant improvement for green farmers. Another priority must be the introduction of a base amount for farmers in mountain areas and less favoured regions, in order to enable small farmers and auxiliary farmers to survive. For maintaining infrastructure in a region also depends on how many farmers there continue to operate a farm. We currently have around 250 000 farms in Austria. In comparison, there are only more than 80 000 businesses in Switzerland. Although Switzerland has only one million fewer inhabitants than Austria, we have three times as many farms as Switzerland! A further hard point in the negotiations will have to remain the VAT accounting for flat-rate holdings, just as it is enshrined in the Europe Agreement, because the price decline... [[Abg. Aumayr: When do you finally do it?]] Yes, Mrs Aumayr, we must convince the government partner. [[Abg. Aumayr: 3.6 billion! It's about 3.6 billion!]] You can also see a coalition like a marriage, like two spouses. [[Abg. Aumayr: Do it at last! Keep what you promise!]] There are also no side jumps allowed – at least according to our understanding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You are a unity party anyway!]] In order to secure jobs in agriculture in the future, however, we also have to add substantial additions to the proposals currently in place in the Agenda 2000 discussion. We want to ensure the multifunctional tasks of European agriculture beyond the next WTO negotiations, we want the sustainability of agriculture, because our successors will assess how we leave the livelihoods behind and we need a continuation of the milk market regulation even after the year 2000, so that milk production in the mountain areas can also be ensured through national and single farm quotas for the future. [[Abg. Aumayr: You won't do that again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need further improvement in the production of mastrins with the integration of female mastrins into the premium scheme and a safeguarding of agricultural structural support in the re-regulation of the target areas. If we can enforce this in Agenda 2000, Austrian agriculture will be guaranteed in the form of farmed family farms and a comprehensive agricultural production in Austria. Finally, I would like to thank the 2 400 farmers, who are taking on a substantial amount of additional work with the record so that the processing of the accounts results can determine the situation of Austrian agriculture. I would also like to thank the staff in the ministry who evaluate these figures, because the 1996 Green Report is an extensive reference work, which also shows many comparisons with other European countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8134	Mr Mag. Stadler wanted an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8158	Mr President. High house! In its indolent form, Mr Schwarzenberger has made the claim that the Reichhold Member is missing in the debate on the 1996 Green Report for political reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Well, well!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, I didn't say that!]] This is wrong. Mr Reichhold is missing from this debate because he is currently in the hospital because of a serious operation. The claim, therefore, is a blatant personal statement, as it, by the way, had to endure the family of parliamentarian Reichhold from you on the occasion of the last election of the Chamber. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's it!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8273	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think we should take this point to the occasion of a debate. I wish Mr Reichhold all the best and that he should come out of the hospital soon. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8300	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report, Mr Schwarzenberger, is indeed a very large numbering, and it has been put into figures in particular what is so much left of the policy of the coalition parties. However, you will understand, Mr Schwarzenberger, that the Liberals have a different interpretation of these figures than you have put them here, because, for example, if you say that the increase in investment is a sign that there is a positive basic mood in the rural population, I would like to argue, because rising investment in particular in the agricultural sector does not necessarily mean confidence in the future, but can simply mean that capital intensive agriculture is increasing in Austria, that it is increasingly heading towards industrialized agriculture, that the use of machinery is simply increasing. In parallel to this, of course, exactly that trend has not been broken, which has also been identified for years in the Green Report: that at the same time jobs in the agricultural sector are lost. That is to say, the increase in the investments you have mentioned are more than a sign that the Liberals are moving towards industrialized agriculture and that we will not be faced with a long-term rural structure in Austria. We do not believe that the counter-tax measures imposed by the Federal Government and also the coalition parties are sufficient. Take just about that part that deals with the renewable raw materials. It is said everywhere, particularly in connection with energy policy, but also with the creation of jobs in rural areas, that renewable raw materials, such as energy supply, are needed to increase their use. However, a recommendation from the § 7 Commission in the direction that renewable energy sources should be excluded from the electricity tax has not yet been implemented by the Federal Government. And if we look at the negotiations for the Energy Organisation or Energy Economics Act, which is already in place in the draft, there will also be no exception to renewable energy sources from the electricity levy. This is a reason why this area cannot develop, and that is why increasing capital intensity will not result in more jobs being created in the field of agriculture. But you are also right, Mr Schwarzenberger, if you say that there must be a change in the field of social security. I heard something like that sounding. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the Liberals have been very strongly criticized because they propose to choose a new approach in the field of social security and to consider whether it would be useful to introduce a basic guarantee for individual sectors. It is interesting that the Liberals have been very, very strongly criticised by the EIA, but you too are talking about the EDP, that there must be a base amount on which farmers can build that they are supposed to have such a fixed income that they can expect – whether they are good or bad, or whether only the general market conditions are such that they cannot make up for it. They are right to say that if we want to prevent migration from the rural area, then a base amount must be available. The liberals call it a financial "basic" in their concept, and the liberals are talking about "basic security". But, ladies and gentlemen, we have never put ourselves together at a table in this House and once reviewed the extent to which these individual proposals, which the Liberals have admittedly made for a larger area, but which also apply to agriculture, do not have parallels that can be implemented between the political groups. I think this is a debate that needs to be considered. I also claim, however, that Ladies and gentlemen, you differ where you want to be innovative, in your approaches not from the Liberals, and therefore you should not defame us if we are talking about basic security. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The most politically moving aspect of agriculture will also be genetic engineering in 1998. If there are any changes to the criteria in the field of public funding, it would be useful to consider more stringent criteria here, which are also going in the direction of saying that public funding is granted only where genetic engineering is not used in agriculture. To act in this way is not anti-technical, but the following consideration is given: If one wants to maintain a farm-structured agriculture, it can necessarily only be a farm which is not particularly industrial. However, genetic engineering in agriculture is part of industrial agriculture, it is a measure of industrial production. Therefore, the support system should be directed towards promoting only those measures which, for example, go towards organic farming, only measures that really serve a land-based agricultural sector. If such considerations were to be addressed, I know that from Mr Wabl's point of view, it would be agreed by the Liberals to include such criteria in public funding. [[Demonstratative appeal to the Greens as well as congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Interestingly, Mr Schwarzenberger and also Mrs Aumayr have failed to address the very important part of the Green Report, on which there is also a resolution by the National Council, namely on the subject of the position of women. No one needs to be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that, although women in agriculture – as this report shows – are overburdened in their share of labour, it is interesting to see their share of the decisions taken in the farm – not because they are not capable of making decisions, but because they are not allowed to do so – is still very small. This is in the report at the top right on page 163. It also says that a partnership marriage in the field of agriculture is something women can only dream of. Because there is no such thing there. It is true that, of course, women have to do housework and do all the work that is traditionally associated with the image of women. In addition, they have a general burden on farm labour, but equality in this area has simply been pursued. This has not yet been achieved, and therefore it must not be surprising that the field of agriculture is generally characterised by a high degree of ageing of the professionals there and that, in addition, the level of education – as this report says – is a low level. For every woman who can somehow make this possible naturally takes a different career course from that of working in agriculture. If one wants to maintain a farm-structured agriculture, then one will have to take measures to better cover the field of training and to lift the social image, especially of women. Otherwise, this area – in the truest sense of the word – will simply dry up. There will be a highly industrialized, capital intensive agriculture, and a farm-structured agriculture will be something we may demand, but that will certainly not be lived. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it should also be pointed out that the insurance coverage of this area, also especially for women, is bad. But if that is the case, then there is another reason – including with regard to pension provision in the agricultural field – to think about whether a basic guarantee would not be the right way to ensure, regardless of whether over a corresponding number of years has been paid, that men and women working in this field have adequate care at the age. The basic guarantee would be a way of bringing this about, so that I would like to repeat my request to discuss it in this House. If you look at the increase in funding, in particular from the Federal Republic of Germany, you will realize that the income per family labour force is expected to be above all farms, even if it is correct that there are differences in each case - in 1996 there is a minus compared to 1995 and this minus could not even be offset by the higher increase in federal funds. If there are no fundamental changes, especially in the area of social protection, then, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government will not succeed – and nobody else in Austria – in maintaining a farm-structured agriculture. We need real reform. But this is something that has so far been missed by the Liberals in this Federal Government in this area. The last point I would like to make concerns a request from me concerning the wine law. That is why we have proposed an amendment to ensure that this law is in accordance with the European rules with regard to the Uhudler, Mr Wabl. Unfortunately, this has been rejected in committee. Perhaps there will be an opportunity later to take this measure in order to comply with EU rules in this area, even if this seems to be less meaningful for the Federal Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8352	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8395	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my speech, I would like to deal mainly with the Green Report. Ladies and gentlemen will later take advantage of the opportunity to respond to the other proposals which are still under discussion. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to say a word of thanks to the accountants and institutions who have collected and provided the data of this report. Above all, I would like to thank the officials of your department, Mr Federal Minister, who have prepared and compiled this data in a truly excellent way, so that the Green Report 1996 – as well as the previous reports – represents an informative collection of official data, in particular the year two after accession to the EU. Thank you for that! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the overall economic review of the Green Report, we can draw up some details on EU and WTO and GATT provisions and situations, which are particularly important in terms of the Agenda 2000. The report contains data on the environmental situation in relation to the environment – agriculture, in which we find market analyses on the individual sectors and a presentation of the situation in the water industry. Above all, this report, which I would particularly like to focus on, includes the evaluation of the results of the accounting companies. This evaluation shows a very different picture of the income situation in Austrian agriculture. In recent weeks and months, we have been given a dramatic picture of the income situation in Austrian agriculture from press releases, but also in various discussions by some, because income has fallen in many areas of the agricultural sector. I would like to relativize this image a little, namely that in my view, the consideration of a single year does not have the power to express itself, which would be necessary to carry out an assessment, but rather a multi-annual period of consideration. When I refer to the period from 1993 to 1996, there is a very different picture, which is quite different from other sectors of activity. In view of the change in the income situation between 1993 and 1996, a total income increase of 30 per cent in the Federal Fund, and that is a very positive effect of the agricultural policy in Austria, contrary to what Mr Barmüller said earlier. However, even considering long-term income trends, there are very high differences between groups and regions. For example, an income increase of 49 percent in the north-eastern lowlands and hills shows. Ladies and gentlemen! These figures support and demonstrate the importance of the demand of the Social Democratic Party for a more just distribution of income in agriculture. This would be carried out by social staggering, by means of base amounts and by collecting ceilings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the difference between the income situation is also remarkable in terms of bio-economic and other holdings. In my view, it is very often argued that there are higher incomes due to public subsidies in organic farms and that a better income situation can be presented in this area. [[Abg. Wabl: How do you stand about genetic technology in agriculture, Mr. Farm Spokesman?]] Instead, I believe that these organic farms can achieve higher incomes or have a better income situation due to their much lower business costs and better use of their resources. Furthermore, the organic sector of Austrian agriculture offers many opportunities, as is shown by its structure in international comparison. ==References====External links== January 1998 under the heading "More money for Salzburg's farmers" - I quote: "Salzburg's organic farmers can cheer... Good demand has given farmers a better income. The biomilk supplement could be significantly increased in the Alpenmilch Salzburg. In the middle of last year, 19 bulkes plus VAT were paid, and in November it was already 47 groschen plus VAT." – End of the quote. I think that is proof that we need to introduce greater support in this bio-sector. In my opinion, a further step towards improving the income situation would be to improve the advice of farmers with regard to the use of forestry. In addition, an attempt should be made to reach a wooded cluster for Austria as a wooded country, as it exists in the automotive industry, in order to improve the income situation and the economic situation as well. [[Abg. Wabl: Without energy tax, the price of wood remains in the basement!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that we are still standing on our demands. There is a great deal of agreement here in the House on the base amounts. We continue to support ceilings, and I would ask you, Minister of State, to express them accordingly at European level. As I had the opportunity to hear positive signals from other Member States in the context of an EU conference, I am convinced that this call would be feasible. I also agree with Mr Barmüller that genetic engineering is a particularly important point in this area, because it is one of the most important improvements in the field of public transport. We Socialists thank you once again for drawing up this report. We will agree with him and look forward to the forthcoming negotiations and discussions due to this data situation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8460	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr deputies, you have indicated a voluntary time limit of 12 minutes. [[Abg. Wabl: That can't be! It's normal!]] All right, I'll set the clock to 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one hears the speech of my colleague Mr Farmers' speaker from the SPÖ, one could believe that the SPÖ is located in Austria on the painful opposition bank. It has very solid ideas about Austrian agriculture, but the Federal Government, in particular the competent Federal Minister, must ask for a fair distribution of income in the agricultural sector, in particular where degressive compensatory payments are concerned, and take account of the great disparities in incomes. Mr Gradwelt! Keep You continue to sit on the opposition bank and continue to address your request to your colleagues on the government bank! [[Abg. We are working to implement this, Mr Wabl!]] Mr Gradwelt! I can observe today – together with Mr Barmüller – how you see the use of genetic technology in agriculture. I believe that in this respect you are perfectly in agreement with your Minister, Mr Prammer, and therefore believe that genetic engineering in agriculture has not lost anything. That is why you will certainly agree with the request we will make later. Ladies and gentlemen! The annual report reflects essentially a trend in agriculture which we have been able to pursue for more than a decade, namely a steady decline in jobs in agriculture. Between 8 000 and 10 000 jobs are lost annually in agriculture. If this is calculated to a high degree over the past 11 years, some 100 000 jobs have been lost in the field of agriculture. I would like to tell you that you should not grieve every job, regardless of the area in which it is lost. But if jobs on which something useful is produced are lost when jobs on which healthy food is produced are lost by dirty competition, by industrialization, which does not understand rationalization as a reasonable improvement of economic processes, but sees it as a destruction of labour and corporate structures that are exclusively in the interests of maximizing profits and increasing the profits of shares, then we are determined that such jobs will be ruined! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For what is often understood – including in the field of agriculture – by structural adjustment and rationalization, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with real cleansing and rationalization! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to dirty jobs where people get sick, where they get diseases such as cross pain and any other damage, it is of course right that we rationalise and buy machines, Mr Schwarzenberger! However, if rationalization leads to hundreds of thousands of pigs in some large industrial halls not having to take animal health and not humane measures and to nuisance consumers with these products, then this is absolutely unacceptable and has nothing to do with sound structural adjustment measures. That is exactly what Maderthaner now – as a new agricultural spokesman for the ÖVP – is clearly calling for: the increase of animal stock limits. Ladies and gentlemen! What a great cry from the ÖVP was this when then Minister of Agriculture Riegler said: It's a milestone! We see the ecological boundaries in the animal sector – in the animal mast and in animal breeding – and therefore demand a clear limitation of animal stocks! – Yes, of course, that had a rational reason and was rational, because too high stocks increase the pressure of disease and lead to the mass use of drugs. Too high stocks no longer allow farmers, but only people who remove the dirt that clears the dead animals, as well as only physicians who come with medicines and ensure that the animals do not end. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it's all about. This is not only a European issue, but also a global one. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Why Take You don't mean the word? Mr Schwarzenberger! I am, of course, very pleased when you come here and say that you are in favour of sustainable agriculture. I have been able to listen several times in the Bonn Bundestag, as the debates have gone on. In comparison, I think that the Austrian debates are much higher in terms of quality and are much further in the ecological field, including yours, Mr Schwarzenberger. But you must recognize in connection with animal transport that any subsidisation is harmful to our farmers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For what you are doing in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, this favour and subsidisation of animal transport, of course, improves the chances of those mass animal husbandry in Europe that flood the markets with huge quantities and, with cheap food, cause people to eat unhealthy food. In this respect, you are working against the interests of your own farmers. I'm just wondering, Minister of State: Where does the WTO remain the argument of unfair competition? Why is there suddenly being subsidized, a product that obviously cannot be sold anymore? Why are animal transport subsidized against animal welfare, against small-structured agriculture, against organic farming and against a reasonable transport policy? Why will your voice, Mr Federal Minister, or your voice, Mr Schwarzenberger, not belong to the WTO? What reason did you give when we requested appropriate support here? – You kept saying: This is not possible because international agreements within the WTO prevent us from granting such aid. We have called for important measures to preserve ecological conditions in Austria at transitional stages, and you have said that: Unfortunately, I can't. But why don't you act vehemently in the WTO and say: This is distortion of competition!? – This is the ruin of ecologisation, which has so far taken place in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer commented in one of his last issues on genetic engineering. He said in it: We want to have this discussion at a more rational level! Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – Is it irrational when scientists warn that the control that plants and animals are genetically modified, hereditary substances are removed from species and transferred to other areas is not guaranteed? How, then, do you want to secure the existence of a organic farmer if a farmer is also working with genetically modified seed, especially since scientists have proved quite precisely and precisely that the transfer of genetically modified plants to organic plants is of course – which is proven to be – taking place? How can this be done if it is no longer preventable, Mr Molterer? What's irrational about that? That people then also put their feelings at risk and say: We are powerless in a democracy in which 1 200,000 people have signed in a democratic process and in which the leaders are still enslaving themselves like a snake through the whole of the penitentiary! There must be feelings in the game! This is not irrational, but people have learned with their minds that the rulers no longer shoulder their responsibility. This is the problem we have here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! You say in your broadcast that this black and white vision is not reasonable. – What does "black and white vision" mean? Have you heard a critic of genetic technology who said that genetic technology is the devil in itself, is something bad in itself? - No! It was very differentiated and said: In medicine it can be useful, and it is also useful in certain areas! Yes, of course, it must also be discussed, there must also be strict conditions and consideration must also be given to whether it does not turn against humans and against nature. Federal Minister! Who do you think black and white painting is? Your group? The Greens? The Liberals? The Social Democrats? The farmers who fear that they will no longer arrive with their products? Federal Minister! They say that in the field of medicine this is undisputed positive. – It’s not undisputedly positive either! There are areas where there is undisputed positive, but there are also areas about which it is very likely that the ethical boundaries would be exceeded, since the dangers are much greater than the benefits, therefore they would be rejected. Now, Mr Federal Minister, we should also have a debate in agriculture, in which it is decided on a case-by-case basis. ==References====External links== January 1998, it says literally: "It would be right from his point of view to decide on the agriculture of 'case-to-case'." Federal Minister! We have been discussing the use of genetic engineering for more than ten years. You may remember that a hormone was produced in Austria. In Austria, genetic technology has been discussed for a long time. There are dozens of publications about this. This was discussed in detail in Austria in the last decade. A stage of this discussion process – which was partly unscathed, but which was of course also conducted objectively, was also discussed sufficiently by scientists and the population – is the genetic engineering popular desire with 1.2 million signatures. This is a clear democratic decision-making process that has been completed by now – except for new facts. Federal Minister! If you mentioned a discussion in which it is said: We will have seeds in the future, which against all the "evil" pests – which must be taken into account, which is an ecological understanding – that against all diseases that are resistant to all mushrooms, we can produce plants that meet these conditions through the genetic technology, and thus the hunger of this earth will be ended!, then we could discuss it. Nevertheless, I would like to take into account the fact that there is a very specific natural concept behind it, as if quite certain areas would be hidden in the ecological interplay. In my opinion, the problem of genetic technology is the huge acceleration effect that we are starting processes that we can no longer take back. I believe that it is also a problem in the field of computer technology when faster and faster, ever better computers are created, with which people can hardly start anything. Only: In this case one can simply remove the device, and the negative process, the negative development can still be reversed. But what are we doing in the area of animals? What do we do in the area of plants when plants suddenly prevail and pass on their genetic information – for example on viruses, on pathogens that are more aggressive than all that has been done so far? Who is responsible for this? Then who pays for it? Who is then liable for this: Is that you, or is this Mr. Maderthaner, or is that Mrs. Rauch-Kallat? – This is the problem in genetic technology and in agriculture! We no longer have control over it, and we can no longer make these processes and developments reversible. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the genetic engineering people's desire, there was a democratic discussion process, Mr. Federal Minister, with all his shadows and with all his sun sides, which was rational and irrational, emotional and unfeeling. – The opposite of emotional is unfeeling, Mr Federal Minister, and not rational, for one understands with the mind what one feels about it. – This is the difference in a consistent policy, Mr Federal Minister, and you should make a clear statement today. Ladies and gentlemen! I am right for Mr Schwarzenberger, when he says that we will again be able to obtain sufficient tax resources at public level in 1998 for a reasonable use in the field of ecology. But what prevents Austria from saying: We link the use of genetic engineering with the demand that those farmers, those industrial sectors that use genetic technology, should not be promoted from these means of taxation? – This is a democratic process, Minister of State! Why can't you agree to this request? – Because of new scientific findings, it can be seen that this is not as dangerous as the opponents always claim to create a new situation. Then we could discuss the new situation and come to a new conclusion. But now, Mr Federal Minister, this is not the case, and I am therefore seeking to give you and, above all, my colleagues, Gradwelt and also the members of the ÖVP, to support our motion for a resolution, to give him your approval. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Is this illegal, Mr Federal Minister, in connection with a democratic process in Austria in which 1.2 million people have spoken against the use of genetic technology in agriculture? Is that unfair? Is that politically incorrect? Is that irrational, Mr. Federal Minister? Is this black and white painting? Or is this the legitimate claim of a population that still means that everything goes right from the people? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8578	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. [[Abg. Auer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 8 minutes!]] Eight? [[Abg. Auer: Yes!]] All right, then I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8626	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even today, the usual ritual was again noted: The government praises, and the opposition criticizes. [[Abg. Wabl: You criticize the government and praise the opposition!]] I think we should finally say goodbye to this procedure. Then: Neither one nor the other is 100% correct. Mrs Aumayr! You said that there should be an opportunity for farmers to answer the question, "What agriculture do we want?", which the Federal Minister has submitted on Sunday in the mission "To cause" could answer. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been done by farmers in the agricultural chamber elections in the country elections. [[Abg. Aumayr: (the hands collapsing) In Upper Austria?]] If I look at the reaction of your chief Haider and only 50 percent of what is being reported in the media, I must say that he was absolutely dissatisfied with your harvest, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Where did Landesrat Hofinger come from?]] This is particularly remarkable: Mrs Aumayr has been pouring Mr Hofinger for years, and today she regrets his departure. This is hypocrisy par excellence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Where did he come from?]] Another hypocrisy, my colleague, Aumayr, is the critical comment on the new labelling of cattle. [[Abg. Aumayr: To the bureaucracy!]] Even in the agricultural programmes of the liberals, it is clear that: "Clarification of agricultural products produced by environmentally friendly farming methods and animal-friendly forms of farming." Further: "As a brand is a guarantee of quality, the conditions of production must be clearly defined." – Nothing else we did! [[Abg. Aumayr: You have two brands: left and right!]] Next point: It was also bitterly complained, Mrs Aumayr, that there would have been an unnecessary original vote on the continuation of the Chambers. Who for years has called for a democratic question to be asked at last, because we obviously do not need it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I understand the fact that you do not match the result. This was a clear commitment by the peasantry to our organization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Aumayr.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In one case, I am quite right for my colleague, Mr Gradwelt, in what he said about the forestry industry. However, I would ask you to add something to it, namely that it would also be important for a functioning forestry industry to make the construction regulations wood-friendly, and that it would also be to be questioned whether it is correct that all heatings should be converted to fossil fuels. This would be very feasible in the case of renewable energies, especially in those areas, Mr Gradwelt, which you would otherwise represent very powerful and verbal. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 Green Report is a situation report. It is the balance sheet of a farm year, clearly presented and provided with extensive data and facts. This is to thank the establishments, the responsible officials, the responsible ones. However, it would be even better if the balance sheet of a farmer year could be presented and discussed here in the following year. But it is certainly worth noting – and this should also be noted – that the period between the publication and parliamentary treatment of the Green Report has been cut short compared to earlier times. Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few words on the situation in agriculture. The negative is the situation in the external agricultural trade – which is clearly said by a representative of the Government Party. Although exports have increased as a percentage – this is positive – but the difference between imports and exports from 2.5 percent has increased the agricultural external trade deficit to 19.3 billion schilling. That's very negative. Ladies and gentlemen! The result of the 1996 farm year is also negative. To this end, the Green Report notes: The weak result in 1996, and in particular the fall in agricultural incomes, was partly caused by special influences, but also by the systematic reduction of the degressive compensation payments, which could be said to have been known, but above all due to the high burden of the flat-rate holdings on turnover tax. There, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance and the Government are expressly calling for the promise given under the Europe Agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You're in government! But you have rejected the request made by the liberals! Vulnerability to the square!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will be difficult to cope with rising operating expenditure on agricultural and production incomes. The figure would be even more negative if there had not been a satisfactory outcome in the pig market in 1996, but it would have to be correct compared to 1995. While 1996 a plus of over 10 percent – thank God! In 1995, there was a 19.6 percent reduction in this area – and should be pointed out in this area. Unfortunately, the situation in this area is not particularly positive. Overall, the commitment of the Austrian farmers is positive, and the activity and work of our Minister for Agriculture Molterer is extremely positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no country in the EU which has such a high number of organic holdings and which has such a large quantity of withdrawal in the field of fertiliser consumption, which can therefore have more environmentally sound agriculture than Austria. All said: Agriculture is an important economic support for the construction industry, for the construction sector, thus securing thousands of jobs. Especially in difficult times, it should not be forgotten. Agriculture also secures business orders. Therefore, we should all strive to make a fair and future-proof income possible for agriculture as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8790	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Molterer reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e8812	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you may be surprised that the Minister of Agriculture is not satisfied with the income development of 1996. But if a minus is given in the event of income development, it cannot be satisfied. What I am looking for, ladies and gentlemen, is a differentiated assessment of the Green Report and also the causes of this income development. It is also the other side of the medal, namely that we are dealing with agriculture and forestry with a sector which is taking a very dynamic development, especially in these months and during this time, for example as regards investment. Mr Barmüller! I am also on this issue for differentiation in the discussion. I do not say that any investment that is made is business wise. However, your argument would lead to the conclusion that you consider only an investment-free agriculture to be a reasonable one, but I do not assume that you are of this opinion. In my opinion, it is a sign of a sector's desire to live, of the future belief of a sector when investment is made accordingly, and, also, the Green Report points out, if the migration in the field of agriculture, which has been criticized by FPÖ over many years, has become less in the last two years than it has been in the past. I am in favour of a very unemotional and rational assessment of this sector. From my point of view, it is necessary to put additional impulses in this area. However, it is by no means as sometimes meant by a political debate that this sector is in the dead end. Ask the farmers, especially the young, who look to the future and actually make the right decisions – namely, the right businessman to make! Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly right that we need additional impulses. These are also set by the Federal Government. I am thinking, for example, of the important environmental programme ÖPUL 98, which is now being offered to farmers. It sets out priorities that are necessary, such as additional measures in the field of green agriculture, because we have real income problems in this sector due to the development in the dairy market or also in the beef market. If farmers participate in this programme, additional funds will be available from 300 to 400 million schilling in the Greenland area. This environmental programme makes it possible indirectly that the entry stop will no longer work, because those farmers who have not participated in the ÖPUL 95 can also participate in the ÖPUL 98. It is an environmental programme, ladies and gentlemen, which ultimately creates additional ecologicalisation, and – which is also very important – it is an environmental programme, which is also being used more and more regionally. I think that this is wise, as in the Salzburg decision, where regionalisation is desirable due to the specific situation in the lake area and then enforced in the EU, or in the Styria, where the environmental programme is responding to the specific situation in the areas at risk of groundwater. This is an environmental programme that will be a real perspective in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The environmental programme, which will play an important role in the future in the European debate – I am coming to speak shortly after – will also need discussions for the next step of development. There will also be a discussion on the issue of the relationship between the environment programme and genetic technology in the preparation of the next environmental programme. One question, however, concerns me, and I say this very openly: It is certainly an incentive, as we give it in the field of organic farming, but vice versa, so to speak, when it comes to large-scale exclusion, I am extremely skeptical because, in the end, the risk would lie with farmers. I wonder at all whether a large part of the discussion is being conducted in such a way that it should not be conducted at all, i.e. on measures and practices which would actually reduce the risk of the weakest link in the chain. For this I am not to have, but for a reasonable discussion. – I am still referring to this issue, also in relation to the environment. It is necessary to ensure the financial framework for this rural agriculture. The 1998 and 1999 budgets, and in particular the 40 billion package agreed between the Federal Government and countries, are the guarantee of the financial framework for the future development of this sector. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will also set the necessary priorities, for example in the area of mining promotion, compensation allowance, for which about 3 billion shillings are spent. Mr Barmüller! The fund in the area of biomass, Mr Bartenstein and I have also been set up is also an essential step towards creating additional impulses, which are also used, and are being used offensively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Further examples of these priorities are the investment promotion in the individual farms, the road construction in the rural area, where new projects can be included, the sector plan for the development of the processing industry, for which about 1.8 billion schilling has been spent in the sense of a stronger and improved competitive position, or the many hundreds – more or less – 5b projects that bring impetus to the regions, impulses between agriculture, tourism and gastronomy, where rural areas actually show clear desire to live. We are now in a future discussion on the development of European agriculture. I understand, of course, that there are also critical votes on this Agenda 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious that it has been hidden to some that I too have critically expressed myself on this agenda and on many key points of the agenda, and still do so. [[Abg. Aumayr: You have agreed!]] [[Abg. Blue fog!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: No, my colleague.]] – Mrs Aumayr! I'll tell you what we've done. Obviously you have read the wrong paper. What it is all about is that this November decision has succeeded something I am proud of, Mrs Aumayr. The Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union have made a political decision on the political framework in which they present themselves as the reform of agricultural policy and what this political framework is. What we have actually decided is the political objective of Europe to maintain and secure an independent European model of agriculture in the future. [[Abg. Aumayr: With massive cuts!]] Four key points have been agreed, Mrs Aumayr, and if you have something against these cornerstones, you say so. Corner point 1: We want sustainable agriculture in the future. – Are you against sustainability? Corner point 2: We want to have a comprehensive agriculture in the future, both in the favors and in the disfavors. – Are you opposed to a comprehensive agriculture? Corner point 3: In the future, we want to have a multifunctional agriculture that fulfils all functions, not only the production function, but also the protection of the environment. – Are you opposed to multifunctional agriculture? Corner point 4: We want to have a competitive agriculture in the future, which can also exist in competition on the market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Are you also opposed to competitive agriculture? – I do not believe that because of your previous discussion. That is what we have decided: the perspective for this reform. The task ahead of us is to bring the reform forward precisely on the basis of these key points in order to guide it in the right direction. What does the schedule look like? – At the end of March, the European Commission will present six proposals for market reform: milk, cereals, cattle, wine, olives and tobacco. It will also present proposals for structural and regional policies and for the so-called horizontal measures. What is our position, for example, on the financial framework mentioned in the agenda? – I think this is reasonable because this will also safeguard the agricultural guideline for the next period. The proposals for rural policy, for structural policy, are very interesting for us, because the whole rural area is practically a support scene, but we are not satisfied with the proposals presented in the field of market regulations. We also know that there are critical comments on the milk market, the cereals market and the beef market. We want to achieve improvements in these areas together. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr! It is clear that the European Union will only remain a peace project if Europe commits itself to enlargement for candidate countries. In view of the political debate which is currently taking place in Europe – I am telling you this very openly – I think it is almost peaceful to show those countries the cold shoulder that sees in the European Union the peace and security perspective for their people and, ultimately, for our fellow citizens. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who shows the cold shoulder, Mr. Minister?! That's a premise!]] I would therefore like to make it quite clear that Europe needs to grow if States are to join. However, I also recognise that the enlargement of the European Union must be feasible for the Austrian population and for the population in the countries willing to expand. [[Abg. Aumayr: Austria must finance this! Austria must pay for this! Figures must be the Austrians!]] As you know, the Austrian Federal Government has developed a programme – and will introduce it to the European Union – of how we can actually make impulses in the area of border regions, and how we can solve the problems that enlargement can do, for example, through gradual processes. [[New call of the abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs Aumayr! Obviously, I discuss with Franz Fischler a little more often than you. It may also be that I am perhaps a little preferable to Franz Fischler as a discussion partner. It is quite possible that this is the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs Aumayr! They also know that Austria and the European Union are in favour of accession only if these countries fulfil the conditions, for example in the field of quality standards, phytosanitary standards, veterinary standards, because the issue of consumer safety is an important issue. And you also know that the gradual process and the investment impulses I want to set in Austria will increase the competitiveness of Austrian agriculture in such a way that, in the end, the question of enlargement of Austria is also a viable project, which is also feasible for farmers – a project on which the Austrian Federal Government is very well aware. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: EU accession will force you to do so!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this European reform discussion, Austria will, as before, set the appropriate impulses and also make changes, for example in the development of the environmental programme. The environmental programme will become a central pillar of EU agricultural policy by means of an accompanying measure. We discussed yesterday the first report on environmental programmes in the Council of Agriculture Ministers. This report fills me with pride, and I am very, very grateful to the Austrian farmers, because Austria is number one in the European Union as far as the environmental programme is concerned! In absolute terms, Austria has spent more on this environmental programme than the great nations France or Germany. Not only do we have a relative nose, but we are absolutely leading, and we want to maintain this role as an environmental leader in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will be committed to an offensive policy in rural regions, especially those rural regions that need better conditions, for example in the area of infrastructure or technology, not only for farmers but for all those in the economy. We will also work to improve the mining sector, such as the base amount scheme. As perhaps the first step in this direction, the European Commission has failed to say no more at all to a base amount, although it has not yet said that the base amount is co-financed by the Union. [[Abg. Wabl: Is Fischler so incomprehensible?- Oh, my God!]] That will be our next task. Of course we are fighting for it! We will also take action to ensure that the issue of bioenergy, renewable raw materials, not only becomes an Austrian subject but also a European strategic issue. We will also take action to improve the issue of marketing as an important cornerstone of a farm strategy for the future. And we will try to ensure that our specific Austrian points, such as the question of milk quotas or the question of cattle farming, are properly improved in the market regulations proposals and brought to the conclusion that we are presenting ourselves. This is my political task, which I, together with colleagues in the Federal Government and, I hope, also see as a task for Europe with the support of this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Allow me also an open word on the very current discussion on genetic engineering. I never made a secret out of my position, so I didn't have to change it by 180 degrees in one direction or another. What is my personal background? . As a Member of this House, I have participated in the parliamentary committee on genetic engineering and also in the preparation of the Genetic Engineering Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in constant memory of this work in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, because in an admittedly emotional way – which must not be bad at all, if it is not a one-way road – it has always raised the following two principles: firstly, in the sense of carefully weighing the opportunities and risks, the benefits and costs, to consider whether a development in a specific case is positive or not positive, and secondly, to note that a decision has to be taken step by step. I consider these two principles to be infinitely important, because without their application, if the discussion had finally been led only towards yes or no, the positive aspects – for example in the medical field – would not have been taken into consideration. The proponents of popular desire themselves say that, for example, the demand for a "gentech-free zone of Austria" is not realistic. Whoever reads today's newspapers can read that even proponents of popular desire say that one should not conduct this discussion black and white in the sense of a yes-no discussion. That's why I'm trying. In this debate, which is important for Austria, I am trying to raise the precautionary principle – that is no question at all – that we take time to improve the legal framework, for example the question of liability in the genetic engineering law, but that we also say clearly: We do not want to conclude a development that may offer opportunities for this country and for the people of that country. This is my position on this question, and I think it is quite correct and reasonable – even in view of the current discussion, in which one side clearly says no and the other side indiscriminately says yes. Both are not reasonable. Reasonable is the position that allows for development according to the precautionary principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9014	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9039	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you have made a number of statements here, some examples of what you are going to do. I ask you, however, in what form you will do that. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the voting behaviour of the ÖVP delegates in the Euratom question or in patenting for life, and I would remind you of the subsequent entry stop in the ÖPUL programme. Before, you were promised something else, namely that there would be no such entry stop, but that each farmer would at any time have the right to enter later. If I also remind you of the subsequent reduction in public funds guaranteed by the ÖVP and by you, Mr Minister, for five years, but were subsequently shortened, then you must not be surprised that you will not find faith in the farmers or the Austrian people today with your statements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer has come out of here and has vehemently requested that VAT or VAT compensation be imposed on flat-rate farmers. We liberals have already made such a request here in the House! [[Abg. Aumayr: Four times!]] And who rejected this request? – From the Social Democrats and the ÖVP! The Socialists are still out of this fight, but Mr Auer still has the forehead to get out of here and to feel sorry for the farmers he himself has led into this fatal situation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Auer has turned out here and has requested vehemently a discharge from farmers of certain social security charges. – This is incredible, ladies and gentlemen! The Lord She has decided to do it herself here in the House, and also in the Committee, against the votes and against the vehement resistance of the liberals. This is the EIA policy, a crash policy, as it is rarely found! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Mr Auer comes out here and speaks of the original vote to the chambers. He believes that the farmers would have committed themselves by a large majority to maintaining the chambers. – Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I have to ask you: What do Pröll, the Lower Austrian state government and the Lower Austrian Landtag do? – Although the farmers voted with Yes in the Chambers, Pröll and the ÖVP say no and lay the chambers together. This too is ÖVP policy in pure culture. Minister Molterer! You have said that you will vehemently support the fact that the EU's enlargement will not take place in the form of the European Commission's proposal. . However, I have here a different statement from the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament and may quote: "The Commission has a very simple hypothesis in building up its financial framework. As the funds cannot be increased, the necessary resources for the new projects must be made available through reforms of key sectors, such as structural and agricultural policy." – End of the quote. Minister! You go out here, tell the farmers your wishes, which I do not want to dispute at all, but the European Parliament, with the votes of the ÖVP MEPs, does exactly the opposite of what you are telling us here in the House. I think that's a really no longer portable state. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here in the High House, Mr Schwarzenberger, on the part of the ÖVP member, says that it is necessary to work for organic farmers and also for organic farming. Mr Schwarzenberger! I ask you: Why was the 1998 budget allocated to environmental measures compared with 1997? Can you explain to me why, in the 1998 budget, you have decided... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 300 to 400 million are spent on farmers in 1998!]] Yes, but there's a big minus in the expenditure for environmental measures. This shows how the use of the EIA for organic farming looks. Minister! As far as the Green Report is concerned, there is not much to say. A minus of income has come out for the farmers. The trade balance for Austrian agriculture is fatal and is getting worse. Since accession to the EU, the share of public funds in farmers' income has increased from 10 percent to 70 percent! That means to me, ladies and gentlemen, the farmers hang on a heart-lung machine, they are in an intensive care station. If the Doctor, in the case of Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger, pulls out the plug, the farmers are dead. So far you have brought our farmers, Minister. During your term of office, you have made the farmers more dependent than ever. We will not allow this to continue in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9113	I call Mr Wimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9135	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For three years now, Austrian agriculture has been claiming in the European Community. Of course, this step has led to a comprehensive adjustment process throughout the agricultural sector. But it is important that, as you can see, today we are moving more towards ecologicalisation, and at European level too, this path is becoming increasingly important and is finding more and more recognition. In the context of ecology, I would like to refer to a passage in the Green Report, where, with regard to our organic holdings, the following arguments are made: It is to be understood that organic farms can only keep up with traditional farms because they receive better funding. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! This statement is simply incorrect, it simply does not agree, because the share of public funds in organic holdings is hardly above the average of the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps still on the development of income, something that has also been mentioned today. After a very successful development in the last three years, the trend is more likely to move in a different direction today. If we are to face up to each other, it is necessary to consider the development over a longer period of time. However, there is nothing to be beautify, and it is also not a question of the fact that the income situation has worsened in 1996, with the mining industry in particular hit very hard. It can be said that businesses in less favoured areas have clearly come under the wheels. There's a sheer that's becoming a threat to existence. It must be said that the mining industry has never been spoiled particularly and that the access to support for farmers, especially for farmers in disadvantaged areas, is all the more difficult. However, I would like to add, fairly, that the 1998 OPUL programme will make little improvement in the support situation, especially in the area of green farmers, which will benefit more than before. I also believe that this is a very important step, but it will not be enough to solve the problem in the long term in order to ensure long-term management. That is why we are not going – you, Mr Federal Minister, have also mentioned this today – to provide basic protection in this area, especially for the development and implementation of our miners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also, of course, consider that the basic guarantee must be set aside, that conditions such as livestock farming, year-round farming must naturally be included. But in this whole causa we have a very important problem, the time factor. He plays an essential role here, and we're running out of time. That means we have to deal with it as soon as possible. We have been talking about this for a long time and thus enough. Maybe a few more facts that simply support the dramatic situation. The total number of enterprises has fallen by almost 7 percent in recent years, and it has not been large enterprises, large units, but mainly smaller areas. It was precisely those establishments that are clearly disadvantaged in the traditional support system. There's nothing better about the mining industry. There was also a sharp decline of almost 7 percent, with the main enterprises affected by almost one quarter. Additional image: Again, it is about those farms which are also clearly disadvantaged in the present system. A development, ladies and gentlemen, that we can no longer see. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have been talking about comprehensive management for a very long time, but it will not be possible if this development is not stopped. This means that we will have to change the environment very quickly with various structural measures in the field of support. Whether we're redistributing it, whether it's called social staggering or whether it's called modulation, it doesn't matter, so it doesn't matter at all, just we have to do it. But if it is not possible for our businesses, especially those in disadvantaged areas, to improve their support and give them a long-term chance to survive, we can say goodbye to this comprehensive management that we are working towards together. This would also mean that we are going beyond our objective with this agricultural policy, which would clearly have failed to achieve our objective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Social Democrats has already been addressed by colleagues Gradwelt. She was always clear and is still upright: We need a basic guarantee for our farmers, in which, in addition to the area, labour intensity is finally taken into account. However, it is also a question of imposing binding ceilings, i.e. a ceiling. We can't do it otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen! Only in this way will it be possible to actually implement the much-quoted comprehensive management. That is our common goal. We shall take note of this Green Report as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9204	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9225	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! The Green Report contains a detailed income analysis and shows a loss of income two years after EU accession. The causes are certainly the poor price situation as a result of the BSE crisis and the decline in degressive compensation payments. But it is precisely as a Tyrolean that I am concerned that the difference in income per family labour force in the mountain region and in the market fruit sector is blasphemous. Nevertheless, I would like to say to Mr Gradwelt: Agricultural support must not be a social benefit, but it is a payment of benefits which are not paid by the price. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Minister Molterer has responded to this situation with an improved public transport programme, namely the Public Health 1998. The protection of the environmental programme, in which around 70 percent of all farms, i.e. 180 000, participate, is a central element. There are massive impulses in the direction of ecology, landscape care, protection against natural hazards, biodiversity and healthy food. Furthermore, the key structural measures are, of course, direct payments in the mountain area and in other disadvantaged areas. It should be noted that this year the price of wood has improved after a few difficult years. It is also positive that farmers increasingly benefit from machine rings and operating aid rings. We need a base amount scheme for further safeguarding our businesses. It has been mentioned several times today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From a European point of view, we must work to increase the compensatory allowance for less favoured areas, because in Austria, almost 70 percent of the agricultural area falls into the category of less favoured areas in the EU. The EU average is 56 percent. That is why this is particularly important for Austria. The aim is also to improve cooperation with the economy in order to optimise the marketing of agricultural products. A major source of income is the rental of rooms in our federal state. I am very glad that the Minister for Economic Affairs has withdrawn this right of residence and that we can now continue to benefit from our apartments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, however, it is also important that it will continue to be possible to market raw milk directly in the future, and that the hygiene regulation has now become more reasonable. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Wonderful!]] If Austria will hold the EU Presidency in the second half of this year and the preparations for Agenda 2000 will be made here, I hope that it will succeed in drawing some of the teeth of Agenda 2000 and preventing the price level of Austrian farmers' products from being reduced to the world market price level with their strict and high standards. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Mrs. Colleague! Which area should be changed?]] Wait a bit! Agenda 2000 must become more rural, and it is of particular importance that the EU Council of Ministers should set the following objectives: multifunctional agriculture, sustainable economics, also in order to protect the environment, water and soil, to produce comprehensively, so that production does not depart from the mountain areas, and to strengthen competitiveness, always bearing in mind that as much of the income as possible must come from the proceeds of the products: Therefore, no further price cuts! I am particularly grateful to our Minister for his commitment to the EU Council of Ministers. These objectives bear his handwriting, and he may be proud of it. Part of this year's Green Report is devoted for the first time to the situation of the farmer. The results are from a 1996 representative survey. The farmers most appreciate in their profession that they can care for their children themselves and the nature alliance. They are very educational, which shows the number of participants in the events. I am particularly pleased that the Tyrolean farmers in particular have the highest satisfaction and that they will again take over more than 80 percent of the job. However, they need appropriate framework conditions. A good contribution is the operating aid weekly allowance, which was finally increased and valorized. Farmers shape society in rural areas by their commitment and their sense of responsibility. Young women want to become farmers today, but they must have about the same framework conditions as all other professional groups. We will continue to fight for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9302	Mr Koller has now come to speak. You have a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9324	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! The Green Report provides a detailed account of the economic and social situation of farmed family farms in Austria. The agricultural trade deficit has continued to rise since 1996. The total imports amounted to 47.3 billion schilling and total exports amounted to 28 billion. This increases by 2.5 percent compared to 1995. The second year after EU accession was characterised by significant income losses in the 1996 Green Report on the basis of 2 422 parade farms. The income from agriculture and forestry per family labour force fell by 4 per cent in 1996 compared with 1995, i.e. to 169 000 S, and that per farm by 7 per cent to 285 600 p. In the foreword of the Green Report, you say, Minister, Austria has managed well to join the EU. However, the agricultural trade balance and income situation do not justify your statements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Not even 15 percent of all farms reached an average income of a worker. Ladies and gentlemen! What does the §-7 Commission recommend? First, to protect rural families from further social burdens, second, to supplement the compensation provided for in Regulation 950/97 by introducing a base amount. - Bravo! The first step towards the implementation of the FPÖ agricultural programme! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you think about the Huber plan?]] Thirdly, this has already been mentioned several times today, increasing the flat-rate VAT rate for agricultural and forestry holdings from 10 to 12 percent. According to Wifo, in the case of VAT, farmers alone escaped 1.75 billion schilling in 1996. This injustice must be eliminated as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does the Presidential Conference say? – Your President, Comrade Schwarzböck, also shines by absence. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] But what does the Presidential Conference say now? – Those who support the incomes of structural change and the maintenance of a sufficient number of farms must consistently also support more funds in favour of agriculture and forestry. Inneragrarian restructurings are not solutions. – But reality proves that you, the farmers’ representatives from the ÖVP, have not complied with your own requirements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Experience after EU accession shows that agriculture and the downstream and downstream sector have to deal with profound structural changes. That is, the farmer's death continues. Agenda 2000 and enlargement are under way. Whether this will last our rural family farms, I question. That's why: Change your agricultural policy to give the rural families and young people prospects for the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9390	The next speaker is Mr Achs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9412	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The development of recent years makes clear the strong change in Austrian agriculture. Since the adoption of the common agricultural policy, the importance of direct payments for local farmers has increased enormously. The 1996 Green Report shows that of the 32 billion Schilling grants, almost 80 percent were paid directly to the Austrian farmers. This made it possible to achieve to a great extent the long-term demand of the SPÖ that the money be directly to the farmers. However, the high share of public funds in agricultural income also means that in no other economic area subsidies are as important as in agriculture. In the agricultural sector, therefore, particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the funds are distributed fairly and precisely and diverted in such a way that the commitment to a rural and small-structured agriculture is not a lip commitment. Our position on this question is clear, and I can only reaffirm it once again: Limits in support mean more money for the large majority of farmers in our country. In this context, it is gratifying that the European Commission has also set a clear signal in this direction in its Agenda 2000. It is hoped that the possibility of a fair promotion policy will be used at national level. This will be all the more necessary than a tense situation for the Union's agricultural budget with a view to enlargement of the EU. In the Commission's financial framework, almost ECU 19 billion from the agricultural budget will be allocated to the applicant countries for the period 2000 to 2006. It is not to be expected, however, that this amount will be achieved in the highly agriculturalized countries. Although Agenda 2000 contains some positive elements, it does not show long-term prospects. It is questionable whether, even after the accession of countries such as Hungary, Poland and Slovenia, to name just a few, the falling prices by direct payments can be offset in some way. This is why a rethinking of the common agricultural policy is essential, and it is essential to consider an overall approach to rural development. The principle of sustainability must continue to be the top priority, regardless of progressing liberalisation and also in the face of increased competition. In recent years, the Austrian farmers have proved that they have recognized the signs of time; they are only thinking of the environmental programme and the large number of organic farms. Ladies and gentlemen! We can also observe a positive development in the wine sector through the quality orientation of the local winegrowers. Finally, the commitment to the highest quality has led to the fact that many Austrian wine-growing companies in the first line are already among the world's leaders. Now it is also important to introduce the second-line farms to this area, because only by this can the added value and thus the income of the Austrian winegrowers be secured in the long term. [[Abg. Wenisch: Colleague! 60 percent cheap wines we currently have on the shelves!]] - I'll talk to you soon. The current situation shows, however, that after three weak years of homelessness Wine has become scarce and is thus increasingly suppressed by foreign competition in the cheap segment. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be wrong to close your eyes. These low wine harvests over the past three years have resulted in market share losses for Austrian winegrowers in trade. Cheap wines from Italy, Spain or Chile occupy their places. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria there is a lack of 700 000 hectolitres of wine. About 2.5 million hectolitres of wine are consumed annually. The wine harvest in 1997 was 1.8 million hectolitres; it has been the weakest wine harvest in the last ten years. The vacuum in the market is filled by imports. Foreign wines already dominate the shelves of supermarkets up to 55 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wenitsch! We must therefore necessarily develop new strategies on how lost market shares can be regained in the coming years. [[Abg. Vienna: Again!]] Marketing is mainly required here. It must be clearly stated that imported low-cost wines do not reach the quality of domestic wines and that the consumer makes an important contribution to a healthy economy with the purchase of Austrian wine. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has to be made even more clear than is expected to be more competitive with regard to the enlargement of the East. Not only in the wine sector, but also in the other areas of agriculture, we can only use the opportunities of the future if Austria continues to rely on its traditional strengths. Strengths such as quality and sustainability are the guarantee that Austrian agriculture will also face the new challenges of the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9469	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a few words to my previous speaker. In the wine sector too, the effects of a missing agricultural policy are evident. In fact, we have been shut down and shut down in recent years, leaving the market share to foreign countries. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that's why we have so much foreign cheap wine on our shelves, because we can't produce it ourselves anymore. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you think that's good if we produce the cheap wine?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed today's debate closely, it could be concluded by the statements of representatives of the government parties that in agriculture, in general, everything would be all right, it would be all right. Just, the reality, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Wifo and also according to this Green Report, look quite different. The accession of the EU and the adoption of the related common agricultural policy and the removal of restrictions on trade in agricultural products within the EU have led to profound changes in our agriculture. The agricultural producer prices for cereals, for slaughter cattle, for pigs, for milk have fallen enormously on the one hand, and on the other hand, the promised discharge of farm holdings has been avoided by cheaper means of farming until today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the contrary: In 1996, the cost of operating resources even increased by about 3.4 percent, due to higher fuel prices, overall higher energy prices, the increase in the cost of machinery and equipment, increased administrative costs, and also because, I do not want to forget, the VAT adjustment promised to farmers has not been made. Although the farmers have been promised this VAT adjustment in the Treaty of Europe, it has not been done so far. It is also hypothetical by the ÖVP, I would like to say, or it seems to be called for, only if it has been a matter of deciding on this adaptation, then the ÖVP has remained guilty of consent until now. This has to be said quite clearly here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Farm income in the agricultural sector has fallen substantially by about 10 percent. And also in 1997 – and we know that very well – agricultural incomes have fallen further, so that our farmers are in the right position just before the emergency workers. That should make you think, ladies and gentlemen. And what is the result of these huge income losses? As a result, many farms are locked up and thousands of jobs are lost. I have taken the following from a study by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry – I therefore assume that you, Mr Federal Minister, know very well how it really looks in rural areas; I quote: The consequences of this development are unmistakable in parts of rural areas. The following negative phenomena are of particular importance in this context: the economic stagnation and the backwardness of regional economic power, the high level of demigration that has already led to a population decline, the loss of jobs, the resulting sharp increase in occupational commuting, often in the form of long-term and long-term commuting. They are referred to as "problem commuters" in this study, Mr Schwarzenberger. That should make you think, ladies and gentlemen. And it is precisely these problem commuters who are also intensifying the labour market situation, which will add to the 300 000 unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! Another consequence of this negative development is the enormous increase in agricultural poverty. The same study says about rural poverty: Almost half of those at risk of poverty live in rural communities. The risk rate for poverty reaches 29 percent in rural communities, 19 percent in small cities, 10 percent in central and large cities. The highest risk rate in Burgenland is 29 percent. In Styria it is 25 percent, in Lower Austria 23 percent, in Vorarlberg 17 percent, in Salzburg 13 percent and in Vienna 11 percent. And by the way, it says: In Austria, 30.6 percent of rural households are at risk of poverty, 20 percent in France, 10 percent in Germany and 3.9% in the UK. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is your own study, Minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are the consequences of your missing agricultural policy, Minister of Agriculture! And there you can't make yourself and say: I am in favour of the enlargement of the East, but it must not reduce farmers and it must not cost them anything. They know quite well that this will not be the case, but that only the preparation for the enlargement of the East will cost 600 to 700 billion schilling – largely at the expense of the farmers. You know very well that, according to a request from Mr Edlinger, the Austrian Minister of Finance alone will increase the net contributions from Austria to the EU from 13 billion Schilling to 30 billion Schilling, mostly at the expense of the farmers. You can't make yourself there and say: I am in favour of enlargement of the East, while, on the other hand, our farmers are being let down. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, we liberals will ensure that the existence of our farmers and rural farming in Austria will continue to be ensured in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9565	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9586	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really need to go further on the comments made by my previous speaker, because our esteemed Federal Minister Molterer has just presented the situation of agriculture very precisely and not beautifully. We have also been shown by him that the agricultural policy lies with him in very, very good hands, and we trust him. He will be very much involved in the European agricultural policy in the next few years. We know that she is in good hands with him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This is the study of the Minister!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a resident of the rural area, I personally, of course, am very, very important of this habitat, and for me, a agriculture that protects this habitat is a very big concern. Health and quality of life are directly related to the management of soil and soil. In studying the Green Report, which we are discussing today, my interest was, of course, particularly in the chapter on agriculture, the environment, water management and water protection. And in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to see that even within the European Union these factors have a very high priority. Targeted support measures will ensure that the most valuable resources of our habitat are taken into account in the management process. Austria's agriculture is a special example within Europe. We use the environmental measures in the field of public transport to a very broad extent. Federal Minister Molterer has also pointed this out. More than 90 percent of our agricultural land is subject to at least one obligation under the environmental programme. This means that any further intensification in management is avoided. Support directives already require appropriate fertilisation at basic level and ensure that the livestock densities are not exceeded. 35 per cent of agricultural land is already excluded from yield-enhancing farm resources. Of course, this reasonable management primarily benefits our precious property, the water. The Green Report calls the quality of water satisfactory. The biological water quality class from 1995 already shows 72 percent of the water routes presented in grade 2 or better. With this water quality, ladies and gentlemen, we ensure additional habitats for animals and plants in the sense of sustainability. Through the environmentally friendly management, our agriculture contributes to our being able to live in a well-kept cultural landscape and that Austria remains attractive for holiday guests in the future. This almost incalculable achievement, which brings us a high return on the way, must be taken into account in particular if we are to discuss funding for agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report also shows that great progress has been made in the field of wastewater collection and cleaning. The rate of connection of public wastewater treatment plants has increased from 71 percent to 77.7% since 1991. The proportion of waste water cleaned in biological treatment plants could be increased from 68 to 73.5 percent in the same period. The rural communities in particular have contributed very much to improvements through their initiatives. A huge volume of investment has been moved here for the benefit of the environment, but it is also a very essential factor in the field of employment policy. In some cases, our parishioners have to pay very high canal fees. But they have great understanding of this because everyone has now recognized that an intact environment must also be something worth us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is also a valuable reference work on the state of our environment. I would also like to thank the authors very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9631	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9652	Mr President. Federal Minister for Agriculture! High house! [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer:... and forestry!]] For agriculture and forestry, of course, Minister of State! I'll come to you anyway. Federal Minister! What would happen to a board president of a stock company who would expect his workforce to get 7 percent less wages in a year? – It would probably be chosen at the next General Assembly. Federal Minister! As the head of the farmers, they naturally feel that they are getting 7 percent less income. I know that this is not alone. Your fault is, but, Minister of State, go into it once: Is this really the framework that you believe in Austrian agriculture to ensure that this loss of income does not occur? - I claim, no. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! A sub-area: The agricultural and forestry sector and agricultural and forestry income should not, in fact, result solely from the production of raw materials, cereals, fruit, wine, but you should also give farmers the opportunity to participate in the processing of these products so that, in addition to agricultural profits, they also profit from marketing. Mrs Aumayr as our first speaker has just mentioned this. But what happens there? – In the so-called agricultural processing sector, characterised by raiffeisen, not the profits generated there will be returned to farmers in the form of distributions, but they will invest in things that actually have nothing to do with agriculture and the safeguarding of incomes, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you are persistently refusing to change the cooperatives of the last century, because you know exactly that a modern cooperative law must be constructed as a company law in such a way that, of course, the farmers, who are almost owners of their own processing companies, will be able to obtain income from these crops. This would be a safeguarding of the economic location of agriculture itself, because, Mr Federal Minister, agriculture is also meant to act in economic transport. You, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, do not have an open ear in this regard. I have, unfortunately, heard nothing from you when we discussed this matter in the Committee on Justice. It would be a matter of course which you would have to express to the Minister for Justice that this cooperative law is finally being amended. But on the contrary: Federal Minister Michalek has said that there are areas in the dark circle of Raiffeisen, also supported by the Minister of Agriculture, which are on the brake rather than actually becoming active. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ah, you're on the brake?- Oh, my God!]] Federal Minister! To a second area, which, as I believe, has been somewhat lacking today and which is also a signal of your really missing funding policy. According to the Green Report, they have issued decommissioning premiums or redundancies for wine of around 183 million schilling. For the wine marketing, that is for the offensive, you spend 82 million schilling. That is, for the so-called defensive, that someone redecorates vineyards and with the routing actually loses its operational substance – I already know that this is voluntary, but only the signal is significant – more is spent than for marketing measures. Federal Minister! I believe that particularly in the marketing sector in this particular culture. Wine would be a lot inside. This is a non-insignificant industry. We currently have the situation that we are not really able to deal with the wine due to low wine harvests and therefore cannot really cover domestic consumption, despite 0.5 per milligrams, despite restricted consumption. Federal Minister! They allow eyes to see that in wine shops 18 percent of bottles from Chile, Argentina, New Zealand, or Australia are already being offered that slowly disperse our wine from the shelves. On the one hand, you say that the wine industry belongs to sales promotion, and on the other hand, you say that the vineyards should be reddish in themselves. How does the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry – unfortunately not for the wine industry – fit in economically? This is an economic charlatanry from this government bank, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Well worked out!]] This concerns in the area of Lower Austria, Burgenland, Styria many agricultural holdings, many agricultural and wine business combinations, and is intended to ensure approximately 20,000 farms and thus about 80 000 people active in the wine sector and in wine-growing. Federal Minister! I think you should do a lot of things. You haven't done that in the past. I do not give up on you hope, but I am really not very confident that you will really set this up in this government constellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9733	Mrs Sophie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9801	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since we are discussing the Green Report today, I have, of course, looked at the situation of the miners and the auxiliary farmers in Styria more closely. There has been a fall in the number of miners in the 1995-1996 period. This is actually a pity, as they make a valuable contribution to the preservation of our cultural and recreational landscape through their laborious and often very difficult work. However, this decline is not only due to the fact that management is no longer expected, but also to the fact that children are seeking other occupations. If I compare the situation of a utility farmer with that of an industrial worker or a worker with a 40-hour week and a earnings of 8 500 s net, then I must say that the auxiliary worker has the opportunity to feed himself on his land and land, while the industrial worker also has the cost of housing and living. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the Styria we had only 16 101 full-time farmers in 1996. For this, however, the number of additional workers has already increased to 40,729. In some areas, there are already 90 to 100 percent auxiliary workers. Thus these represent the dominant form of agricultural economies. The utility farmers are an essential factor for maintaining the minimum density of the settlement and for the design of the recreation landscape, especially in the peripheral regions and mountain areas. The utility farmer has the possibility to farm his fields biologically. This, of course, has a positive effect on its income situation, since organic farms – and that is also crucial – have a lower corporate burden. If some feel that the income situation is increasing due to the share of public funds, this is certainly not true, as the current funding – which has already been addressed – is hardly above the average. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the main criteria for the distribution of existing funds must be ecological criteria and social staggering at Agenda 2000. A set of ceilings will prevent 80 percent of the funding being distributed to 20 percent of those concerned as before. As almost 70 per cent of the agricultural area falls within the category of less favoured areas in Austria, we must make every effort to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are finally encouraged. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we Social Democrats will continue to fight for a base amount.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9854	The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9875	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a very important discussion which is taking place here today on the Green Report. The Federal Minister has already said that there is nothing to be beautiful at all. Of course, income declines are always a sad matter – so I would like to formulate it. But I think that there are different operational situations that lead to this situation. Income is made up of many factors. First: Income is highly dependent on the market. Unfortunately, there is overproduction across Europe, for example in beef and veal. We have 700 000 tonnes in stock. There is also a surplus of 20 percent for milk. And there is a decline in the consumption of meat throughout Europe, which, of course, is enormously pressing on the market. Of course we also have location disadvantages. Operating sizes, high environmental requirements and much more expensive operating resources lead to disadvantages against other suppliers on the market. That's why direct payments are so important. If today Mr Salzl of the ÖVP has reproached hypocrisy in the context of VAT adjustment, I would like to make it clear that: The ÖVP does not represent the Minister of Finance. I have even missed a concept from you, Mrs Aumayr. Even today, they have not presented a concept for Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is no longer subject to any further burden, either on social taxes or on new taxes. I am also firmly opposed to the fact that there is a time and again the need to introduce the single value to transport value. I firmly reject this because we simply cannot do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Molterer for the fact that he has managed to develop the ÖPUL programme for 98 years, and he has achieved that by 2002 a 40 billion package will become effective so that farmers can rely on further funding available in this area. I am also grateful to him for ensuring compensation in Brussels. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I believe that the future development of Austrian agriculture is particularly dependent on decisions taken in Brussels. The WTO negotiations are pending, and I believe that there is no need for a progressive obedience to America, because America simply cannot offer a comprehensive programme for its agricultural production. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! If it is stated here that the British Minister for Agriculture speaks of the possibility of ending agricultural subsidies in ten years' time, I must say: This clearly speaks against rural areas, against an intact environment and against functioning villages. This may be acceptable for England, but not for Austria. We simply need these compensatory payments, and I am very much in favour of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I would also like to thank Mr Molterer, who, in the event of an EU enlargement, proposes a special funding programme and special border support. I am also hopeful of the announcement made by Commissioner Fischler that he would like to further develop the environmental programmes. That tends exactly in the direction that Austria always pretends. I also welcome the WTO's decision to maintain the ban on imports of hormone-treated meat imposed on Americans. In this case too, Austria has prevailed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For the future of our farmers, it will also be important for us to have strong marketing facilities that can sell in Austria and also in Europe. I saw at the Green Week in Berlin that Austria is very present and can play in the international concert. Another point – I have already mentioned this in my speech – is the economic measures that need to be re-established, also through reasonable investments. In the future, in particular, the machine rings need to be used more intensively. The workplace farm has an important role for society. Some 600,000 jobs depend on him. Austria will not be without farmers in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e9987	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A chapter in this very comprehensive Green Report concerns agriculture and the environment. Some environmental problems have already been addressed briefly today. I believe that the ecological problem areas are becoming increasingly recognizable in recent times. An example of this is the forest. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the forest has recently been exposed to more and more new pollutants. We need, however, to strengthen the protection of the forest. This is why I would like to repeat here a demand which I have already made from this pult, namely that there is a substantial reduction in the over-exploited wildlife. This will have a significant impact on the restoration of the forests to be given special priority. We need this reduction in the wildlife population. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you come to the government, pick it up!]] Their call for action is not very relevant in terms of reducing the wildlife population. We are concerned about this, and I know that this is very often contrary to other interest groups. However, if we are in favour of the Wald area of interest, we must also fight for a reduction in the wildlife population. Another example is the water industry. The long-term protection of water supply is top priority, but also biotopes and recreation areas are priority tasks. We also need to counter taxes, especially in groundwater, so that pollutants do not continue to occur due to nitrogen compounds and high atrazine concentrations. We must take measures in this area, particularly in intensive farming. The ÖPUL programme was very well accepted. That is why I am very glad that the Federal Minister has promised an extension of the environmental programme here today. This enabled the farmers to achieve a lot. But in the future we need to step up our efforts – I believe that this has not yet been addressed – for the renewable raw materials that lead to a new income base for agriculture. This objective should be more addressed in the sense of improving agriculture. Federal Minister! In conclusion: We stand by your four-point program and want to carry it with you. We Socialists only believe that these four points have been forgotten on a central point. Perhaps we could add a fifth common point to these four cornerstones you have made today. And this fifth point is: We need central animal protection for all of Austria! We need uniform animal protection, whether in the Burgenland, in Tirol, in Vienna, in Styria or in another federal country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] It cannot be that animal welfare is not everywhere the same as animal welfare. [[Abg. Wabl: Right!]] Please join us for a central animal protection!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10066	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10087	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has now provoked me to speak this word. For only the appeal that the Federal Government and this House may make themselves strong for an Austrian-wide uniform animal protection is clearly not enough to me from the mouth of a Member of the strongest government group. There is not only a two-thirds majority in this House, but much more. There are four political groups that want to do so. And I believe that strong nationally uniform animal welfare in Austria with strict minimum standards would be a very important feature, a very important criterion in order to preserve agricultural production and jobs in this area. Therefore, once again my question to the SPÖ: Who are you appealing to? You've got it in your hand... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The appeals within the government – that is exactly what is causing this government policy inconsistency in the population. I have the impression that you don't really want that either. Although you identify with the objective, it is really right for you – on the question of women, on the question of genetic engineering, on the question of animal welfare – if you can carry out a permanent election campaign with these topics by 1999. They always say: We would like to, but the coalition partner does not leave us! And the ÖVP claims that their prevention actually uses the interests of a certain client. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Animal Protection!]] Nothing goes on in the matter, nothing goes on at all! Mr. Klubobmann Khol! There's really nothing going on, and it's no use for animal welfare either. Or can you give me some example, some federal country in which the Article 15a agreement on farm animals has led to decisive improvements, to the abolition of intensive farming for farmers, for farm production? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The new law in Tyrol!]] Then we could talk about it, but it doesn't change anything! Ladies and gentlemen! Also this Green Report... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have no idea, Mrs. Petrovic! You have good intentions, but no expertise!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! That is what I say about the ÖVP! Look You're the acquirer... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a simple return carriage!]] Let us not talk about the animals, but let us talk about the farmers! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Let's talk about the animals!]] We can talk about this for a very long time, and we have an opportunity to do so today. But take a look at the income situation of the farmers, and also look at the total income from the agricultural and forestry sectors! There, too, you can see how your policy works, in the form that the great ones are getting bigger, that the income situation in the agricultural favours, for example in the Lower Austrian lowlands and hilllands, is improving, but that incomes continue to decline wherever there is already a dramatic need for recovery in the income situation. That is to say, the gap between the poor and the rich also grows in the agricultural farms, and this has a direct impact on the people who work there but also on the animals, because in these large products the trend is going towards intensification. Federal Minister! If the farmers are prejudiced by the fact that there will be a relatively well-trained biomarketer in Austria, but if you just have to look at the market – that is, industrial production – these are the ideas of Mr Maderthaner: up with the upper levels of stocks, weaken the EIA duty – if you say that to the farmers, then you will strengthen this development, and thus you will give up what some EIA politicians once saw correctly as a forward-looking path – namely to put on the fine-cost shop in Austria. Federal Minister! This sawing and hesitation, this lack of clear commitment to global ecologicalization, is exactly what is uncertain about Austrian agriculture, which ultimately prevents a quality label "Made in Austria". For my colleague Wabl said it quite correctly: It is not possible to have a genetic field next to a bioacker. Again: Please stop appealing to each other from the government groups and now stage election campaign for a year and a half! Finally, do something for Austrian agriculture, consumers and animals!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10184	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur is not asked for a final word. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-97 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the use of genetic engineering as a minimum criterion for participation in ÖPUL II. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 970 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 971 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I also ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 972 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would also ask for an appropriate sign in this regard. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 973 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. 6. Point Report of the Economic Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs (III-93 of the Supplements) on the situation in the tourism and leisure sector in Austria 1996 (1031 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10288	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We come to the first word. Mrs Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10318	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The tourism is hardly uphill, but high-ranking politicians can again be found at the hotel's meeting. – Quote "Little Newspaper" from last week. I have to say that the "Small Newspaper" really caught it, because the "Small Newspaper" asked, as did many hoteliers at this meeting: Where have they been so far, the high-ranking politicians, when it came to putting the Austrian tourism industry really under the arms? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Where have you been in the preparation of the tax packages, which have weakened the purchasing power of the Austrians so much that now – and you know that – domestic tourism will also decline for the first time? Where were you, Mr. Minister, with the appointment of the managing director of Austria advertising? I know it was. Your predecessor, only as President, could you have taken steps for a long time, because Mr Höferer has approved in the third year of office, in the last year of office, a gag increase in speech and writing of a million schillings, and this with your consent, Mr Minister! [[Abg. Murauer is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] Would you please be so kind and not disturb the debate, Mr Cot? [[Call the liberals:Murauer! Murauer!]] Mr Murauer may he make his interventions later. Where were you, Mr. Minister, when the energy tax was introduced? Where were you at the introduction of the energy tax, Mr. Minister? You know very well that for hotel operators with sauna and indoor pool alone, the energy tax is subject to an extra charge of 150 000 to 200 000 s. Where have you been, Mr Minister, in introducing the taxation of the recovery profit? You know very well that no farm in Austria will ever be able to carry out a forced compensation. You know very well that the government operates carcasses at Austrian companies. This is your way of dealing with the farms! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where have you been at the discussion about the drinking tax so far? You have the opportunity to deposit the question in Brussels at the respective bodies and to check whether the excise duty is EU-absorbing, yes or no. The Chamber of Commerce collects 300 000 signatures, we make the requests for the abolition of the excise duty, and the same representatives of the Chamber of Commerce here in this House vote against the ÖVP. Where are you, Minister? These are your people! Where have you been in the last two years, when the ITB, the world's largest tourism trade fair, met where all the tourism ministers were present to represent their country? - You weren't there. Where were you at the introduction of the Vignette, Mr. Minister? The Vignette is currently one of the biggest image problems for our tourism. This shows only the presentation of recent times in all German newspapers, and also in today's "Kronen Zeitung": Prison for Pickerls. A German holiday guest should go to prison because he picked the wrong thing! [[Abg. Kiss: No, because he parked wrong!]] As someone travels to Austria, wants to leave his money here, Austrian holiday visitor wants to be: He is first garnished at the border to buy a vignette, and then he gets another scraper because the existing vignette does not go down at all. And there's still on the shawl on it: Watch out! In no case work with the blade side, otherwise you could scratch the disc. – Our holiday guests don’t even know how to get this stuff from the windshield – not to talk about the Austrians at all. But also the suffering-tested holiday guests are affected, who bring money to Austria. That's one of these turtle strokes in Austria that always falls on our minds – also in tourism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know, Minister of State, that in the Council of Ministers you have made a request that there should only be a vignette obligation from the first motorway exit. I'm telling you quite specific, there's an ally in us. But we will make a request today, and we will look at how your group in this House, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the entire Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, will respond. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Once more crash!]] She'll fall by once again. It will go down in government, and with it our tourism will go down. And that is what you have to answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian tourism industry is in spite of a 2-percent increase – you will probably be able to tell us now – totally on the ground, because the declines in recent years – 30 billion in turnover – are in no way to bet in any way. I know there are two think schools in Austria. The one think school – I don't know if you belong to it – says that 6,000 businesses are a danger to the Austrian tourism industry. 6 000 farms represent a threat to the rest of the industry. These plants are supposed to die, they are supposed to be rationalized, because they hurt the others. - That's the one think school. But the second school of thought, to which we are grateful, belongs the majority of Austrian tourism companies. These are those who continue to fight for every guest to come to Austria to continue to fight on their own initiative, which have long since given up, to believe in the government. They fight with their own resources, pay four times to advertise, fight for their homes to be filled. We belong to this category, and for those who fight so much, we make politics in this house and not for those elitist businesses who say: [[Complaints with the liberals]] All the others we lock up, because then we can survive! – This is not our way of making politics in tourism. I would also like to say one thing to you, Mr Minister: The government is required to finally create the conditions – I can't hear this word again and say it again – for the farms to survive. It is also clear from your tourism report. Even your Mr Smeral says that the appropriate framework conditions should finally be created. This includes, of course, a reduction in VAT by at least 2 per cent, including a reduction in VAT on non-alcoholic beverages. Many people don't know this: We are the only country in Europe with 20 percent VAT on mineral water, fruit juices and baby food. There is no such thing as the fact that a mineral water with a value added tax of 20 per cent is taxed on a maximum value added tax rate throughout Europe. We call for the reintroduction of investment premiums – these are urgently necessary. We call for a solution to the drinking tax so that the companies finally know what they're doing. We demand a covert of energy taxation as in industry. We are calling for a reluctance for business meals to finally re-enter business meals, especially in the urban sector; They know that there are no company meals in Austria or, at least, less and less. We also demand that the Vignette-Schikane be finally removed. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm going to ask you to do this before the summer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This must not lie for another half a year. In conclusion, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you in all clarity for the x-th time: Finally take responsibility for Austrian tourism! I advise you to go to a farm and go through the calculation with an entrepreneur. Then it will no longer happen that, as you have done in the Committee, you claim that there is no labour costs, no additional wage costs, but only more unit labour costs. Then you will insist that in the case of a service company there is no mention of unit labour costs at all that this is not applicable in such a holding, that you are wrong with that. Unfortunately, you have proved your seclusion, and this is a sad game for our beautiful tourist country Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10457	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Puttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10482	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Request, demand, demand, demand – I have heard nothing else in the last few minutes from my predecessor, the in-scene host from Graz. [[Call the liberals:Cash, cash, cash!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Load, load, load!]] I am delighted that the FPÖ is again demanding, perhaps not 60 billion, but this time 100 billion. That's all I want to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The tourism report was presented in a new form. – Thank you many times, he is more readable, I can see him more easily, I can easily capture the numbers. Mr Federal Minister, this is good, but I believe that a mere change in packaging in the product tourism is not enough. It is a matter of discussing, in fact, the serious, but in my opinion, no hopeless situation, of addressing the facts, of talking about the facts, and of not going into shrieks and fantasies that continue to exist in the "F" dream world. [[Abg. Rossmann: We live in reality, that's the difference!]] I will then return to your remarks. Ladies and gentlemen! As the report shows and the fact is, the Austrian tourism industry has had a slight increase in sales of 179.6 billion schillings in 1996 for the first time, i.e. we have achieved a turnaround to God, but this does not mean that a recovery has occurred in the tourism sector. I would also like to make that very clear. The results of the guest survey, which are also included in the tourism report, show what is essential in the future. Event marketing, attractions and quality of service are those positions that we have the most to deal with. Business with leisure time and with holidays is booming like no other industry in the world as a whole. The world is full of experience consumers who first want to fight their boredom because they have more and more leisure time, and the second wants to be cared for and handcuffed. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where are they all going?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is our task to help entrepreneurs to cope with this mental change. It is our job to create conditions and not just to demand but to actually create conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Why don't you do it?]] But we also have to make them clear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is worth "producing" adventure tourism – under quotation marks. We must tell them that it is worth making special and inclusive offers. We must tell them that the pooling of existing forces on foreign markets is necessary, that it is necessary to open up foreign markets together and to work together on foreign markets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We entrepreneurs know that not problem-solving, but problem-solving is crucial, and there can only be positive developments if we really want an active, positive design of this industry. If we speak positively of it, then on the one hand investment is invested and on the other hand we consume it in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This report shows a lot of what has been achieved. Only points: Mountain biking has come – still too little; Training opportunities for the EU – still too little. We have found ways of financing the equity companies, we have changed the directive, we have made a tourism bank out of the hotel loyalty. These are things that are positive, things that one should call, and things that have a vital, serious meaning for us from the tourism industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, I often have the impression that it is this sector that is being beaten up. I just want to say three positions. First – I almost suspect that it is wanted –: It is indeed a chuzpe that a toll exemption for the route from the border to the first motorway exit, as the Federal Minister has demanded, should not now be possible. Has it still not been annoyed enough citizens, enough strangers, enough holidaymakers? Where Schengen is concerned, we want to open a new border with Pickerl! – That cannot be the policy we want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Is there not a small border traffic for politicians? – Then please stay there somewhere, but not here in the central area of Vienna. One word only for discussion on 0.5 and 0.8 promille: If one had checked the 0.8 promille in the same way, then this Parliament would have saved a lot of blamage and much discussion as a whole! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] – You fell by, we don’t need to talk about you at all! A third example: Why do we have to do the theater around the seasonal kidneys every year? It cannot be possible, however, that before the start of the season it is possible to quantify what needs actually exist in the establishments. I really ask our coalition partners to: Let us, together, go on the path of satisfying the economy in this context. This is in favour of the economy, that is in favour of Austria, and we will certainly achieve much faster positive results in this respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What are the positive signals we could give to businesses from the Parliament which we can give to the government of the economy? – Of course, I am thinking about job placement, but not only within Austria, but also throughout the EU. I am thinking of equity capital and I am only allowed to address the term "non-accepted profits". [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There is a free request! Did you agree?]] I am thinking of the already discussed "eternal" mortgages, I am thinking of the decriminalization of labour rights. However, I am also thinking of two positions which the Federal Minister gratefully has already taken up. Firstly, the promotion of self-marketing activities for small and medium-sized enterprises abroad. Mr. Federal Minister! The tourism check that you encourage is to be discussed and introduced. That's an investigational activity. But you should do this quickly and quickly. Secondly, Mr. Federal Minister! They have also stimulated the measures of the merger of the foreign offices of Austria with the foreign trade agencies of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. I believe that this is a signal which shows the Austrian entrepreneur that it is more effective to work that more money is available for actual advertising. I think this signal is recorded! I also ask the countries to participate in this context, because there are resistances from the differentiated areas of the countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We are proud of the many innovative, many initiatives of Austrian entrepreneurs working in tourism. But we will give a clear rejection to all those who are trying to make our tourism. Positive thinking – and that is what I want to say in the direction of the FPÖ – is recommended. I believe that this Parliament should work together in this respect: thinking positively for a sector that is important, yes, essential for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10646	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10667	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today I am able to speak to the tourism report, although it is strange that an industry producing and responsible 14% of the Austrian gross domestic product is discussed traditionally, or for whatever reason, according to the agricultural report, which generates 3 percent of the gross domestic product. Perhaps we should consider whether we are setting priorities properly or whether we have forgotten the order of rank in front of loud scams, the order of importance. I think that's a small indication in this direction. Federal Minister! The report is generally reasonable, clear and informative. You, your officials and we know that he is a descriptive report. From our point of view, it is also a bit beautiful and does not really address the problems of the tourism industry. He also has a great lack in my eyes: It was created from a macroeconomic point of view and does not address the business problems of thousands of Austrian tourism companies, and I regret that. What is above all missing is the approaches to problem-solving. There is also no discussion on the impact of the tourism crisis. Mr Puttinger! Even if you think that positive thinking has been said, it will still be possible to say that we are very likely to have a crisis. This has nothing to do with positive thinking. There is a tourism crisis in Austria, and it is very serious. It also has an impact: regional policy – without a doubt – and employment policy adverse effects and, of course, the well-known and well-understandable impact on the Austrian current account deficit, which is becoming a serious economic problem for this Republic, and which will not help us much too much of the euro and integration within Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we are now discussing the tourism report – in the middle of January – we are automatically doing so with some warning. Snow is falling, especially now, and we can therefore expect a good winter season in the key countries, in the priority countries. A few days before the run in Kitzbühel, this will also have a corresponding external effect and advertising effect. That's what we're happy about. [[Abg. Leikam: Snow also falls on the Mölltal glacier!]] – Even at the Mölltal glacier, Mr. Leikam, although of course a glacier ski area, as you know, is of crucial importance for the affected regions and the federal state of Carinthia even in winters that are poor or especially in winter. We must offer safety to be able to exercise this sport, even in the event of adverse weather conditions. This will help us to improve or guarantee utilization. I also believe that winter tourism plays a subordinate role in relation to the problems we have in the summer and that, therefore, at least in those establishments which can be run for two seasons, crisis events are by far not so strong. Despite all this, in the priority countries of Tyrol, Carinthia, Salzburg and Vorarlberg – if we are talking about urban tourism now, of course we would also call Vienna, but there are other laws, as we know – at best a small breath break won or won a breath through a good winter season or through two good winter seasons, and we should also benefit from them. I believe that discussing this and taking up the findings of the tourism report is also an hour's commandment. The regional policy impact of the crisis is to be felt most strongly in the four states mentioned, that is no question. I can say from my own experience that this will have, or already has, an impact on, the construction industry or on the construction industry, even on the industrially structured – perhaps in the first place there, on the construction sector and on the subcontractors. We can understand this very well. In order to give you just one idea, at the end of the 1970s in Carinthia we achieved our sales of almost 40 percent for the tourism industry, and today it is still 5 percent. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who is "we"?]] – My undertaking, Mr Haigermoser, and this is a significant one, a renowned one in Carinthia, as you may know. In this way you can see that a key industry is also affected, which, due to its high multiplier, has been able to give positive impetus to the economy as a whole in these tourism-powered regions. The second aspect is without question the aspect of employment. Even if we are trying ten times, on flexibilizations and other things which are not considered unilaterally here in this House, to exacerbate this crisis, then it is unmistakable and inevitable that the employment impulses that come from the tourism industry are falling and that we are losing labour and jobs. This may be a less serious problem for industrial politicians or trade unions than for job losses in the nuclear industries, but for those affected and for the regions... – I am pleased, Mr Marizzi, that you are denying it. [[Abg. Marizzi shakes the head.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] . I wish, Mrs Mertel, that your group would judge the crisis and the workplace situation in tourism with similar commitment and that "einihaut" – as it is so well said – would be as she did at Semperit or in other cases. What you say and how you act – at least what is presented to the public – are two pairs of shoes. I believe that the many ten thousand employees in the tourism industry would also deserve to be given a little courage from this side. So it would be nice, Mrs Mertel, if you could do something about this! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, I would like to talk about the impact on the current account, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to remind you that in 1992 we had a current account surplus of 72 billion schilling, and we all know that it will be around 15 billion schilling in 1997. - Excuse me! This is the surplus of travel, not the current account deficit, which is negative at billions, i.e.: We were able to contribute 72 billion schilling from travel in 1992 to the current account surplus, because at that time we also had a surplus. Today, we can only reduce the current account deficit by 15 billion schilling out of the tourism industry, and this, Mr. Federal Minister – you and the ladies and gentlemen of the National Bank – is in the long run an alarm sign, although, of course, we have other priorities in our debate. But you know that we also have to accept this. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the economic importance of Mr Helmut Peter is, of course, doing this with much more commitment, with more heart-blood, that may be missing, but despite all this, I am also important to the tourism industry as an economic leader and also as a affected person, because I would like to build some hotels, we would like to see it positively – and the reference of colleague Peter to the multiplier of the tourism industry are to be repeated again and again. We have 25 percent for accommodation, 25 percent for food, and the remaining 50 percent do not go to the immediate sector tourism. This multiplier should also give thought to those who have nothing to do with tourism and who have no interest in tourism, because there is really a key industry or an industry with a key role to play. And if we do not succeed in becoming the master of the crisis, the effects would be dramatic accordingly. Federal Minister! The question still arises: How can we make a contribution from the federal government, from the countries to cope with this crisis? – Ms Rossmann said: I am one of those who stand up for us to continue to fight! To this end, I must say: I would also be of the opinion that you should not "w.o." But you're supposed to fight. But if we decide to fight and if we want to give the affected families, the many thousands – in Carinthia, I know a few dozen of them who are directly affected – the advice and courage to fight, then we also have to give them weapons and tell them that this fight is not only a plague and ultimately cannot be improved. Therefore, the assessment, so sober and so unsavory, is that one third of the farms are healthy, competitive and viable, so we do not have to look at them any further, because they have their own strength and will also benefit them, a third will create it with some support, but another third is no longer remedial. Ladies and gentlemen! I have studied some of the relevant balance sheets, set up cash flow calculations and must You just ask: How do you want to achieve this if you have today a tourism company with an investment needs that is twice as high as the book value if the equity is zero if the return expectations are at half a percent, a three-quarters percent or 1.25 percent? - It's not feasible. And to give the people concerned the signal from this pult, to say that there is a hope that there is a chance – contrary to business rules! – that’s not my business, and I don’t want to do that either. But what we can do, ladies and gentlemen, is to note that we have to create exit aid and exit opportunities, and this is only about the federal side. Unless you want to see how this insolvency continues to roll. We have adopted a beautiful law, as you know; I do not know what the exact title is, but perhaps Professor Van der Bellen could help me. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Reorganisation Act!]] Reorganisation law, I thank you for the follow-up. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not yet a single case!]] Well, it depends on how you explain it. If you want to live the Reorganisation Act as we have decided, then hundreds of cases must already be pending. The fact is that once again – and we have had enough of this pult in mind – we have passed a law that is not being followed at all. But since this law, as we remember, provides for sanctions for the responsible managing directors, I fear that it will once give a great awakening, and that is inconvenient and not desirable. We have also proposed this and have already said it at the time, Mr Federal Minister, I would be pleased if you could be won as an ally – that, if we already decide on a reorganisation law, we must also, on the other hand, at least devote ourselves to the issue of capital resources – in the tourism sector, this is an essential question – and to the silent reserves. It is inconceivable not to make any provision for the silent reserves in tourism companies, including those who have an opportunity to survive, i.e. in these first two thirds, if we do not want to have a flood of such applications or procedures. Whether the euro opening-up law is, or whether this is another measure, it is put forward. We are ready for every disgrace, my Ladies and gentlemen, but we should definitely take it seriously and not say, Well, he doesn't have the formal requirements, he actually has to register, but that doesn't matter anyway, because he still has silent reserves. – That would not be the way we have decided. I therefore believe, Minister of State, that there is something to be done at three levels: I believe that the communities must be invited to consider a little in the field of land use in order to facilitate the exit of affected farms. This can be prevented from being made impossible by land use, and I know many cases in Carinthia, where this is actually the case. I think that the countries should think again about where they are locating their housing funds. I think it would be appropriate – and I have called for this in Carinthia several times – for the countries to think about setting up for a certain period a percentage of the funds available to them for the promotion of housing to renovate tourism and thus also to facilitate an exit for the families of owners concerned. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, you should talk to your colleague, Edlinger, about the fact that it is not useful to demand from a company a fictional tax benefit – sales revenue or the like – that it cannot provide. This makes rehabilitation from this point of view impossible. I think... [[Abg. Böhacker: That's what you're saying now because the type of income is changing!]] – Right, because the type of income changes, from business, rental and lease. This view is simply foreign to the world, and I actually do not see why we could not achieve such a new regulation quickly and relatively unanimously. Mr Puttinger! I appreciate you – at least as a tourist specialist; even in other ways, even if you do not want to believe me. I confirm that I appreciate you as a tourist expert. They come down here and give good advice. To this end, I must say: Yes, Mr Puttinger, you are right, we need the experience holiday, the foreign markets we need to work together with et cetera. But believe me, Mr Puttinger: She and Your colleague, who is successful in the tourism industry, knows that, you know what to do, and also implement it. But unfortunately it is only this one third of the farms that can implement these commandments by their own power. The other two thirds, Mr Puttinger, do not have this power – you know that. If you say – your words! – that we need an active, positive design of the industry and that optimism is recommended, I must say: Mr Puttinger! This reminds me of the then Minister of Finance climate, because he said: I want optimistic entrepreneurs around me! - You can't order that. [[Abg. Swimmling: But wish!]] Mr. Schwemlein! You can't say: Be optimistic, and it's all good! We must be realistic, Mr Puttinger. And you, of course, have from the government group... – I know, Mr Puttinger. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: A glass of water can be half full and half empty!]] But I turn to you today with the utmost moderate, as you see it, directly and I would like to replicate your statements and say what I do not think is logical. Mr Puttinger! What is the active, positive design of the industry? Is it the beautification? Is it the rule that it is rejected that one cannot even use the first departure free of charge? Is it the municipal tax? Are they working conditions or other things? It is simply unacceptable if you, Mr Puttinger, say that one of the starting points is the decriminalisation of labour rights. You are right, but a party, a group that has passed the Workers' Protection Act, just as your party has done, must not say this here without a strong opposition from the Liberals. That's not a credible policy! [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Böhacker.]] We too believe that there could be a bundle of measures. At the same time, however, Mr President, we know that we cannot go here and say that it should be 30 billion schilling, 50 billion schilling or 100 billion schilling; we are so realistic. We believe, however, that there can be a bundle that costs little or not much money, but that perhaps costs something else, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, namely the power to take the suffrages, to throw old ideologies overboard and to do what the tourism industry rightly calls on us to do, namely to improve, within the framework of the possibility of the existence of the workers in tourism and/or to guarantee them at least an honorable exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10811	The next item is the speech by Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10833	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, in agreement with the Federal Minister, that it is not very pleasant for us to discuss the 1996 tourism report in January 1998. I believe that we in Parliament too must strive to put such reports on the agenda very quickly after their arrival in order to be able to hold an up-to-date debate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The 1994 health report is still not here for this!]] I agree with Mr Puttinger's statement that the report has a new form, which makes sense. I underline that. It not only contains more statistics and more information, but also issues are addressed, there are also concrete proposals that can be discussed safely. Ladies and gentlemen! The trend in sales – you can see that if you look at not only the figures for 1996, but also the newer figures for 1997 – is a positive trend, as opposed to the figures for employment. It can be derived from shorter, but more often on vacation, and from the fact that the offer of target group-oriented, multifaceted, with more events and more experiences must be designed. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 report also shows – this trend is also evident for 1997 – that the winners who constantly improve the quality of their businesses are among the winners. This is why tourism companies of higher categories have survived considerably better in recent years. High house! For me, it was crucial that the 1996 report recognises that the structural problems of Austrian tourism can only be solved by more cooperation, in particular through cooperation, as the report says, through horizontal, vertical and diagonal cooperation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Only" not!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: "In special"!]] For me, this is an expression of the need for comprehensive cooperation, a cooperation between businesses, municipalities, infrastructure facilities and also companies belonging to other industries. In this way, a political call for the Social Democrats, namely to understand regional tourism organisations as the hub of these cooperations, was enforced. They have also been found in the funding guidelines. Our aim is now that in Austria there should be 20 to 30 such regions, such regional brands – in this respect we agree with the municipal government – a network of businesses, institutions and infrastructure across borders and borders. This is also intended to promote cooperation between stakeholders and the population, to strengthen the willingness to do something for tourism and to frighten the "operators". The regional tourism organisation thus has the task of developing, managing, applying and marketing the product. This has to be supported accordingly by the countries, especially Austria's advertising. The annex to this report shows us, however, that we still have a long way to go, because, for example, only Tyrol has 253 associations and 36 regional organizations. However, one is trying to change that. There are seven regions in Lower Austria, but there are still 24 territorial associations behind them. So there is still a lot to be done in this area. The report also shows that our consideration is true, because those regions or regions in which there is a high degree of cooperation and very strong thematic positioning have also cut off better than others in 1996. Federal Minister! We have now reached the point of implementation. Model regions are now to be introduced, and you have our support. Ladies and gentlemen! At a TCÖ meeting, a meeting of the Tourism Circle Austria, where we have been dealing with new media and tourism – for example, the Internet, the question of a tourism and weather channel, which has now been introduced and is a very positive signal – we have found that the Internet can be a new way to transmit information. I think it is positive that a study shows that two thirds of all businesses are already present on the Internet or are currently going to the Internet. I think that's a good signal. The investment activity of the enterprises has also increased in 1997 – including the planning for 1998 – mainly in terms of quality, and that is crucial for me. On this occasion I would like to say very clearly that this increase in quality must not be reduced by investment and that we must also make a very special effort in terms of the quality of working conditions and in terms of the quality of training, because success in tourism is given to an extremely high proportion if the human factor works accordingly. Federal Minister! On a second topic, on Austria's advertising. I would like to quote from several newspapers. The 'Salzburger Nachrichten' read that there will be a concept in mid-January 1998 and a representative of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce from Salzburg said that, with a certain amount of training, the staff of the foreign trade agencies could also perform many tasks, with a view to bringing together the foreign trade agencies and the foreign offices of the ÖW more or less. In the newspaper "tourist austria", Syndic Dr. Schimka says: I imagine a level plan, starting with the voluntary branches, and later the main R & D branches are to be taken over by the foreign trade agencies. I could quote some other articles. Federal Minister! So far we have not negotiated this question, we have not discussed it anywhere, we only hear it again and again. I would therefore like to ask you: What do you really want in this regard? How's that going? It is impossible for us, Mr Federal Minister, to think that, through a cooperation between the ÖW and the Federal Chamber of Commerce, there will be a flow of subsidies to the Chamber of Commerce, with a passage through the ÖW. It's impossible for us to think! I would like to ask you to present a concept on the proposed cooperation so that this can be discussed. I believe that cooperation, so cooperation, is very important. Finally, let me say something about Mr Rossmann's comments: Mrs Rossmann! First of all, I would like to reject what you call the Director-General of the ÖW! You know very well that this is not true, and that is the perfide of it. Mr Lukas, the predecessor, has had 160 000 S, Mr Höferer has had 120 000 S and a success premium for it, and he has received this success premium because, for example, he has managed to reverse the ratio of marketing expenditure and personnel costs of 45 : 55, and that is why he is entitled to this success premium. [[Abg. Rossmann: That is not a merit, that is of course!]] [[Abg. Leikam: How much did Luke have?]] In the final effect, he is no longer worthy of any more than the Freeman Luke. Luke had 160,000 S. What do you want? Are you from us? [[Further call of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Mr Rossmann! You don't need to get upset. I understand that you are under infinite pressure. [[Abg. Leikam: Is that EU Member Luke?]] You are under pressure of power, you have to bring performance, your party chief demands performance. We have already noticed this with some other speakers of the FPÖ, who have believed that they will receive a mandate from their leader through particularly loud roaring and screaming, but that will not work anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Mr Puttinger! You have made many proposals, just briefly: Tourism check. If this is an action in accordance with the principle of foundry, in which you attribute 50 000, 60 000 and 70 000 so across the vegetable garden to anyone, then I must say that we do not agree with it. But if it is a reasonable solution – you have to talk about it – then we will take a close look at it. To the vignette also something: It costs 200 million to 300 million – this is reflected in the study presented by the Minister himself. The Federal Minister must know how he ensures, for example, the ASFINAG financing, since we have committed ourselves to raising at least 50 percent of the financing costs in accordance with the EU-Maastricht criteria. He also wants to build a lot, road pricing at the truck we still don't have. – The church must stay in the village, dear friend! We agree with the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10959	The next word is spoken by Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e10980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 5 minute time limit is not only a sign that such a small group does not have a lot of speaking time available in one day, but also that it would make much more sense, in my view, to delete this annual ritual of discussion of the tourism report, but to hold an appropriate, reasonable debate in the Committee, with the completion of this report, so that we can spare ourselves this annual ritual here. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Enough, Mrs. Langthaler!]] The arguments I have heard here so far from the individual political groups are not substantially different from those of the last year. And I don't really realize you're just going one step further. Minister! On the report itself: The report is, like most of the reports we are presented by the Federal Government, well done, although, in some areas, I am right in giving the honourable Member Haselsteiner a little bit of a beautiful color. For example, in the case of insolvency rates, which can be read in the report, but also in the whole area of equity formation was still spoken of as "adequately acceptable sizes". This is probably a pleasant formulation for the government, but the insolvency ratios in 1995 alone in the area mentioned here are certainly so high that we rightly need to talk about a critical situation in Austrian tourism, even though the figures for the 1998 winter season are obviously far better than those for the 1997 summer season. So you can see: We are still discussing the 1996 report, although we should be dealing with completely different problems in the area of tourism. It is also in favour of holding a reasonable, interdisciplinary debate in the Committee. Federal Minister! Perhaps we can make it possible for us to hold a committee meeting which will meet tourism in the way I think it would be reasonable, namely, interdisciplinary. One must try to deal with areas such as transport and specific financial policy, not only the question of capital formation in the area of tourism, but also the tax aspects where the Federal Government could actually do something in the area of tourism, while many other areas are country and regional issues, for example where funding can be used effectively. That's where the federal government can, you might still be able to coordinate. I would be very interested in the form in which you, as the Federal Minister, carried out the coordination in the federal states, where the information comes together with you, how the coordination between you and the federal states and you and the regions works. In particular, issues such as transport policy, spatial planning, financial policy, and in particular tax law, should be dealt with at a committee meeting in a far-reaching and interdisciplinary manner. Maybe then you could be a little more economical with our time here. Very briefly: I therefore believe that tax policy is so important in this area, because, especially in the area of tourism, it becomes apparent once again how necessary it is to ecologize the tax system, how important it would be to tax more resources and finally relieve labour. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This is a point that the Liberals and the Greens are really making in every tourism debate. But we are comforted, comforted, comforted. One last point that I have been aware of in the speech of Mr Puttinger, an area that has a far greater impact on tourism than much that we are discussing here: sport and sports activities. When you spoke, Mr Puttinger – forgive me, please do not be angry with me and do not take it personally – I thought: Her countryman Hermann Maier is probably doing a lot more for Austrian tourism than the Salzburg delegates here at the Tourimus debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11023	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11044	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler! It would be beneficial if the Greens in Salzburg were as good as Hermann Maier. You'd be glad if it did something. We've been finding out lately that there's nothing to do with destruction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today we are discussing the 1996 tourism report, a situation report that shows the weaknesses and also the strengths of the tourism sector in relation to the year 1996. We already have the year 1997 behind us, a year of beginning consolidation, which is becoming increasingly strong. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed and contributed to the joint efforts to solve the problem. Now more light becomes apparent at the end of the tunnel, the forecasts are becoming increasingly better. However, there is a need to make great efforts to make the increase that is coming. That he comes, we feel in practice. Already in the summer half of 1997, there have been increases in innovative regions and communities, including in my community with about 7.9% of the nights, with us aware that the number of nights does not say everything. Details of the bed load are given more. How does the tourism market present itself today? – Travel income continues to grow by 60 percent by the year 2000, the forecasts tell us. In 1996, a total of 550 million trips abroad were made worldwide. The keyword globalisation is largely reality. If the foreign exchange rates fall in Asia and if one sets the Indonesian rupee in relation to schilling – currently 70 percent – the direct effect on destinations in Austria has. In addition, there is a lack of taxation of aviation petrol. If one imagines that a journey around the half-world, i.e. routes of more than 22,000 kilometres, is possible today by less than 10 000 s, then one can see the competitive situation in which the Austrian tourism industry is located. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: But this is the way it is!]] This development can and must be met with quality, but also with cost-effectiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But not too much!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Fair taxation of aviation petrol is long overdue. It is also essential to modernise the Youth Employment Act, which takes account of training and increased competitive pressure. My dear colleagues from the SPÖ! I address to you the question of whether a law prohibiting apprentices from working in summertime from 10 am, although they are urgently needed to secure jobs. Does SPÖ not want to secure jobs in this area? This absurd ban threatens jobs and is certainly not an incentive to recruit apprentices in tourism companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to Wifo, tourism is expected to achieve 3 percent increase in sales in 1998. Revenue in 1997 rose by a good 2 per cent. I am particularly pleased that Austria is increasingly valued as a holiday country. Fortunately, the economy in tourism is running better again. Experts also expect a plus for this winter season. The trend towards destination management is unmistakable. Trends are becoming more and more short-lived. This requires an unmistakable independent offer. More than ever, the guest has to offer an optimal performance and a rounded overall package. In my area, the family holiday is fully on the trend. In this area we can offer unmistakable experiences. Federal Minister! This report is clearly designed and, as far as possible, up-to-date in 1996. Nearly 400 billion Schillings are spent on tourism and leisure in Austria – with a value-added share of the total value of around 14 percent. 37.2 percent of these come from foreigners. It is noteworthy that almost 90 percent of the over 62 percent of the tourism expenditure incurred by Austrians is spent on consumption in the place of residence and during day trips. Travel expenditure increased slightly in 1996 and accounted for 179.6 billion schilling. In 1996, the number of self-employed workers in tourism also increased to about 142 000 people. However, structural problems have led to above-average unemployment in this sector. It is therefore particularly important to enable work and not to hinder it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Labour mobility and flexibility must therefore not be empty, but it must be possible for a Carinthian to work in Salzburg or an Upper Austrian in Burgenland or in Vorarlberg and vice versa. Our Austria is a small but fine country. The EU accession makes us a special domestic destination, and the pooling of our offer will help us to improve our range of products. A key feature is Austria's advertising. In 1996, their 618 million schillings were available. It is gratifying to see the successful reform that reduces fixed costs and increases market use. The high proportion of domestic travel – at least more than 50 percent of Austrians made at least one domestic trip with overnight stays – is pleasing. Nevertheless, it is necessary to oppose and apply for its own destination to the well-communicated range of cheap long-distance travels. Our strategy must be an essential part of it. Local associations must join forces, pool their resources, for example, in the area of the Hausruck, where seven communities have set up a single association. Finally, it can be said that the serious situation in recent years has been improved by the implementation of important and, above all, correct reforms. These are starting to grab hold of them now. We continue to work together to promote our tourism companies, to secure jobs and to contribute to all our prosperity! My group will therefore be happy to vote in favour of the tourism report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11113	Mr Haigermoser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11143	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! I'm still going to be motivated. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you one of the motivators?]] But first of all to the perfidy accusation of Mr Parnigoni's colleague, Mr Parnigoni. "Marie with marketing despite sparbudgets – a controversial dream for Mr Höferer." - According to "profile". Federal Minister! They were concerned with this story. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haigermoser, do you think? If you think so, your party leader will love you! If you don't think he doesn't love you!]] In fact, the perfidious accusation should be addressed to you, because I am aware that you or the members of the tourist associations are criticizing the Gage of Director-General Michael Höferer, who, despite the acute shortage of money of his association, has been approved of a juicy gage increase. In the same breath – this is Perfidie, ladies and gentlemen – it has been said that the secretary – courtesian has granted it – is not granted a salary increase because of the prescribed savings price. This is perfid, ladies and gentlemen, that you take away the money from the little ones, and the big ones put it in their bag. That's perfidy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the tourism report. Federal Minister! We have already heard that he is behind the circumstances. It is, however, a good news – I am referring to the discussion that we were able to hold in the ministry with all the political groups, except the LIF, which was shining by absence, – that we have agreed to the SME report that it will come into the house in the future, faster, more streamlined and more focused on issues. That's a good news. We thank you for your willingness, because the previous ritual – which we have found – is not suitable for mentioning things by name. Federal Minister! The fact is, however, that the capital base – which has been unisonoly established – is a disaster. As a result, declining investments are taking place. And with that, the cycle closes. Let's just hold on to one figure: The so-called decommissioning period has increased from 11 to more than 20 years in the four- to five-star categories since 1992. This is a disaster, ladies and gentlemen. But this is just an example of the numerical material you have presented to us. What is the answer, Mr. Federal Minister? What options do you now offer in your overall responsibility for tourism? I do not even want to refer to the not just blessed activity of the former Secretary of State for Tourism Fekter, who has born the idea of the century, namely, when entering Austria, to pay a tax, i.e. admission fee. They managed to do similar things with the vignette. There is a difference, ladies and gentlemen, but it was made according to the motto "Tausche Vignettetman versus Ötzi". One we give to South Tyrol, and the other, the Vignettetman, you have now set up at the border. Federal Minister! It's not a milestone. One should not only swirl up dust in politics – that has once told me a failed human being – but also leave traces from time to time, but not those like you in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The competence jungle is literally in this area. Everyone's talking about the other. The countries are to blame. The Federal Minister says: I can't do anything, I'm the Pontius Pilate and the innocent angel from the land anyway, my hands are bound. Finally, do you realize the state reform or at least a tourism reform, Mr. Federal Minister! Start right now! Where is your voice in the field of debureaucratisation? Where is your loud voice, the pressing voice to improve something? Or just listen to the government administrators in the banks of the "unity party SPÖ and ÖVP", who are swinging the incense boiler here and saying: It's all palleti, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Mr Puttinger! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Unity Party! That's so bad!]] Request, demand, demand, you have said. I wish you good luck, colleague Puttinger! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: New vocabulary!]] The Chamber of Commerce has questioned 5 000 establishments. What do they demand? – The firms wish themselves from the Chamber of Commerce, as a Member of Parliament, to help you reduce the additional wage costs. [[Abg. Böhacker: The plants!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: With the solution proposal!]] 94 percent say that. You should help cut red tape. The tax on beverages is to be abolished, with 94 percent. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? - It's over! That's the only one. Our brochure will need a few more pages to document your crashers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] I really wish you luck. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You're doing bad already, gal?]] Mr. Drinkl! At the next assembly of the 5,000 hosts, not so many wet fetters can be dragged into the hall needed to drive you out. Ladies and gentlemen! The many wet cunts are not needed by us, but by your forced members, whose desires you do not fulfill. While you preach wine at Sunday's speeches, you fall down here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever carries a workers' protection law as a fig leaf for a failing socialist health policy has lost every right to tell the citizen that he would stand for red tape. Now I'm coming to the motivation that was addressed today. Where's Mr. Klubobmann A. Khol? A. Khol, where is he? – Probably he will meet with G. stupid to make peace with the economy again, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: Even if I had never been motivated, today's debate, today's debates in the Socialist Unity Coalition would have motivated me. I am as motivated as never before, the cardiac blood is pecking in me, when I think of being able to bring the message of the failure of this socialist coalition government to the people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will wonder already on Sunday in Graz, you will experience your blue miracle, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Watch out!]] You will experience your blue miracle! Good luck in this field. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You're waiting for a blue miracle!]] Federal Minister! At the electricity price. The Federal Government also has the obligation to consider, in addition to providing lower electricity prices, the industry. As Minister of Energy, they have been called upon to provide significantly lower electricity prices to the small and medium-sized industries. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Is it true that Haider is looking for a post today?]] This is a request before. We are curious about whether you will comply with this and whether you are willing to put all your weight on the rails as Minister of State, in order to achieve a electricity solution that does not mean sales abroad, but that the commercial economy, tourism, energy prices are provided so that they can survive in the harder market, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You're one of the few who's motivated!]] These are demands that are in addition to many others in the room. In order to be motivated by the Freedom Party, you need not worry at all. After all, we have a party observer who can appear at any breakfast as different from you, because he does not enter such fat cups as Mr. Schüssel in Amsterdam with his statement "The Right Sau". We also reject this statement from this pult to the most decisive, because this has caused serious damage to the reputation of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11357	I call Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11378	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Haigermoser and others on topicality. In this respect, we have already gotten a little better. I hope the SME report will be even more up-to-date. Therefore, although we are discussing the 1996 report, I would like to work with figures from 1997 because, apart from minor differences, the trend has not changed substantially. The latest figures from the 1998 National Bank Report for 1997 show that we have to expect a fall in the revenue from tourism. In the period January to November, the surplus from the travel balance has been reduced by 4 billion schilling compared to the previous year. Of course, this also reduces the traditional relief effect of the travel balance on the current account. I will come later because Mr Hazelsteiner has made an effort to address the issue of current account balance. Although revenue in tourism has increased slightly by 3 percent, on the other hand, expenditure – Mr Ellmauer pointed out – has increased by 7 percent. Austria is a classical tourist country, we know, and the importance of tourism for Austria is particularly evident within the EU. The revenue of guests from EU countries amounted to 114 billion schilling in 1996. This amount represents at least 29 percent of the total revenue from trade in goods with the European Union. Like other classical holiday countries, we naturally have to expect international development. That is why I do not think it would be useful to complain about it. This is a development that we can only counter internally. What, though, do we think we can do primarily? Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the statistics, one thing needs to be noted: From 1992 to 1997 it can be seen that utilization in the four- and five-star categories remains roughly the same. In the three-star category, it has worsened slightly, and the utilization of the one- and two-star operations has worsened dramatically. What does that mean? – I am sure that Mr Haselsteiner’s criticism here is not unwarranted, Mr Minister, when he says that the business perspective is left a little out of focus. You have to look at that too. What causes does it have? – It can not only be that urban tourism benefits the four- and five-star hotels. I believe that this has to be done in the field of qualitative offers, whether these are infrastructure facilities, whether they are those there – therefore better training is recommended – whether the question of offer, keyword event and so on are. All of these are things that must be examined if we are to offer offers here seriously on the business side. Then you can think about whether this is out of discussion. We must do this, we must try to improve the capital situation of businesses. That's a must. This must be done in the context of the next tax reform. Anything else, the around-why, the demand really doesn't do anything. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, productivity increases mean quality. In this context, I would just like to point out an example which shows that not everything is in the same trend, namely the Vienna example: In 1997 there were around 19,300 jobs in tourism in Vienna – you hear and marvel – more than 1982. This employment dynamics reflects the strong upturn in urban tourism and the development of leisure society. The number of employees increased by 137.4 percent. This means that we cannot generally say that tourism has a negative impact on employment policy. Vienna is a model example of this, but there are still a few other punctual situations on the basis of which we see where the lever can be used and what can be done. I've been talking about the training. There's a lot going on. The topic of the implementation of the technical universities is well known. I am convinced that this will have an impact on the employment situation in the short term. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief point, namely the shadow economy. I've got some recent data here. Kepler University's latest surveys show that in 1997 the increase is expected to amount to an estimated 220 billion schillings. What does that mean? . I would like to explain this only on the basis of two positions, ladies and gentlemen. VAT is not included in the budget in this kind of 44 billion schilling, in social security contributions 18 billion schilling. I leave everything else away, only these two positions show what potential exists here and that we have no doubt to do much more rigid and more rigorous. The current account still contains two sets: In principle, I share Mr Haselsteiner's concern, but you have to see it a little more clearly. If the main cause of our current account deficit were a structural cause, I would say that all the alarm bells would have to ring. In fact, however, it is true that not only the changes in the travel balance play a major role. Over the last two years, we have had to expect the cost of the single payment in the course of EU accession, and on the other hand, we are very positive – we have heard it this morning – the fantastic development in the export sector. If we can establish a link here, I am convinced that the current account will have to be managed within a few years. Overall, I am not talking about crisis, but I think we are concerned about how the development continues. Although there is a positive trend at present, we should focus on quality tourism and some of the business aspects of our policy, because then within the next two or three years the situation will be re-examined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11445	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. They're talking from the square. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11466	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been listening to the debate on the tourism report for more than an hour, and I note that the debate on this report goes beyond the interests of tourists. We do not need to be ashamed and say that tourism is sinking, there will be fewer and fewer people coming to us, the Austrians are going abroad and we have the disaster because we no longer have the tourists. Minister! This situation is homemade because it is no longer possible for a family of five or six to make a holiday in Austria. It's not financially feasible. It's just cheaper if I get on the train or on the plane today and go abroad. There I get for my money the double of what is offered in Austria. Minister! They have completely recognized that there are a lot of people in Austria who would like to make vacations in Austria, but there is simply no offer. They have forgotten that in Austria there is the situation that more and more people are retired earlier, that more and more people are getting older, that more and more people are disabled, and that these groups are often unable to make a vacation abroad because they are not physically making it. They would very much like to spend their holidays in Austria if only the offer were to vote. It is not possible to go somewhere as a dialysis patient in Austria and take a vacation because there is no way to get dialysis in the resort. In Austria, it is a skewer run if you want to go on holiday as a wheelchair driver or wheelchair driver. There is no possibility of overnight stay, and even less there is a possibility of transfer from the station to the hotel or to the nearest city. As long as you are not prepared to expand the cooperation and coordination in such a way as to ensure that both the public transport of passengers and the offer of hoteliers are consistent, you will not reach these target groups for as long as possible. It has already been said several times today that we must try to keep the domestic tourists in Austria. We have to try to get our hands on tourism. Minister! We must try to get the tourists under the arms to make a holiday possible for them in Austria. It is impossible to go somewhere today if you pay for a bottle of mineral water 120 S in the gastronomy or if you already have to pay 30 to 50 s for the refrigerator bag at the bathing area. This is where tourism in Austria stops! That just doesn't want to and can't afford anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! There's another thing to do: They're talking about tourism. We currently have a good winter tourism, and I believe that even our athletes in the discipline of departure will increase the numbers in tourism. But one thing you must not forget: You must not put our landscape and our ecology at risk in the interests of tourism. What does it do if, for example, snow cannons fill the ski resorts with ice and snow in the area of the Attersee and then the vegetation is broken in the summer, so that there is no longer even the possibility to take a walk there? I believe that we must take the path of gentle tourism in Austria, and we must be prepared to create a target group-oriented tourism offer. It is only if this succeeds that there is also the possibility that Mr and Mrs Österreicher will no longer be able to make a low-cost holiday abroad, but will find recovery in Austria at affordable prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11523	Another point of order is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11545	Minister! Mr President. Much has already been said about tourism today, and the statements were very moderate by everyone – with few exceptions. This shows, of course, that it is going up again in the tourism sector. I am in good company with the Minister who meant that we are at a turning point in the tourism sector. It plays a lot of factors with it. The fact is that the globalisation of tourism is moving forward, that, in the face of a well-organised destination worldwide, we also need to strengthen our requirements regionally. Nevertheless, I would like to note that Austria is one of the most tourism-intensive countries, and Austria will continue to maintain this status in the future. I'm sure of that. But the question arises: According to what criteria do I measure tourism – nights, arrivals, purchasing power, turnover? – If I look at these criteria, I think sales are still a very meaningful criterion. As far as 1995 is concerned, we are very likely to see an increase. That must also be said. I am not of the opinion of Mrs Haidlmayr, who said that the burglaries were homemade. I'm sure that's not true. There were very many factors: the eastern opening, the German reunification, of course also the overvaluation of the lira at that time. – Nevertheless, I believe we need to work hard on ourselves, not to be sick, but to eliminate the deficits and set the framework conditions. Under conditions, I understand not only the tax side, but also those of supply, in the cultural field, in entertainment. It is no coincidence that there are some positive points in urban tourism, because there is a compact offer. As a little mayor, let me say one thing: What we need is concentration on compact tourism regions. This cannot be decreed, it cannot be ordered by a minister, but it must be done from below, and there are also the mayors required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also demonstrated by the study on the importance and future of regional tourism organisations. The best example, Mr. Minister, is the Burgenland, the Neusiedler-See region. That's where we made it – that's not about regulation, but only because of many small conversations – that we've gathered together around the Neusiedler See to a tourist region, to a GesmbH. We're trying to act together. I think this must be said very consciously here too: We are all required, not just the Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is also true, Mr Minister, that you are trying not to expand the capacity of beds in advanced tourist regions, but to introduce qualitative standards – away from the two-star categories to three- and four-star categories. All in all, I think: The approaches are correct, we should support the Federal Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11611	Next word: Mr Blünegger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11632	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The decline in local tourism from 1995 to 1996 can in fact be documented in the form of this report. The 1995 report was still a jubilee brochure with 111 pages on tourism. Today we are discussing the 1996 report, which has only 78 pages. This actually reflects the state of today's tourism and the leisure industry. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is agreed with you!]] Once again – Mr Puttinger, I am still speaking to you – we really do not need a jubilation brochure, because the seriousness of the situation of local tourism is predominate. This industry suffers from the bad base offered, mainly by the Federal Government or, as you can say, by the "SPÖ/ÖVP unit party". [[Call the ÖVP:A new vocabulary!]] Mr Steindl believed that it was only possible to speak with joy about this report, but one can also read from this report that there is still something to be realized. It is contained in it, as I give the Minister of State the right to the Minister of State if he finds this in this brochure, that the capital resources of the enterprises are disastrous. This can be read from page 16 of this report. It also says that the economic situation of the hotel industry is very vulnerable because there is no equity. Similarly, it is a long-standing demand on our part to promote equity capital. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Federal Minister! They are quite right to see that the ruling tax system is seriously detrimental to tourism. You have listed exactly what it is all about on page 21 of this report. I'd like to quote one or the other. The ruling tax system disadvantages the highly represented individual companies and companies in tourism. In addition, cost pressure and utilization problems prevent potential capital formation. – With such sentences, we can befriend and defend liberals. But it is also confirmed that this Federal Government has completely failed to create an economic-friendly environment in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalitionary unity party! This federal government has done everything in recent years to financially starve the tourism industry. At the latest when the euro is introduced, there is a direct price comparison, ladies and gentlemen. Drinks of the same variety will be 22 percent more expensive in Austria than in the comparable EU countries. Austria is also no longer competitive in the service sector. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who says that?]] – According to Nielsen study, this is true in tourism. 33 percent of entrepreneurs indicate that sales are stagnating, and 40 percent are talking about a decline in sales. I believe that these farms are in a vicious circle, but they will only be helped if actual improvements and better conditions are put in place for tourism. Not only do we liberals demand friendly conditions for the economic factor tourism. The gastronomy itself also proves it by its meeting in Innsbruck in October 1997. We liberals want tourism-friendly conditions, we want a general reduction in VAT and an adjustment of working hours to the actual conditions. We also want to introduce aliquota holiday entitlements and a Europe-wide tax harmonisation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What does that mean?]] The good approaches in this report are to be done, but unfortunately we cannot accept this report under these conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11719	Mr Farnleitner has spoken on behalf of the Federal Minister. At 3 p.m. I must interrupt to call for urgent inquiry. It'll stay about 3 minutes now. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11740	Mr President. High house! First of all, on the nature of the report: We have limited this report on wish and in discussion with Members to priority issues and set new priorities. We are doing the same with the SME report, and we will do the same with the next tourism report. I take note – we will certainly invite representatives of each party represented here – of the priorities for the next report. We delivered the report in August 1997. The fact that he is only being discussed today is not to be held responsible by the ministry. Second point: To the tourism situation itself. When it comes fat, it'll be pretty thick. We have two quite opposite trends, and we both feel right now. One part was: We have a change in world tourism, we have a greater pleasure of travel, we have a complete change in price conditions, destinations, language skills and and so on. The second trend: We see that within existing tourism there are completely new shifts in focus: from summer to winter, from early summer and main summer to late summer, from rural tourism to urban tourism, cultural tourism, event tourism. If several such movements take place at the same time in a few years, I can imagine that it must be difficult for many to make the right decisions microeconomically. Third point: If we note that tourism has been talking for too long about its macroeconomic merits and has not been placed on the business side, we can see that there are many earlier reports to prove this. Tourism has nothing to do with contributing to balance of payments. Tourism has nothing of it if the number of nights increases. I can show you a curve – perhaps in the next report if you want –: The catastrophe of Austrian tourism has already begun in the good years. There can be a clear parallelity of debt rates and an increase in netting rates. That means we've had record numbers and record non-returns at the same time. That's not something that happened now, just because the nights are going back. Therefore, the future belongs to the micro-economic, business-oriented view of tourism policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The report clearly shows that the financial situation of many tourism companies is simple and simply horrifying. I have therefore said from the first day that the financial restructuring must be the task of the hour. Therefore, today the Austrian Hotel Trustee Hand is working on changing the financing structure of the companies as a restructuring bank. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am horrified at how few applications come despite all advertising. I spoke to the economic fidelity and said that you would have to invite the businesses. Whoever now has high interest rates and does not re-debt himself is guilty. That it doesn't make the housebank of its own accord, I understand. But that's an important point. Next point: We have to bring the companies to this – to that end, there will be the "Tourism Check" action – that they also care for themselves whether guests come to them, and do not wait for anyone to knock at their door by chance. The role of many organisations and of many institutions must therefore be questioned. In the Federal Council I allowed myself to joke that in Austria it is at least as difficult to merge two energy companies as two tourism associations. Next point: In any case, we must ensure that the framework conditions continue to change. In the very next few years, about 50 percent of the tourism companies that are family businesses are handed over, so the tax neutrality of farm transfers is a very important point. . I am at the end, Mr President; I stop after point three. I can't go into detail now on a lot of things that have been brought in here, I don't want to delay the session either, but I would encourage: At the invitation of the clubs to prepare the next tourism report, I ask you to submit to us those topics that are of particular interest to you, so that we can then, together, put them in the next report in good time. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11809	Thank you many times, Minister of State. I am now interrupting, at 3 p.m., the negotiations on the agenda so that we can start dealing with the urgent question. Request for urgent procedure by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund comrades to the Federal Chancellor on the implementation of the demands of the genetic engineering, women and animal protection people (3522/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e11843	The urgent request has been distributed in writing in the house. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12011	According to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Dr Petrovic, spoke in order to justify the urgent question. The speaking time in this context must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12032	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Parliament Club has made this urgent request concerning the three so successful popular desires of the last months to learn from the Federal Chancellor, the head of the Federal Government, how he personally intends to continue to address these concerns in his role as coordinator of government policy, which impulses he can expect. We all know that these popular desires have been under negotiation here in Parliament for some time, but from the point of view of the contributors, they have so far been completely inadequately treated. There have so far been protests, demonstrations, exclaims of women, exclaims of the genocritical initiatives and massive criticisms of the animal protectionists, but no substantial improvement has yet occurred in any single point of all three popular desires in the sense of the suggestions of these popular desires. And my fear today is that not only the initiators of these popular desires, but also the many, the hundreds of thousands of people who have supported these popular desires, have now despaired at the state of democracy in Austria. In fact, direct democracy in Austria is far less pronounced and trained than in our neighbouring country Switzerland, and there is an intensive discussion about how far it is desirable or desirable to expand direct democracy, but one, ladies and gentlemen, is actually not going: We cannot claim that indirect democracy is able to take the problems of the population seriously, take them up and implement appropriate solutions, so there is no need for a stronger expression of direct democracy if we are to deal with such successful people's desires as has been the case so far. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Chancellor! The often mentioned political starkness of the population results very strongly from this behaviour of the government, it is far more of a government policy obscurity. At the time, as the head of government of this great coalition, you have come up with an attempt to tackle the big open questions and, by your strong majority in this House, quickly come up with appropriate solutions through your two-thirds majority. I ask you today: How does this look in the three areas? What did you really do? And I would also like to ask you beyond the text of the question: What will happen to other concerns that we already see coming to the High House? About the question of dealing with weapons? The question of road safety has been raised, and I think you will probably agree that the process of the government parties in the road transport issue was anything but to strengthen the confidence in the policy and the capacity of this government to act. If we do so on all these issues and if there is always a need for major damage and disasters until something is finally moving, then, I believe, Federal Chancellor, this government is responsible for people's rightfully turning away from politics as a whole. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we look at the three subjects and the main demands of these peoples, they will of course all come into play on the question of the rights or the design of the possibilities of direct democracy in Austria. It is no coincidence for me that these three successful peoples have now come together on a platform and in a very moderate way demand an improvement in the opportunities for popular desire. They require a reduction in the age limit. The youth should be able to talk about people aged 15 and over, because it is above all about their future, and I think that is a legitimate demand. They require a share of the costs. The political parties are getting money to cope with their work, and there is no question – I think we all stand by it – that indirect democracy also costs money. Then please also have the same right for the citizens in Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mother.]] They require an acceleration of the procedures. They call for a general public of the committees, for the involvement of the initiators in the negotiations of the results and for a communication of the results in order to quickly open up possible further steps for the population. [[Abg. Smoke-callat: Then you must also be ready to do it!]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat! I would like to make a very detailed point on this question. This also has to do with your presidency – and not little. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These popular desires do not expressly demand - and in so far as I really consider this catalogue of demands to be very important - that a successful popular desire, which is not achieved positively by Parliament, should be subject to a referendum. I think that this proves in itself how much these proponents still trust that the House and the government take the demands seriously. That is why it is high time you, as the head of this coalition government, once made a personal position here! Federal Chancellor! I'll start with the genetic engineering folk desire. Here it was so, Mrs. President of the Special Committee has just mentioned it in the context of an interlocutory call, that the promoters initially withdrew from this committee. I ask you personally, Mr Bundeskanzler – we have mentioned it in this urgent question –: What do you think about the way in which we sit in the committee, listen to experts, while in a side room of the chief lobbyist of the gene companies in Austria, Dr. Zacherl, we sit with the ministers and base a motion for a resolution that is completely without any statement? This is a process which I think should be taken into account by all Members of this House, because it devalues the work of the committees, but also devalues the expertise of the experts, for it seems that they can speak for the walls, Mrs Rauch-Kallat. I don't know how many experts the ÖVP still needs to say: It's dangerous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is more dangerous than we have initially assumed, than we have probably all assumed. There has also been a minimum of talk by EIA politicians, because we have, as has been said, only discussed minimum requirements in this committee. It was no longer the whole range of demands for discussion, because, even by the behaviour of your MEPs in Brussels, you have already overtaken a good part of these demands with a bad reality. Mrs Rauch-Kallat! I strongly ask you what you think if more or less of the experts tell you that the potential for danger has been mis-estimated when, in all the brand-new publications in "New Scientist", in the "Financial Times" – truly not necessarily Boulevard leaves – the talk is of superaggressive pathogens that may be provoked by the implanted resistance genes, of the first flops that have occurred, of dangers that have been updated in reality, of gene seed that has crossed out. We have always been assured that this will not be possible. All this happened! Once again, the experts in the committee have said that the potential for danger is great – but what has happened anyway? There were appeals from the Minister of Consumer Protection to the industry, but please do not do so, but the dear industry, which was on a lobby tour with the ÖVP ministers, has not adhered to it. But it was not the Federal Government, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who forced the industry to relinquish, but it was the massive protests of the population. I am very glad that this request is apparently so badly formulated formulated and so badly justified that it has to be formally rejected – for these reasons it has now been withdrawn – only the rule of law remains absolutely unsatisfactory. The company has expressly said that it is withdrawing its application. They can be sure that these groups will wait again for a very favourable time from their point of view – one will try to catch some holiday period again – and they hope that sometime the protests will become weaker. And this is still in the case of the cornpod who in Austria – as I take away serious publications – does not fall into any weight in quantitative terms as a problem at all. That is to say, one wants to congratulate the population on something that it does not want, what is bad for consumers, what is dangerous to the environment and what is fatal and devastating for the small and medium-sized structure in Austria. Second example: Women's people's desires. Federal Chancellor! They have, of course, made an initiative in favour of the apprentices, but what happened when the women tried to reach the same right – it was contained in popular desire, the demand was renewed – that at least if the public authorities promote businesses when it comes to public contracts, be careful to ensure that, preferably, businesses that take it seriously with equal rights of women? – The ÖVP has once again said: Everyone could come! Of course, every woman could and should come because the women in Austria are discriminated against! But the claim has been rejected. Once more! There are still many committees to be held, but I really ask you: Is it not, in fact, the goal of saving oneself over the legislative period and actually not meeting any of these demands? Third example: Animal welfare desires. You know, there are four parties in this house that – and I have heard your support personally from your mouth – are for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. So four political groups in this House want this, but the ÖVP says no. And I'm asking you: What is the response of the strongest group in this House? The SPÖ has received a large amount of confidence in the 1995 elections. At the time you also argued that you want to prevent a conservative coalition in Austria, you argued that a strengthened SPÖ would be better able to implement the concerns of the population. But if the smaller coalition partner says in all important concerns that he doesn't want to, and then it doesn't happen, then I ask you: How do you deal with this advance of confidence from the 1995 elections? I think the voters of the SPÖ did not give this party confidence at the time, so that in principle they can express their opinion on papers, which are then in the drawers, but so that you can implement them. You are in the government and not in opposition, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to agricultural farming, the ÖVP has assured us: We do not need a federal animal welfare law, there is enough agreement between the Austrian federal states. Today the Green Report was discussed here and it proves that this procedure was wrong. The small farms die, people get hurt, jobs are destroyed. The stock levels are rising, and animal welfare is literally included in the wheels, including transport. And now, just before the last committee, literally hours before the last committee on animal welfare in the Constitutional Committee, the ÖVP comes back with a paper of the national leaders concerning a 15a agreement on non-agricultural animal husbandry. And I also ask you, as a person I've always believed in, he's interested in animal welfare: How can you deal with it? Should that really be the only answer by 1999? Should not even such minimal requirements be met that barbaric and animal-poverty actions such as the cutting of vocal cords, the coupling of ears and tails are prohibited without exception? The trapping site is not prohibited, and anything that is otherwise considered animal husbandry can take place in the field of farm animal husbandry at all. It is a fact that there is a categoric ban for circus animals to keep whales, giant slides and claws in circuses and to show that there are exceptions everywhere for the animals that are de facto, namely tigers, lions, elephants, camels. That is, everything that happens in reality can continue to happen after this 15a agreement. The Länder may also terminate this agreement. And as the execution looks out, you know that, Federal Chancellor! I come to the conclusion, and for me it is a very bad suspicion of democracy. I also think that the strongest group in this House is that the SPÖ and you, as the head of government, have no real interest in the fact that there is something going on in these materials. For I already ask you all the serious – and I will not be the only one who has this impression: Why is the SPÖ – also against the adversarial coalition partners – able, when it comes to power-political interests, such as the question of Bank Austria, to prevail in intense negotiations, in conflicts that go to the brink of the coalition question? When it comes to posts, when it comes to money, when it comes to influence – you are putting your role as the strongest government group into the balance scale, that is what you are going to do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But when it comes to direct democracy, when it comes to the burning concerns of the population, when it comes to the issue of equal opportunities for women, the question of the rejection of genetic engineering in agriculture and food, of better animal protection for all animals in Austria, I have the impression that you have issued a motto by 1999 called "permanent election". They produce nice papers and demonstrate on every occasion Your personal interest, but you actually have a premise that nothing will happen by 1999. Because then you will go to the election campaign with these topics and can say: We'd love to, but they won't let us. Please, dear voters and voters, make us even stronger, because then we can do something! And the ÖVP will say to your lobby: We are the guarantees that nothing will go on in these materials! Federal Chancellor! In any case, you have to answer a question in this regard. If even in the matter of materials, in which four political groups in this House are in favour of this House, it is not possible to carry on, if, in this constellation, it seems not to be desirable that something goes on, how should in 1999 change anything? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12122	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12137	I ask you, Federal Chancellor: How many ten thousand, how many millions of signatures, how many people on the ring road do you need until you finally act?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12168	Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Chancellor is now speaking. Mr Bundeskanzler, the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12189	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Allow me to begin by clarifying two things which I have the impression that they are to be heard out of your explanatory statement. First of all: I think you have made a very subtle attempt to sow discord in the government coalition. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: dog and cat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians have, in my opinion, rightly seen that this government coalition is not disputed, but is working together for our country Austria! We won't let that happen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: You don't believe that!]] Secondly, In my opinion, honourable Mrs Petrovic, popular desire is an essential forum for the creation and vigor of human will in our country. Mostly, even if not always successful, the proponents and supporters of popular desires have kept themselves from being party-politically absorbed. I warn against damaging this important instrument of democracy by trying to take up its party policy. We shouldn't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In fact, it is only the task of discussing the results of this democratic process in a matter of fact in the bodies and bodies responsible for it and of developing solutions within the meaning of our representative democracy. For the citizens rightly expect solutions and not party-political hack. However, for the time being, the demands of the Direct Democracy initiative are only known to me from the media. I can only tell you that my party – but I assume, as well as anyone who is serious about democracy – will support reform proposals aimed at faster, better and more easily understood parliamentary treatment, because such proposals are welcome. I can't see any contradiction. However, I would ask you to understand that, as a body for the implementation of all the reforms of the parliamentary process and legislation, I cannot presuppose myself. To the chapters you have edited, from genetic engineering to women's policy to animal welfare: I think it is important that we in Austria, with our commitment that we cannot win the competition for work, by trying to compete cheaply, but only by striving to compete with the better, at the same time to be open to research and new technologies in our country in principle and to support them. They know that there are also important fields of application of genetic engineering in which the opportunities for humans are so great - for example in the field of medicine - that they need to be supported accordingly. [[Abg. Wabl: No one has anything against it! No one has disputed that!]] However, there are also areas of application where risks are far above the added value. [[Abg. Wabl: Right! That's where we're full of you, Federal Chancellor!]] There is a need for great caution, particularly in the field of agriculture and food. I think that we have the framework conditions, in accordance with our principle, that every technology must be assessed according to its benefits for people. [[Abg. Wabl: At that time we did this in the field of nuclear technology, together with the SPÖ!]] It is about making decisions which allow people to take advantage of the opportunities and minimize the risks. The best way to ensure safety for consumers, including through complete labelling within the European Union, comprehensive information for the population and the involvement of the relevant scientific bodies and bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that the Federal Minister responsible, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer, at this very moment on important discussions in the field of genetic engineering in Brussels, in order to operate active lobbying for the Austrian positions with the relevant Commissioners. This is particularly about the continuation of our efforts in the field of the labelling of genetically modified foods, the Austrian ban on imports of genetically modified maize and the Austrian demand for the amendment of the European Union Release Directive. They know that the Austrian Federal Government - and Mrs Prammer in particular - has repeatedly been committed to supporting the objectives of the genetic engineering people's desire and also to implementing the measures envisaged in the field of European regulations. On question 2: I can clearly and clearly answer you to the release moratorium that a principle release moratorium is not possible due to the existing European legal standards, as you know. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's not true!]] We never proposed an X for a U, but we have always said this stunned and clear. However, we must ensure, through a strict examination of requests made on a case-by-case basis, that the greatest possible safety of human health and the environment in relation to the specific Austrian circumstances – such as our Austrian ecosystem – is ensured. In addition, there have been discussions with the companies concerned both on the part of the Ministry of Consumer Protection and on my part, with the aim of relinquishing releases for so long until the necessary legal regulations in our country – for example, on issues of liability, the position of parties and so on – are taken accordingly. We need a high level of safety for consumers as well as for businesses. Question 3: I can easily answer the question of party status with yes. The amendment to the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act, which is currently under review, already provides for such a regulation. I assume that you are aware of this draft law. Question 4: A clear yes to the balanced appointment of the committees. The amendment to the Austrian genetic engineering law provides for such a regulation. It provides for an increased involvement of experts with scientific competence to assess the environmental impact of releases and the sowing of genetically modified organisms. Question 5: As far as the nomination right of the Forum of Austrian Scientists for Environmental Protection is concerned, the members of this forum are certainly perfectly suited to the assessment of environmental issues and thus fulfil the criteria set out in point four. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the draft amendment already provides for additional nomination rights for this forum. On question 6: The Austrian Genetic Engineering Act includes all relevant EU legal requirements. Already, country-specific concerns have been taken into account in previous procedures, and the planned innovation of the Genetic Engineering Act provides for the EIA-related criteria – such as party position, citizen participation and so on. The second theme: Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is undisputed – and you know that too – that the Federal Government has made the question of the further development of women's policy one of its priorities in 1998. For it is clear that it is pleasing and thanks to the vast majority of women, even all women wish for a self-determined life – possibly also by self-earned income – in which they want to reconcile work and family. We must ensure that our society is modernized in a human and socially just way. Equality between men and women is a central element of this policy of the Federal Government, and we will not get rid of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is widespread ideological agreement in this area, because equality is largely accepted. However, we know that reality often still depends on a generation, and that is why it is important – to do so too – that we support the essential principles and objectives of the women's people's desire, even if we do not always agree with the way there. That too must be said openly. We want the social conditions to develop in such a way that women can stand on their own feet. It must be possible for women to reach their living standards independently. You know that the Minister for Women has already drawn up a White Paper on this subject. It is one of our main priorities in 1998 to try to achieve equal opportunities between women and men through concrete developments, for example through the impulse of childcare facilities. They know that many women, who want to reconcile work and family, this is still very, very difficult to do today. Consider the liberalisation of shop opening times or the flexibility of working hours: What is useful is that the kindergartens have been opened from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. when women have to bear the burden or have no chance of working. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Opening hours from 8 to 12 and from 2 to 4 o'clock!]] Therefore, for the first time two years ago, we have planned 600 million schilling for joint actions with the relevant countries for more childcare facilities, and in the meantime over 16 000 such facilities have already been created or started to be established. This will be done specifically for more equal opportunities between women and men! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also know that, in the context of the discussion on family support, we demand another 600 million schilling by the federal government – plus country share there are 1.2 billion schilling – for childcare facilities. The government will act together in this respect because it is a matter of giving women the opportunity to reconcile work and family with each other in a tolerable way. Secondly, The Federal Government has decided to draw up women's promotion plans in each department as a model or pioneer. I would like to say quite frankly to you that I do not just want to do this on an internal arrangement or on the way of leaving, but I will propose that all the ministers of the Social Democratic Party be prepared to do so, and I assume that the colleagues of the EIA will also be prepared to implement these women's promotion plans by means of a regulation, i.e. one that is unacceptable, within the Federal Government. So a concrete step for women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out that this is not just a question of speaking. Since I was Federal Chancellor, four women have been appointed to lead sections. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have two women alone in the Federal Chancellery, who are responsible for the leadership of a section. You could pass, too, because that is, I think, really something positive! Or? [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] On your specific questions, first on question 7: On this point, the government has already set up concrete activities. In the autumn of 1997, the Minister for Women carried out a survey on public procurement as an instrument for the promotion of women. National and international experts have dealt with the legal issues of this request or with existing foreign models of occupational women's promotion. I suppose you already know the Brandenburg model. It has been shown that there is also an interest on the part of businesses in implementing women's promotion measures, but it is necessary to provide useful support for the preparation of women's promotion plans. That is why we are planning a follow-up event in the coming spring, which will focus on the concrete design of efficient and feasible women's promotion plans in businesses. In 1998, social partners will also be invited to discuss a major innovation in the Constitutional Labour Act, which will bring about the necessary adaptation of occupational participation to a modified work organisation towards greater equal opportunities for women. The aim of this amendment is also to strengthen the legal framework for the establishment of measures for the promotion of women in the workplace, as well as measures to improve the compatibility of care obligations and the professional activity of workers. We think – and I hope – that, like the commitment of public procurement to apprenticeship promotion, the gender balance of promotion, i.e. the increased promotion of girls in future apprenticeships, will also be taken into account accordingly. I am fully convinced that Austrian companies cannot afford to abandon the creativity, commitment and qualification of half of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am confident that an incentive system such as the Brandenburg model will be adopted by Austrian companies. Question 8: Staff members of the Constitutional Court of Justice. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be a secret vote today on the question of who is to be entrusted with the written function. I am sure that all the questions you have raised will be taken into account in the decision. I have already reported on my actions at the Federal Chancellery. For the two sections I had to order, two women were appointed. On the question 9: Minimum income. I am very proud to have for the first time appointed a Social Democratic Minister for the huge area of work and social affairs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as by Mr Tichy-Schreder and Mr Rosemarie Bauer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Suggested, Federal Chancellor, she ordered the President of the Federal Republic!]] Suggested. Excuse me, you're right! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The first one we were with the Rehor!]] That's why I also said "social democrat." On the question 9: This is a fundamental discussion where I believe you are different from the majority of Austrian politicians. We are of the opinion - and I am also very clear to the speakers of the women's people's desire - that in Austria collective treaty policy and also minimum collective treaty policy and minimum content policy should be made at the level of the social partners, the collective treaty partner and not at the legal level, and that will continue to be respected, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] I am convinced that this demand for women's people's desire will also be reflected in the awareness of the collective treaty partners, because it is important to support it. I believe that a legal system as proposed here is counterproductive, and I am convinced that the steps taken so far must follow. It is about equal work – not just the same; I am very glad that we set the term "equivalent" in the prohibition of discrimination in 1992 – that there should be no differences in income, as is still the practice today. We know that in the field of training, we have to find and change hidden discrimination at the operational level in the field of certain sectors. The Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs has therefore asked the collective contractual partners who ask the social partners to search through and eliminate collective agreements and distribution agreements for hidden discrimination against women. Question 10: Childcare facilities. In my opening words, I have already noted very strongly that it is crucial for us that women can only participate equally in working life if good childcare facilities are available. The initiative of the federal government I have presented will, I assume, be supported accordingly by you. On the question 11: Anchoring equality in the Constitution: I'll bet you do that. We also want to implement this point – I think it is very important – accordingly. However, as is usual in a democracy, we will still have to find a common opinion on this issue, because there are several political groups in this House who are not of this opinion. Questions 12 to 14: Ladies and gentlemen! You know that this is not a task of the Federal Government at the moment, because it is not in the area of the management of the Federal Government. But you also know that the protection of animals is an important concern for me. It is also a sign of the culture of a country as it deals with the animals. I believe that we have a great political responsibility with the protection of animals, which are also living beings and therefore feel and suffer. I am glad that Today, for example, you will discuss an animal transport law train and, hopefully, you will also decide. This is another step on the way to more animal protection, with which we join the animal transport laws which we have already adopted. I personally agree that there should be a federal animal welfare law, but we must also accept the positions of the other political groups represented in this House, and there must be political persuasion. [[Mr Petrovic and Mr Oellinger: A political group!]] That's it in a democracy! You, Mrs Petrovic, have probably had to take note, within your party, of the fact that your desire alone is not sufficient, but that we must try to find and form the appropriate majority in a democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] We believe that we should continue along this path. As you know, there is an own-initiative proposal from Members Kostelka and comrades, which provides for the creation of a federal competence in animal welfare, i.e. the inclusion of animal welfare in Article 11 of the Federal Constitution, and that, based on this change of competence, there is also a proposal for a comprehensive federal law on the protection of animals by Members Kostelka, Parfuss and comrades. All of this is known to the federal states, and they also know about the political ideas relating to parliamentary deliberations in which they are also involved. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: What have the countries done?]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that I have answered your questions in detail, and I hope that we will go a little further in the area of a federal animal welfare law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12480	Wings Would you like to make a request, Mr Stadler? - Here you go. For business treatment: Deputies Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12501	Mr President. At the beginning of the meeting, you announced that the President of the Federal Government, with the representation of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, may be the Minister for Women. Prammer, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has just referred to us in his long statement that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs is currently staying abroad. I would like to ask you to make a statement, Mr President, whether the President-in-Office has himself appointed a representative of the representative of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12534	Mr Stadler! I have today made known the communications made by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who came to me, in accordance with my obligations and in accordance with the rules of business. I have not received any further representation messages. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She is not represented by anyone!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If you're abroad from the EU, she doesn't need a representation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] Mr Kostelka! You also want to make a request for the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12590	Mr President. I would particularly like to satisfy Mr Stadler's curiosity: The Federal Minister Prammer is in Brussels in the performance of her duties, and due to the new representation arrangements which entered into force in the middle of last year, there is no need for any representation within the territory of the European Union for stays abroad, which is approved by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12623	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for answering the urgent question. We are going into the debate in which no speaker or speaker is allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes. Mrs Langthaler is the first to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12656	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! I would like to come back to the real issue. The question of representational arrangements may be the subject of government elsewhere. It's about something more important to us. Federal Chancellor! We Greens are not trying to abuse the three popular desires for party political purposes, as you have meant. We are concerned with taking seriously the concerns of many people who have articulated themselves in it and the role and role of this Parliament. It was not until last week that the President of this House presented a survey that says that a significant majority in this country – about 80 percent of the population – is not very satisfied with the work of this House, especially the individual Members. I think that one of the main reasons for this dissatisfaction lies in the fact that very many colleagues in this House apparently do not take themselves very seriously and, in many cases, as is shown by popular desires, also the fears, the problems, the concerns of the population do not take seriously. Mr Bundeskanzler, now to your claim that we want to sow green discord between you and your coalition partner: You don't need us to do that! As far as I know, the debate about NATO, the differentiated view of security policy in general, the debate about the federal army and the family taxation are not something that we constantly stir up greens, but there are considerable differences within the coalition. I mean, thank God there is still a difference between a Social Democratic Party and a Conservative People's Party somewhere. – I find the term "people's party" particularly interesting at this point in which we discuss popular desires that the right or middle group of this House, i.e. the ÖVP, does not take seriously at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I think it is important that there are ideological differences between SPÖ and ÖVP – also in a government, and nowhere do these ideological differences prove as clear as in these three popular desires. The reason why we wanted to put this urgent question to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is so that you can see that there are three people's desires for which there should actually be a large majority in this House. In the field of genetic engineering, there is this draft by Mrs Prammer, whom you have quoted several times when answering the urgent question. With many aspects in it, we could find ourselves very well, for example on issues of party position or the involvement of critical scientists in the committees, but the ÖVP has long ago re-explained this. We are currently negotiating a proposal in the Committee, Mr Bundeskanzler, which has long since ceased to contain all that Mrs Prammer has proposed. The same applies to the concerns of women's people's desire. The same applies, in particular, to the concerns of the animal welfare people's desire. In this area, the ÖVP has been blocking everything for months. In fact, we would have a strong majority here, but the SPÖ obviously lacks the will to fight for these concerns within the coalition, just as it does in other areas. We have experienced this: They have committed themselves to the position of the Socialist Group in the important area of pensions. They have, of course, been engaged in the whole area of the new banking world in this country, where it is a lot of power to do a lot of money. We expect a similar commitment from you, Mr Bundeskanzler, but also from the colleagues of the Socialist Group, to fight for these concerns which you are supposed to represent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then: The ÖVP is fighting, but in the other direction! Unfortunately, the lobbyists of a genetic industry are sitting here who have no interest at all in sharpening the genetic engineering law. It was "Wonderful" – I must congratulate you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat; what you did on Sunday, that was good PR work – to hear from you that you want an intensification of the genetic engineering law where They have been blocking everything in the committee for months, which has led to an intensification of the genetic engineering law. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: You didn't even make an application!]] They consciously want to scatter sand into the eyes of the people. A request has been withdrawn, which should never have been made, but the real situation in the field of genetic engineering has not changed at all since Sunday. We are faced with the situation that the concerns of the initiators of genetic engineering people have not yet been realized in any way. On the contrary: In one point, the concern has already been shoved. A central point was "No patent to life". What happened, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – The SPÖ would have joined us in a decision in the main committee to bind the Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner to vote against the EU patenting directive in the EU Council of Ministers. Many SPÖ colleagues have told me again and again: We would like to vote with you, but – unfortunately, unfortunately! – the ÖVP does not leave us. Coalition fidelity is going on! For example, the ÖVP has prevented reasonable positioning of Austria in the Council of Ministers. That is why you will be a little disbelief, Mr President-in-Office, even if you have once again told us today that on many points you agree with the demands that you want to achieve something in this regard. I am quite satisfied with your answers given to us in the field of genetic engineering, but I must say quite honestly to you: I do not really trust that this will become apparent and visible in the committees when it comes to concrete implementation through appropriate voting behaviour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have not been able to see it in the committees so far. On the contrary: At the same time, we have received a draft bill from Mrs Prammer for consideration, and I also have the suspicion that my colleague, Mrs Petrovic, has already formulated here: There seems to be something like a good PR on the part of the Social Democrats. It's working pretty well. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have now celebrated your one-year Chancellor's anniversary, and it has been granted to you across all the media that you are actually selling yourself very well. Yes, you demonstrate more closeness to the people, with the somewhat unpleasant side effect that you follow my taste too much of the boulevard. Anyway, you're demonstrating more people's closeness. But in your actions I already lack this closeness of people, and in the voting behaviour here in the House I miss it very much. But perhaps you, as SPÖ chief, have too little influence on your mandates. There is suddenly a lot of talk about the free mandate. [[Abg. Rider: Go!]] If that is not the case, Mrs Reitsamer, then I would be pleased if the German Chancellor's words in any way had an effect on our work in all the committees, where we had the majority everywhere, but unfortunately the ÖVP so far very successfully blocked all the more progressive, progressive measures. Mr Bundeskanzler, we are today, in 1998, in the situation that in the field of genetic engineering we are at the same level as in 1992. We have repeatedly told the Members of the Socialist Group and also the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that, in the debate in the Committee on Genetics and Research, risk technology such as genetic technology, where there are many fears and fears in the population, it will not be possible to hide the critics, but, especially if we have every citizen and want to make a progressive policy, it is necessary to take the resistance to take the fears seriously and to involve the critics in decision-making processes. The genetic engineering law was exactly the opposite answer: Critics out, critical experts out! And we have an absolute place today, 1998. Nothing's going on! Now you have the opportunity either to take seriously all these concerns, which have been signed by so many people in three different popular desires, and to translate them into appropriate legislative amendments, or to allow us to actually have an absolute pathetic situation, where there is nothing left, where there are only – in part irrational – resistances on all sides, and certainly not what the genetic industry or other lobbys that can find themselves at the ÖVP are also happening. The ÖVP really needs to consider how it intends to be responsible for blocking everything in four current areas – in the field of genetic engineering, in the area of women's policy, in the field of animal welfare, as well as in the field of the possession of weapons. Nothing seems to convince you of the ÖVP, no rational argument. You think you have to represent a minority here, but it seems strongly represented in you. Federal Chancellor! It will be up to you to show a real will to fight in the direction that it is serious for you to convince your government partner, and that you have not only given us beautiful answers here today, knowing that the ÖVP is blocking everything anyway, but that you are doing just as much as you do in other areas where it may be more power policy, perhaps also more party policy. Federal Chancellor! You have given us answers in respect of some areas with which we can work well in the committees, but the sample of nails is coming in a few weeks, and we hope that you will remember your comments and that you will remind the Members of your own party in particular of not only speaking about these three people's desires, but at last acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12728	Mrs Hlavac. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12749	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is understandable and also correct that those who bring in a popular desire and those who sign a popular desire will subsequently observe very closely what is happening here in Parliament. As chairman of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, I also have great interest in the fact that there is a constant discussion that there is a dialogue between those who have been so committed to this popular desire and us who are trying with the best knowledge and conscience to implement the demands. 650 000 signatures for women's desire were a clear sign for us. I would like to stress - this is very important to me - that many Members of my group have also signed this popular desire. Why? – Because this general concern to improve the situation of women is very important to us, problems that show up, solve and counteract negative tendencies. The Federal Chancellor has already stated that this is a very central issue for us Social Democrats. Many individual demands are not new to us. These are the demands that we, as the Social Democratic Party and our Social Democratic women, have already made. I would like to remind you that, for example, the retention period after leave and part-time work for young children's parents are two demands which have already been made by Minister Dohnal and which have already been negotiated in the large equal treatment package. At that time, however, there was no majority. I would be very pleased if it were possible to enforce them now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress - even though I understand, as I have said, that we are very much pressed - that a number of measures have recently been put in place for women. For example, I would like to point out that Mr Wissenschaftsminister One very much endeavours to appoint women at universities as professors, that within the last year alone four women have been appointed section heads, that we are really trying to get through what is called the "glass ceiling" and that we have recently put very conscious and highly targeted women in leadership positions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that a major step forward has just been taken recently in connection with small jobs. I know that not all claims have been fulfilled, but that was a particularly important measure. I am very glad that it has been decided by the National Council and the Federal Council. We will decide tomorrow that there will also be an equal treatment lawyer in the federal state of Tyrol. The cases in question must therefore no longer be dealt with from Vienna, but there will also be the possibility in the federal states that women who have problems at work will be able to contact an attorney. [[Complementary of the Abg. Worm.]] We will also, as you know, have discussed this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in general. A regulation in this respect is in operation. This is a very central question for us, because we know that women in the professional world are still very disadvantaged and that the demand for equal pay for equal work has not yet been realized. That is why we will take very specific action in this direction. In connection with childcare, the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned a central concern of my group. We know that young women want to reconcile work and family. We also know that it is very important for them that, while they are working, the children are well cared for and that they can above all be sure that they are well cared for. That is why I think it is a very important measure and would like to expressly welcome the fact that another 600 million schilling is being made available by the Federal Government for Child Care facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could represent a whole series of plans in this context, but for reasons of time this is not possible. I would therefore just like to say a few words on the further procedure in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. We have agreed to deal with thematic blocks, first of all with the question of the Constitution, namely Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. In addition, there is a request I have made. There are now also several other applications. I hope that it will be possible to reach an agreement on this because it would be an important concern for my group to anchor the equal treatment in the federal constitution. The various topics will therefore be dealt with in blocks. We have taught experts and will continue to do so. I believe it is important that we listen to the opinion of these experts. We are always accused of making arrangements too complicated to make arrangements which are not as feasible as we wish. That is to say, it is a matter of not only adopting good laws, but also of adopting good laws. We need a little time to do this. I would therefore ask the initiators of popular desire to be patient. We will present a report in March, by April 1998 at the latest. This will be a substantive report, and there will be motions for resolutions and legislative proposals to that effect. This means that a package must be chained, which really takes steps for women, with which we really make a leap forward for women. I think that we should discuss this together and that the initiators of popular desire should also take part in this discussion. I would very much regret the fact that they will no longer participate in our negotiations. We need the dialogue, we need the discussion! Then we will also, I am convinced, implement a good package of measures. We Socialists and Socialists are very much in favour of this and are also concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12838	The next speaker was Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Same time of speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e12859	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party takes every popular desire very, very seriously, every single signature made by the signatorys of each popular desire because it places a concern which they address to the Austrian Federal Government and to this Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We also have a great deal of understanding of the basic issue, especially in the case of the three peoples who are at issue today. Gene technology is an important area that has brought blessings to mankind in many points, but it could also mean curse. It is therefore to be accompanied with special care and constant observation. The women's concerns are essential to the Austrian People's Party, although I did not hide in the run-up to popular desire that some of the demands were formulated in such a way that they could also be directed against women and are therefore anti-female. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?- Oh, my God!]] The Austrian People's Party is also committed to comprehensive animal protection, because it is very important to us that every living creature in this country is encountered with awe and every living creature has a right to live here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we will not allow claims, such as those contained in the Green Papers, to destroy farmed family farms in Austria and thus lose the livelihood of rural families! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Let me briefly address the three areas. As far as the Committee on Genetics is concerned, I deeply regret the fact that the proponents of the genetic engineering people of this committee are now leaving behind, especially because, with them - and in very detailed terms - as with all the five political groups in this House, the procedure in this committee was determined in advance of parliamentary treatment. The committee's resolution was therefore determined in advance and therefore also that votes and thus concrete results will only be dealt with in Parliament with the final report of this committee. Nevertheless, my group, together with the Socialist Group, has endeavoured, for example, to ensure that, by means of a deadline request to the Minister of Justice, the long-standing liability law is now in place until 15. The Council of Ministers must go through the Council of Ministers on April so that it can be dealt with and adopted in this House before the next summer, so that there can also be uncertainty for the Austrian population in this area. Let me also say, however, that the implementation of some 38 requests made to the Federal Government in the wake of the genetic engineering people's desire – for there were only three points in the genetic engineering people's desire – would mean that thousands of Austrians would lose their jobs by the proponents of the popular desire to the Federal Government and then also in the genetic engineering committee. On the other hand, the Austrian People's Party is on its way! We feel responsible for Austrian jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you, Mrs Langthaler, say – and I have already been surprised – how many social-democratic colleagues would have assured you how much they would like to vote against the Biopatent Directive, then I must answer you: It must be clear to you that if we had not agreed to the Biopatent Directive, we would now have worse - both national and international - regulations in Austria than was the case before, and that no more biotech companies would have any interest in Austria's economic location in the future! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Bullshit!]] Mrs Langthaler! We currently have more than 5 000 jobs in biotechnology in Austria. This would have put you at serious risk, which means less income or unemployment for 5,000 families. I would like to quote briefly from a magazine today. "The World of Economy" writes under the title: "Biotech industry is booming" – I quote: "The number of companies has quadrupled." Or here's a German statistics. [[the speaker holds a graphic with the title "Company in Germany"]] It shows the increase in the number of enterprises in this sector from 75 companies in 1995 to 150 in 1996 and 300 in 1997. This corresponds to a forecast increase in the number of jobs from 40 000 in 1996 to 110 000 in 2000. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The jobs that are destroyed are unfortunately not in there!]] Similarly, I would like to stress that the development could also be in Austria, unless the Greens prevent this, but that is probably not enough for your group in this House. But if you convince the Social Democrats, it may come to a more anti-economic course. I am very grateful to you for stressing here again and again that the Austrian People's Party is the guarantee for the Austrian economy and thus the guarantee for Austrian jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Or another heading: Biotechnology market in Europe in billions of D-Mark, adoption of medium-sized scenario: 14 per cent growth per year, so not insignificant at all. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Biotechnology and genetic technology – do you know that there is a difference?- Oh, my God!]] I'll be happy to answer that. In order not to suspect that this is an ÖVP opinion, Mrs Langthaler, I quote from yesterday's "standard": "It's not about corn. Many people do not want to address the real problems of genetic engineering and farmers." And it goes on to say – I quote –: "It would be preferable to raise the appearance as if the development could be seriously stopped with a few demonstrations and a few postcards to the Minister of Consumer Protection. That doesn't work, of course. Otherwise, genetic development continues whether this fits the Austrians or not." [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The train is in the wrong direction, but it is Wurst!]] "It is only certain that Austria will not be involved in the business if the image of an anti-technical Alpine republic solidifies with prejudiced bureaucracy." – End of the quote from yesterday's "standard", and the "standard" is really not a bourgeois newspaper, but rather a green one. Mrs Langthaler! Please note that the Austrian People's Party will not allow the Green Group of this House to destroy jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us also note that we will not allow you to destroy jobs in agriculture, that you will destroy jobs in research and technology, that you will destroy jobs in the economy and, last but not least, destroy jobs in medicine, because all pharmaceutical companies would then no longer consider this location of Austria as theirs. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Thank God!]] I would be very interested, ladies and gentlemen, what your new Federal Party Commissioner Mr Van der Bellen says about this anti-scientific and technological attitude. That would certainly be very interesting! Mrs Petrovic, too, does not, of course, want to see jobs created not by the Green Group or by professional demonstrators or self-proclaimed animal owners, but by Austrian businesses, by innovative small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The initiators of popular desire are destroying jobs?]] Let me briefly say a few words about the animal welfare people's desire; Mrs Rosemarie Bauer will then comment on the women's desire. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor has remained guilty of an answer. He's not here either. It must be known to him that the Conference of State Chiefs has taken a unanimous decision against a shift of competence in animal welfare, with the votes of the two socialist Heads of State, Häupl and Stix. [[State Secretary Dr. Wittmann talks to the government bank. Tychtl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dr. Wittmann! Maybe you'll listen to the speaker!]] That is why the Austrian People's Party, as the only group in this House, has continued to work on the matter, and we have succeeded in convincing the national leaders that they have already established, before the animal welfare demand, uniform regulations in farm animals, which are exemplary in the European Union. Deutsche Tierschützer repeatedly cites the Austrian regulations in livestock farming. With these exemplary Article 15a contracts, which have already been implemented in all nine federal states, Austria is a model country in livestock farming! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have now asked the national conference to present an expert draft in all those areas which are not yet uniformly regulated. It was significant that Mr Kostelka, at the last committee meeting, was amazed at the fact that this had led to a result. And in the case of all the shortcomings that this draft of experts still has, one must say that there is something there that might well lead to a result. That is why I believe that we have been the only group in this matter. We hope that we will come to an Article 15a rule very soon for the rest of the areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13072	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has reported on an actual correction. I would ask for the wording of the case to be corrected and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13096	Three very short corrections. Mrs Rauch-Kallat said that today's requests by the Greens and the People's Demands are endangering or destroying thousands of jobs in the field of biotechnology. This is wrong. We have analysed the employment situation in Austria in this area on a point-by-point basis. One case fell below, namely the marilla trees of Professor Kattinger at the BOKU. I don't know exactly how many people work there, but I'm very sure it's not thousands. Point two: They said that the small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of genetic and biotechnology in Austria were at risk by these applications. This is wrong. In this area there are no small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, but in particular Immuno, Novartis, Biochemistry and AgrEvo. These are corporations and not small businesses! Thirdly, Mrs Rauch-Kallat! They have said that our animal welfare applications threaten small and medium-sized farms. This is wrong. The policy of the EIA threatens and destroys these jobs. Thus, the number of farms between 1990 and 1995 fell from 281 910 to 263 522, with the number of small farms falling much more than that of large ones; these are growing. – That’s your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13138	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13160	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Rauch-Kallat has clearly and very clearly demonstrated that she is certainly not the ideal occupation for the presidency of the Special Committee. Its attitude to genetic technology is so clearly supportive that it can no longer have the necessary accessibility for arguments expressed by scientists. Mrs Kallat, you have proved this clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Can you prove a single incorrectness to me?]] You have forgotten one thing in your list of areas in which jobs are destroyed: With the approval of this very worrying technology, namely genetic technology, which I hope will not be included in Austria for a long time, it may be that in the field of organic farming, considered so necessary by Mr Molterer today, a large number of jobs in this country will be destroyed. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: We will send your speech to Mr. Prinzhorn!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you well motivated today?]] Let me start by making fundamental statements on the instrument of direct democracy, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Think about what you're saying! Otherwise, you won't love your party boss!]] It has always been our duty to strengthen and further expand direct democracy in the country. It is clear that direct democracy is an absolutely necessary complement to parliamentarianism, especially to the parliamentaryism which is often practiced here in this House, which does not take place in the form of how it should take place, but you simply take over what is being brought in by the government. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't think about it now! Your caretaker will not love you, Mr. Colleague. You didn't think! He only loves people who think!]] This direct democracy is sometimes also a corrective one, especially if a majority of governments, like those of yours, are neglecting or ignoring Austrian interests due to the progressive EU obedience, which is particularly from the ÖVP, or – even worse – as you have done in the Patentation Directive. You have betrayed Austrian interests here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The genetic engineering people's desire is a classic example of not taking seriously the results of this direct democracy. This supremacy of popular desire has been signed by more than 1.2 million people in this country and, by the way, has contributed in advance to a comprehensive information for the population. It has contributed to the broad discussion of this sensitive issue that the public has acquired knowledge to discuss those issues that can decide the future of the population in this country: about release attempts, about food from the genetic laboratory, about patent on life. So this popular desire has brought an impressive result of more than 1.2 million signatures – but that was it then, ladies and gentlemen! The special committee set up under your chairmanship will be used by you, especially by the ÖVP, to make the popular desire formal enough to treat it formally. You are going to act in the committee as if there had been no such popular desire with its contents, Mrs Kallat. The main committee – which has already been mentioned today – when "No patent for life" was a key issue in this Special Committee, without taking the decision of the EU Patentation Directive, without amending it. This has ignored the claim "No patent to life" from you. You said at the time – I quote you literally –: Without If and But we agree to this patenting directive. A discussion is not desirable. - You said that. This is how you deal with 1.2 million signatures here in Parliament! This must be communicated to the public clearly and clearly. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Petrovic.]] I do not need to be a prophet if I claim that the next release requests will come and be decided positively because you are in fact in favour of these release requests. Molterers and Kallat have often communicated this to the public enough. And the sadness is: The SPÖ plays the fulfillment assistants. Pioneer has only withdrawn the requests for release because we have addressed the issue of liability because the farmers who should make the fields available have awakened and have come to believe that, as the weakest link in the chain, they should be liable for any problems that may arise, because § 364 ABGB means, as the Minister has told us, that the farmers are fully liable for what can result from consequential damage. This was in fact the reason for the withdrawal of applications for release. Mr Schwarzenberger! It was interesting when I asked the large Austrian insurance companies who were insured against the risks involved. Tell your farmers: No Austrian insurance company is willing to make an insurance for that! If there is no risk and you can only do business with it, I ask you: Why do insurance companies not take out insurance in this respect? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should ask yourself this. And ask the farmers, too. Why should the farmers get involved in such a thing? Just to meet the interest of the People's Party, the support of the Gen-Lobbyists at EU level, but also here in this House? – All of this should make you think. We always get the same answer from the insurance companies: Risk not projectable! That is why our request, tabled by the Head of State, which provides for a five-year ban on release, is, of course, correct. What the Federal Chancellor has told us, namely that such a request under EU law is not permitted, is not true. This is a case-by-case decision, according to the information provided by legal experts in the last committee. That is to say, one must look at the individual case and then also be able to decide on a ban on release for a longer period of time. This is the correct information, not the one given by the Federal Chancellor today. However, the suspicion is that the government parties in the issue of release also rely on time profit. They are only waiting for their work to be taken away from the European Union. You quoted a German newspaper, I will also quote one, namely the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" of today. She reports that a more liberal release system is already underway, Mrs Kallat, "the core idea of which is to draw up a list freeing certain genetic organisms from the previous bureaucratic regime at the level of safety I". What does that mean? - I don't need to explain that to you. That is why you rely on time gain and wait until you can say again, at EU level, this has just been so decided. Then come with the argument that in the field of agriculture and the food industry, genetic engineering is expected to increase enormous job growth. That's your argument. We see that you are putting your time on winning again, you only want to discuss for so long until you can speak out again on a directive that has been adopted in the European Union, and then you say that unfortunately we cannot do anything. The improvement in the treatment of such successful people's desires in this House in the future will bring about a request made by Mr Aumayr. I ask the Greens and Liberals to agree to this request that a people's desire, which reaches a certain number of signatures, should be forced to vote for it so that you can no longer play as easily as you now demonstrate it to the public with popular desires as successful as that of genetic engineering.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13286	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has reported on an actual correction. I would ask you to comply with the conditions I formulated a few minutes ago. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13311	Mr President. Mr Schweitzer claimed that I would have said that the Austrian People's Party would agree to the Biopatent Directive without if and but and that the discussion was undesirable. That's wrong. The fact is that I never said "without If and But" and that the discussion was, of course, not only desirable in this area, but also urgently necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: You said it!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13365	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13387	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are already in the equally intense debate, as we are experiencing in the Special Committee, though there with the different presence of the individual political groups, I must already hold back one from Karl Schweitzer, although I agree with the intention of his speech. If we look at the negotiations and the discussions we have had in the Committee, then one thing has to be said: Of course, direct democracy is a good complement to the representative, and that is why it exists within this framework, as we have it. But if you make the proposal that a popular desire which reaches a certain number of signatures should be given a referendum, I ask you: What are we doing with the popular desire which is now in place, which has, of course, had three placarding demands on the content, but is not, of course, appropriate in this form to be cast into the form of law? We can't decide on a federal law that says: No food from the gene lab! It's not going to happen, it's not feasible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] But that's exactly what it's all about. Karl! We are now sitting in the Special Committee and talking about the very concrete ways in which this popular desire can be implemented. We are talking about liability rules and about the need to make it easier for evidence, and we are talking about whether there should be any causality. Karl! These are all discussions that must be in love with details, because if you do not consider every detail, you can eliminate any liability regime. There are already rules of liability for releases today. The farmers would be held liable, as you have said, but this is a liability for debt. And the injured one must prove that he has been harmed. He must prove illegality, he must prove causality. These are the specific problems that an individual needs so many opinions in the case of genetically modified organisms in order to prove the damage that he never comes to his right. That is why we are talking about other liability provisions than we have at present, and that is why I am telling you here that: We will not be able to conduct these discussions in the sense of good parliamentary practice and good legislative practice if they continue to be as plausible and superficial as is still the case. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] The concerns raised today with regard to the moratories are correct. The question arises whether this is at all possible. It is true that a moratorium cannot be made as formulated in the motion for a resolution of the Liberals in the Special Committee. We cannot say that we want five years of release moratorium, and we want to use this time to collect the facts to find out what happened in other releases. Karl, you said it yourself here, it must be decided on a case-by-case basis. That is why I have to make a decision in the specific case, and I have to... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Climate has said there is no possibility of a moratorium at all! That's wrong!]] Moratorium is called – and so we have understood it so far, but perhaps it is just a definition question –: generally no releases. Now, of course, we can transform this and say, it is so meant that we look at the release request and think about it, but then we say: Actually, no, basically not! because we already knew before what should come out afterwards. It is true, however, that the risk raised by Mrs Petrovic, namely that there are crossovers of genetically modified plants, exists only in those areas where there are related species. This does not apply to the potato with us, nor does it apply to the maize. But it applies to the raps – and it happened with the raps. It is also true that at that time, when we negotiated the technological impact assessment in the example of genetic engineering in the survey committee, vehemently, there was a possibility of crossovers. But what has been claimed by the Greens at the time and what has been disputed by the other flat-rate, was not right, because there can be a cross-over, that is possible – but only where there are related wild species. If that is the case, then we must treat this differently, and we do not. We are not talking differently about the individual risk areas, and we are not talking differently about what we need to do in each area. I therefore believe that we should focus on increasing the quality of our debate in this House. In the Committee on Genetics, we simply need to ensure that what is being discussed is really appropriate. I would like to make one more comment on my previous speaker: I do not have the impression, Karl, that Mrs Rauch-Kallat is tending to misuse her chairmanship. She doesn't. That's not my impression. I also think it is a step forward that all the political groups taking part in the negotiations – which the Greens are now no longer doing – make a press conference in the Committee and say what their impression of the matter is. I think this makes sense, and that is also a good opportunity for the opposition. I think this is a good parliamentary practice. However, my impression is that it is rather restrictive from the point of view of the EIA that one does not want to have any differentiations here, that one rather wants to stick to what one already has on liability issues. One may still be able to get through a risk liability, but in the light of the relief, one is already very reluctant, although even the representatives of genetic engineering today clearly recognize that they themselves have not proved any good service by accusing the liability rules of the genetic engineering law. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, there was no one from the ÖVP in ministerial responsibility, but that was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the SPÖ, who passed us a genetic engineering law without liability rules, because they were accused of it at government level. However, it is also true that the Council of Ministers did not seem to have objected to any other minister or other minister in order to bring precisely those regulations back into the law. This responsibility must therefore be attached to the Federal Government. But it is also clear that what the popular desire presents is a negotiating mandate with a certain objective and cannot be implemented one too one. The discussion we have in committee is not one that will lead to a differentiated solution, and I believe that this is much more detrimental to economic development than much else, which is otherwise done here in the House. The discussion in the field of genetic technology is not relevant, but is in love with ideology. And because this is the case, we have in fact not yet taken a step forward in this committee. Some new facts have been brought in by experts, but it does not look like we can really put them into legal action. And I'll tell you one more thing, ladies and gentlemen: If we do not depend on the last partsession, in which we then clarify precisely those detailed questions and questions of definition which are necessary for a reasonable legal regime, then this committee was in vain tiredness of love. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13438	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13460	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer here. He doesn't have much meat on urgent requests and requests. After a relatively short period of time, he flees, at least here from this hall. I'm sorry because I wanted to answer him. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has begun his reply by accusing us of having a party political participation here. I think only one parallel is what party political participation is: if decisions on public-sector posts fall according to the public system and less so after the qualification, if still, as we will see in the evening after the secret election, the party proport, the agreement between red and black, the decisive qualification, and not the professional, let alone the idea that women are favoured for so long in the event of equal qualifications in the case of personnel decisions, until there is an actual parity in a body. This is, by the way, a promise given by the Chancellor or the Federal Government, but you will not be meeting it late in the evening, as it looks. – So much just for party political inclusion. If the Federal Chancellor says that women's policy is one of the priorities of this federal government, I think only one thing, namely the savings packages you have decided on. We have seen how seriously you take it with the priorities you set yourself as a federal government. If we look at the effects of these savings packages – I don't want to do this again in all the width – then we know what it looks like in reality when you focus on them. This is not our understanding of priority. If the Federal Chancellor says that the government basically supports the objectives of women's people's desire, I must say that is not enough. We have now seen this in the subcommittee's deliberations: If it is not about the implementations, then we have nothing of it if you, as the Federal Government, support the goals of the women's people's desire that is intentional. The only measure of how serious it is with priorities, with objectives that you support, is implementation. Two, three things, which are also included in our questions and which you have addressed. As far as childcare is concerned, we will have the opportunity later in the evening to discuss what has not been observed and is not true of what you have answered. I don't want to stop with that now. Something's gotten me stupid. Here at the speaker's desk, Mr Bundeskanzler says as a generous offer: The Federal Government is willing to introduce and implement women's promotion plans in each department. – Oh, my God, my heart laughs! Since 1993, there has already been a corresponding law! The first report on this was published last year, i.e. 1996. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic seems to have slept a little. And the announcement that the social-democratic resorts will of course be ready to implement women's promotion plans is a joke. They have already done this, and the other resorts have done it because they are obliged to do so! That's the joke of the day, please! You really should remember that! The Federal Government's emphasis here looks like it promises us something that Parliament has passed as a law and which it is obliged to do. It can't have been! I would really have liked to say that to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany personally. After all, he's the head of government and should know. Perhaps one can still judge him that he takes note of the fact that laws are, of course, to be observed. A great deal could be said about how inadequate the reports are and how little can be read from them; but this announcement really belongs to a joke, but not to an answer from the Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is similar with the answer to what will be done with the procurement directives, because here the Chancellor has replied that very concrete steps have already been taken to ensure that a survey has been held. – But I am surprised when these are the concrete steps if the Federal Government is satisfied in future that its concrete steps are objectives, the support of targets and of what has already been decided, and the holding of surveys. – It can't have been! That's where action would be needed. I would have been very curious about the German Chancellor's reply, because the last subcommittee meeting has clearly shown that there are some things that can be done; not only since the apprentices have been taken into account in the award system, but we Greens have talked very precisely the last time, very detailed with the experts about the extent to which we could actually change something without compromising or damaging any other laws, constitution or EU law. That means there would be an urgent need for action. This must be a matter of course. There are no other rules, no other framework legislation. It can be implemented and carried out, first in the case of contracts, in the case of awards and in the case of public service promotions. It is embarrassing to read through the replies of those ministers we have asked to what extent the equal treatment law is taken into account in these procurement directives or in the promotions. It is not taken into account; it cannot be taken into account because it does not control the extent to which it is actually observed and the extent to which there are reports and women's promotion plans. There is a lot to be said about this, and there is still a lot to be done. Finally, the answer to the question of the minimum income of 15 000 S gross. I can only tell you the following – addressed to the address of the Federal Government: Those 151 000 women who are in full employment below 12 000 s gross will be grateful for this answer! Clearly – I can only say – it is not enough if this is left to the social partners, obviously there is more to it than social partnership talks. Clearly, the mandate of the legislator and Parliament is necessary to achieve minimum limits here. This answer we have received is depressing and sad. If I had taken it seriously at some point that the Federal Government was focusing on women's policy, it would have exposed itself at the latest with this answer. For it cannot be very important if, in the same breath and in the same answer, one of the essential questions, namely the protection of women, if they work full-time, on an extra-parliamentary body – or not even a body, but a body! – delegated and says: They're supposed to do this, that's always the way it was, and they liked it. – But we see at the same time: It didn't please at all, and it never did! Last but not least: I also consider the enforcement of the actual equal treatment of women in the Federal Constitution to be one of the most pressing issues, given the decision that the Constitutional Court will take in the late evening. For if we already had such a formulation in the federal constitution today, then you – that is, the majority – would not be able to overcome this today, then you could not simply give a man the preference if at the same time there were qualified women who applied for it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13544	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13565	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the comments made by my predecessor, Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander, the following must be said: The Federal Chancellor knows, of course, that there has been a law since 1993. It is not so that it has gone away from him! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: The Proporzverchangesgesetz!]] He has just said that in the future it will no longer be possible to proceed on a redundancie, but in the form of a regulation, so that it can be acquitted. That has not been the case so far. – So much only for the salvation of the Federal Chancellor, who, of course, cannot answer at the moment. Now on the subject of animal welfare and popular desire for a federal uniform regulation in the field of animal welfare. This has already been the subject of a debate in the House several times, it has also been in the Subcommittee several times; that is, the subject has already been discussed in detail. The situation is – in short – as follows: On the one hand, there is the demand of the people for a uniform federal regime with high animal welfare standards, on the other hand, there are proposals from the individual political groups in this direction. We from SPÖ have presented a comprehensive bill. He has been added recently because opinions have been put in place, and I believe that the three political groups and the experts will approve of our request. We of the SPÖ believe that the legislative competence to protect the animals must lie with the federal government in order to ensure a clear guarantee of implementation and control. Only then, I believe, is it guaranteed that animal welfare can also be introduced seriously and without alibi function and will continue to exist in the future. I think four parties see that as it is, unfortunately only our coalition partner is not yet ready to take part in this issue. [[Abg. Wabl: How long will it take?]] [[Abg. May. Main: Five years!]] I hope – I am optimistic – this will happen in the near future. I think it is also a matter of how much the people are trying to support this issue and also to understand that this issue needs to be dealt with and a solution to it. The ÖVP understands the 15a contractual variant under a single federal regime. The proposals submitted to us by the countries to the last subcommittee prove, not least, that a serious basis cannot be achieved in this way. Because a 15a contract can be dissolved unilaterally at any time with a notice period of six months. That is to say, the solution to the future of a single system, only if we take this pass out, will lead the whole thing ad absurdum. I think there could be an approach to content at the end of February. At that time, a new subcommittee meeting will be held to which experts will be invited to discuss it and to discuss it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we have very clearly deposited in our proposals and have also shown that we are in favour of comprehensive animal protection, that this is very important to us. We also know where it's still hanging. [[Abg. Wabl: Where does it hang?]] It is the coalition partner who, I hope, will perhaps, in the near future, be deluded into a united solution, even in view of the logical sequence that a federal system can only be achieved on this issue if the competence is also in the covenant. I mean, it's just a matter of time and also of the acting persons how it will develop. With great joy, I got my hands on an article from the magazine "Tierfreund" in Vienna from 1992 where there is a big reading: A lance for animal protection. Minister for the Environment Feldbrill-Zankel demands Federal Animal Protection Act. – I can also quote: The then Minister of the Environment held a press conference on 31 December. August complains of the fragmentation and inconsistency of animal welfare competence in Austria and would like to see a uniform animal welfare legislation as in Switzerland or Germany. [[Abg. Wabl: That's why she resigned! She resigned because she didn't get through!]] I mean, there are different views on animal welfare. For Mrs Feldgrill-Zankel has also said that it is reluctance to judge the behaviour of humans on the animal within our state structure differently, as the multitude of federal and national laws currently call for – i.e. 1992 – and even now. And Feldgrill-Zankel is committed to improving Austrian animal welfare legislation and calls for a federal uniform animal welfare law. I mean, there are, in fact, quite different opinions within the EIA. There's nothing to add to it in itself. It is to be hoped that this process will be possible in the near future. I can give Mr Klubobmann Khol and Mrs Rauch-Kallat a copy of this article, which I was very pleased about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13669	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13694	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Petrovic, in her urgent question to the women's people's desire, said that, supported by the many signatures of the women's people's desire, it was not even possible to achieve the necessary real equality for women. It goes on to say that the debate has started with much lateness and it is likely that there will in fact be no change in the law or that the chance is very small. I would like to oppose the fact that a timetable has been decided here in the House. I still have the original documents which show that the women's desire was on 27 May. He was sent to the House on 5 May 1997 and after a stay of 5 May 1997. The communication was made on this subject on June. In the 76th century. We were assigned to the National Council meeting to carry out the first reading. This first reading was held on 10. At the same time, the allocation to the Equal Treatment Committee was set and the deadline decided on until the time when the reporting of the deliberations should take place. ==References== ==References== In fact, at 30. The discussions were started on 1 September 1997. The end of the reporting period was also set by us at the time, namely the 12. ==References== - So much for it. A subcommittee was set up and proposals were also put forward with all the votes of the various political groups on how to discuss each subject. We are in the middle of this discussion; I would just like to remind you that there is the impression that nothing has happened here. We from the Austrian People's Party, and above all from our Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have always observed from the outset that the wording is likely to be partly plausible and thus impossible to implement, that the measures listed there cannot be solved alone in this House. We said the following: As a target, yes, but in implementation we will have problems. We are in a situation where experts – even your experts and the experts of the IndependentWomen Forum – point out in many areas that problems and approaches are much more complex than that of the "small Maxi" clearly imagined that, of course, the discussions continue that there are difficult processes – not only opinion, we are not so far – of information and information. We from the ÖVP therefore feel very well attested in our opinion and in our course of action by these expert opinions, which are not only expressed by our experts. There are still many individual dates ahead. Finally, labour law and procurement were dealt with. Mrs Schaffenrath has also had to admit that it is really a complex issue, that we will have to find solutions here, but that the finding of these solutions will be difficult, that we can actually debate and discuss this area first, because, as a result of the time limit, we have actually only heard expert opinions. I think it is very important that we should therefore discuss a timetable for the next item so that we can really discuss it politically. It is still the whole area of social security for pensions. I do not know whether the time will at all be enough to start discussions here with the individual experts. From this point of view, I am opposed to opinions that say that one or the other would not agree here. We did not express any opinion from the EIA in the hearings or in the subcommittees, which are only advisory bodies for information purposes, because we still want to obtain additional information in various areas, or because there is still a need for individual negotiations in order to finally come up with formulations. Ladies and gentlemen! The accusation that nothing has happened here, that nothing would have gone on, I can also do away with it. Perhaps it is really up to the proposals or the demands, because I am very satisfied with those requests that we have tabled here in this House, i.e. I mean the ÖVP women, which also bring solutions to some of the problems raised in the women's desire and which have already been implemented in the meantime. No one has talked about that at all. For the better reckoning of child rearing times has already been decided in fact in the context of the budget accompanying legislation, as has the recognition of the care of sick members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also called for a more flexible design of the karenz period. There have also been solutions in the Committee on Social Affairs, and we have gone a long way, apart from all the accompanying laws on the budget, which are very likely to bring improvements to women, perhaps more quickly and better than what has been presented here. We from the ÖVP have received further requests from the committees and subcommittees to deal with them, and without exception, experts have supported us in our request to re-evaluate work, which is of course a great help or a big step towards the "equal pay for equivalent work". There is another request concerning the social security of women, i.e. the partial entitlement or the re-regulation of the pension payment for women also in the event of a genuine marriage, in order to ensure the provision of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen! I was amazed that suddenly after a round of experts, UFF's permanent chairman, the Independent Women's Forum, wanted to throw the towel and meant that they would leave this committee. I understand. Democratic processes are difficult, and it is also laborious to listen to expert opinions for hours, even if one is not completely familiar with the matter at one point or another – that is what I am doing – and sees how complex and difficult some regulations are. In the social field, this is in particular the case, and it has obviously left the courage. I do not want to assume that this is an action such as the genetic engineering people's desire, but I am nevertheless very sorry that she wants to leave the committee because I believe that the bodies, the information on the backgrounds and deeper knowledge of the individual problems, would certainly be very important – and this is also confirmed by UFF's experts. It is not possible to explain to women, the citizens who have signed, how difficult it is to find appropriate regulations. I'm very confident we're on schedule. We should rather leave ourselves time and try to achieve something good, and not necessarily constantly hinder each other in the work, saying nothing goes on. That's not right! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Petrovic! You have today called for more honesty at an item on the agenda. I'm telling you honestly, too. Start with yourself! The action you want to take here today does not correspond to an honest democratic attitude!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13778	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that this urgent question addresses individual people's desires. I am particularly pleased, however, that I can show, in the context of this urgent question, how the government deals with the wishes and concerns of the people and how little it takes civil rights and direct democracy seriously. It is obvious that it has become a method of referring successful popular desires to sub-committees, to take them there via so-called expert hearings and to push them to the long bank. This has also happened in the case of animal protection people's desire for genetic engineering or in the case of women's desires. For about two years now, the desire of about half a million signers is simply ignored, and their desires and concerns are also ignored. This is why, and so, the public learns how their wishes and concerns are dealt with, I believe that popular desire should always be dealt with publicly in the committees and also in the subcommittees in the future. I am also of the opinion that, unlike Mr Barmüller, people's desires, if they have not been done or are being done positively, should actually be given a referendum, should they have a certain number of signatures. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk briefly about animal welfare. For years, we have been pointing out the nine different national laws and the different regulations. We point out that this keeps opening the door and the door again and again and that there are problems in the implementation of the individual animal welfare legislation. We have therefore massively supported this popular desire to protect animals and have welcomed the fact that so many have signed this popular desire. However, the objectives of this popular desire have unfortunately failed to date in particular with regard to the resistance of the EIAs, mainly with regard to agricultural farming. Ladies and gentlemen! According to experts, it would be far better to regulate farming not according to the 15a contracts, but within the framework of the animal justice index, since it is a flexible compensation model and it would be far better and more cost-effective for the individual farms if they could proceed according to this model. The fact that this willingness is actually present within agriculture shows that more than 23 000 organic holdings have been practicing this model for years and have been geared towards farm animals on the basis of this TGI. As simple as Mr Bundeskanzler or Mrs Parfuss did, it really cannot be done. You can't just say, The evil coalition partner doesn't want to. Although you are in favour of a federal animal welfare law and you have also presented a draft, the evil coalition partner prevents it. – Four parties are in favour of this federal animal welfare law. It would therefore be relatively easy to get the necessary two-thirds majority to do so. The fact that the 15a proposal on the part of the ÖVP is not really appropriate has shown itself as part of the expert hearing. First of all, the 15a agreement would make it possible for different regulations to exist within the individual Länder, since minimum standards would be required, but in the individual Länder, rules would be possible. That is to say, it would be like to see the same animal in Lower Austria as perhaps in Upper Austria, Burgenland or another federal country. It can't be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, this 15a proposal would lead to a further fragmentation of the individual animal welfare laws. Experts have assumed that there should be at least five different laws and regulations per country; that is to say, in Austria, there are 45 different regulations and laws in order to be able to implement these 15a agreements. It can't be! That means that this would lead to further legal uncertainty. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP! So give up your prevention tactics, and finally allow federal rules to take place here and the animals in the individual federal states really get the same priority! In any case, our liberals will continue to use us in the future for comprehensive animal protection in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13860	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13881	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Salzl! Let me start by saying this: I do not want it to be seen as a mere tactic of wear and tear when we participate in the subcommittees of experts. As far as the Subcommittee of the Committee on Equal Opportunities is concerned, I am very pleased to receive expert information, and I am sure that this information has supported me personally and, as I believe, also the other members in this committee in our argument. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: In animal welfare two days!]] They kept it very general. In any event, I would have liked to have kept myself on the subject of the Committee on Equal Opportunities' Subcommittee. The Liberals have supported the goal of women's popular desire. I cannot fully share the very critical comments made by Mrs Kammerlander. Supporting a women's people's desire does not mean wanting to implement the demands there even in relation to one. We Liberals claim to have, on the individual points, also differentiated ideas – even further ideas in individual areas – and to distinguish ourselves from others in one point or another on the way to the goal. Of course, I think Mrs Bauer's assessment is very optimistic, namely that we are on the right track with the implementation of individual points as a whole. Although we may be within the scheduled timetable, there are no trends, there is no point in which – especially on the part of the ÖVP – I have to say that clearly here, and unfortunately also on the part of the FPÖ – we can see real will to change. If the initiators of the women's people's desire, represented in the Subcommittee, withdraw from this, we think that this is a wrong step. We even believe that the success of this popular desire is devalued. But we can still understand their frustration. The representatives of the Freedom Party and the People's Party will remember that it was a laborious and tough discussion process of two hours to agree only on whether the IndependentWomenForum may draw two experts or just one. That was a bad time. We could have used this time better. And we can also read that the willingness to involve these women is really not very pronounced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion within this Subcommittee on Constitutional Change, we have also tried, with the support of very competent experts and experts, to reach at least a declaration of will, a declaration of intent. If Mrs Bauer says that it would not be useful to vote in a subcommittee, I will give her the right. But it would be an opportunity to express a fundamental willingness to change the constitution. We have not talked about specific proposals, we have talked about the basic willingness. And in the context of this discussion, it is very likely that, with the help of experts and experts, a government target is an essential element and can take on a tax function for future policy decisions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really believe that linking public procurement with women's promotion plans is a very complex and very difficult issue. Not only do we have nine different procurement rights in the countries and a federal procurement right, but we also have to take into account EU law in the procurement sector. And it has been made very clear that there can only be a sensible regulation if criteria are clearly defined. However, this will lead to a huge bureaucracy in different sizes of operations, in different industries. In any case, the formulation of women's promotion plans will not be sufficient. We need regular and accurate evaluation measures, otherwise the link with the award of public contracts remains a pure alibrition. If you today, Mrs Petrovic, have complained that for women what has been made possible for apprentices would not have been achieved, I will tell you: I do not wish to have the rules applicable to apprentices for women. That's an alibi action. This provision has no legal relevance. This is no more than a target formulation. In any case, women have not deserved it. We should discuss other approaches here, and we should also consider how much we can achieve greater creation of women's jobs in all sectors and at different levels through an incentive system. In the course of the current hour, Mr Reitsamer said that the social security of minor employees would be completed. I continue to argue with vehement. This voluntaryity is actually only fictitious. Women in depressed financial situations cannot decide. That is why I think this is an alibi action. This only shows that the individual situation of women cannot be taken into account in the context of existing structures. In addition, this point of women's desire is supplemented by the demand for the same social and labour-related provisions for part-time employment. In this area, it is likely that, with good will, there will be no long-term consultation, an approximation of the employee's law could be made in the working time law. And if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic announced today that he would like to place more emphasis on the in-house co-determination in the future, he will at least have my full support for it, because we are rather talking about internal company participation rather than legal regulation. I know my speaking time is limited. There are still many points to be discussed in this context. We have another opportunity to discuss the problem of childcare at the last item on the agenda today. In any case, what I would like to remind you once again from this point of view is a training offensive for women. I can only vehemently criticize the behaviour of the labour market service. By this, I almost say, bad apprenticeship action has been re-taken. I know we have medium-term scarcity, but this should not be at the expense of women's projects. This could be mentioned by me spontaneously: Mira, Aqua, the projects in Upper Austria, which have worked very, very successfully and consistently in the qualification area for women. If we mobilise billions of funds for apprentices, and this is still to do with the introduction of real reforms, I think it is also legitimate to call for a qualified billion for women, because in many areas we are in need of rethinking. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that at least some of the points of women's desire will be implemented. But here really is action and serious work. The Liberals and the Greens will, at least today, jointly present a proposal for a member of the Constitutional Court, and that will be a woman, a woman at least as well qualified as the competitors. And we very much hope that in these rows today you will at least give a sign of your good will to actually put women's equality into social reality.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13927	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e13951	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the implementation of over two million Austrians' concerns. They have received about three million votes from the great coalition. Two thirds of your voter potential is behind these concerns which you are pushing to the long-term bank, which you are pushing to the empty government bank, where – please allow me this observation – the representative of the government, the Secretary of State, with inexpressible boredom, with an incredible "disinterest", I would like to say now almost to give birth to a new word creation that follows the debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's always like that!]] I think that is very significant. It's symbolic for me. In my opinion, this clearly shows the attitude you take as a government party towards concerns carried by millions of people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: That's ridiculous!]] What does the Federal Chancellor have to say about this? He says that it is discussed in the committees. Yes, then why do you have to extract the exponents? – Because the matter is so delayed so much that it is pushed to the long bank that they have no more option than to illustrate this situation by their behaviour. What has the Federal Chancellor also said? . The process of treating popular desires should be accelerated so that it is not yet able to do so only because of the necessary changes. I wonder, What is he for when he can't accelerate processes? What, then, does he lead a government that has a two-thirds majority if he cannot really take action against the possibilities of speeding up popular desires? The Federal Chancellor pointed out that Mrs Prammer was traveling to Brussels and was introduced there. Where democracy is being trampled on, should it achieve something, and this if it does not take democracy seriously at home? They themselves are constantly dragging on the very thin political parquet. It can't go on that way anymore! We need a course correction – that is, I am at the essential point of this debate, and unfortunately at the end of my speech, as the light flashes at the speaker's desk – because a large coalition usually makes big mistakes. And this course correction is the popular desire. Your biggest mistake in the great coalition is that you do not take these popular desires seriously. I think that must be concluded.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14008	Mr Gradwelt has now spoken. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14029	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Wabl! I can use this determined one. No – I didn't understand the first – don't wait. But I can very much wait for a critical discussion with my predecessor. If Mrs. Moser claims that Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer is driving to Brussels and at home does not actually deal with the policy of democracy, then she should have gone away from the fact that, as part of the negotiations in the Special Committee on Genetics and Technology, a novel on the genetic engineering law of the Federal Minister Prammer has been reviewed and in this novel – I would recommend you look at these novels – there are certainly interests of popular desire and the supporting platform. Unfortunately, the members of the platform were not present at the last special committee meeting, I hope they will be back at the next committee meetings to discuss with them. In any event, measures requested by the supporters of the popular desire are included in this novel. Furthermore, I mean in all areas, but especially in the field of genetic technology and biotechnology: If we really want to come to the implementation you have referred to, we must work together to bring about a clarification of the discussion. I do not think that we will be able to reach the appropriate objectives if we are talking emotionally and in keywords about the matter, but we must go into the depths. To this end, we have unanimously decided on a roadmap in the special genetic engineering committee, with expert hearings and a final meeting. Mr Barmüller, if I have understood him correctly, said that we will not only need a final meeting but probably two. As a result of the expert hearings, the knowledge of Members, as I believe, has increased accordingly to all political groups, and it is also possible to adopt clear legislative directives in the event of a genuinely objective debate. I still think of Mr Schweitzer. He said here at the speaker's desk that Mr Bundeskanzler Klima was not right in his remarks that there was no possibility of moratorium. It is true that there is the possibility of a moratorium, but it is only in each individual case to decide. And I believe that it would not be the right way to get to a moratorium in each individual case, but the right path, which has now been taken by the Federal Government with the genetic engineering law novel, with the novel to the genetic engineering law in the near future, as far as liability and product liability are concerned, is to set clear guidelines and clear legislative measures. Now I have to address Mrs Fraud-Kallat. When it comes to jobs in these technology areas, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said, not only once, but several times by representatives of the companies that are researching and working in these areas, that they are not afraid of being liable for liability measures, they are not afraid of legislative measures, but they want clear measures. And we have to create these clear measures together after an objective discussion, so that there is legal certainty for consumers on the one hand and for operators, for the applicants on the other. After five times a request for release and five times an abuse, I do not think it is necessary to make five more requests, which will then be withdrawn, but we should, in the meantime – and I am confident that we will succeed by the middle of the year – create legal opportunities so that applicants have legal certainty so that the liability issue is regulated and therefore consumers have legal certainty. Some things can still be done by then. But we should not ignore one thing either, especially when we talk about jobs, and especially when, as Mrs Collaborator, we talk about jobs in agriculture: Not all agricultural jobs will be sustainable with biotechnology. Most of the Austrian jobs in agriculture – and we know this is evidenced by the Green Report, which we know from broadcasts of interest representatives – are in organic farming. Organic agriculture has become known throughout Europe and thus also in Austria for the freedom of genetic engineering. And these farmers, we must give these farmers the opportunity to stay there. That is why the invitation or call is also made to our coalition partner, with whom we have brought up some difficult negotiations to amend the motion for a resolution on the Release Directive, to continue in this area. I am optimistic, as I have said, that we will succeed together in taking legislative measures by the middle of this year which are in line with the intentions of popular desire which do not harm our economy and which also provide legal certainty to our consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14078	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is now speaking. You have a speaking time of 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14099	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur Dear Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I have not understood your urgent question to the Federal Chancellor. When it comes to working in committees in Parliament, it is not the first instance of the Federal Chancellors. I thought that the Green Group in particular does not have this hierarchical thinking, but also operates itself where it is responsible for an area itself. In this case, it is not possible to ask the Chancellor why there is nothing going on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, Mrs Petrovic, particularly the Coalition Government is often accused of being passed so quickly that we have to take all our concerns into account. And especially in the areas that are involved in the three popular desires, the genetic engineering people's desire, the animal welfare people's desire, but also in the women's people's desire, there are many different opinions and opinions. And what does democracy mean? . Nothing but to discuss the various opinions in a subcommittee of Parliament. I can understand that this is going to be too slow there and there, especially if one wants only his own opinion, if it costs what it wants, and if one does not want to respond to the concerns of others. I understand, under democracy, that one listens to and weighs each other and also, through the addition of experts, considers all for and against, so that the politicians, namely the Members of the Committees, can form a corresponding opinion. Democracy means talking to each other and not simply saying that it takes a little too long to get out of a committee. I feel that this is a democratic misbehavior of the proponents of these popular desires. I cannot imagine that the signatorys of these people's desires are going to vote for it, because no one who signs wants it to be chicken-push, but that we are deeply advised and find correct solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Moser spoke here about "on-the-long-bank shifts" and so on. To this end, I would like to say the following: Mrs. Dr. Moser! I met you at your first appearance here in Parliament as an expert Member. But today's speech was anything but expert. I really regret that you, who normally act with expertise here, have not done so today, and I hope that in your next statements you will make here, your expertise will be expressed again and not just polemics. Mrs Schaffenrath! They have meant that there should be a corresponding state objective in the federal constitution regarding the desire for women's people. We should consider this very carefully. In our federal constitution, we do not have a state objective. We have the same right, for whomever Austrian or for which Austrian, whether female, disabled or not, we have the same rights for all. If one wants to have a state objective now, then one must change the federal constitution. That must also be said. Women and men have equal rights in this state, we do not need a new provision. I think that too must be said. When the women's desire was imposed, it was said: Although not all the demands in the women's people's desire are "right" – under quotation marks – or enforceable or thoughtful, they should be a signal to the women. But signals for women can not only be anchored by law. They're far more cumbersome. Such signals should also be given in society. A number of things have already happened in this regard. However, public opinion is not at all spoken about in the media. Women's promotion measures in establishments, for example: For several years, starting in the Styria, there is an action "taten instead of words". There, businesses are awarded special support for women, businesses where there are family-friendly jobs, women-friendly jobs. What businesses are already doing in this direction, in all areas, whether large or small, is simply not spoken. Again: This does not have to be anchored by law, it must be a living practice. That lacks it. It is not about making new laws always, but it must be living practice in the establishments. The companies should not only be "dimmed" by law, but should be motivated. The motivation, however, which has gone from the Styria, by Mrs Ridi Steiblaus, is simply ignored. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs. Colleague! As far as animal welfare is concerned, it also says: Evil ÖVP! – No, not you, Mrs Schaffenrath, forgive me! – The evil ÖVP, it says, is not for a federal animal protection law! [[New call of the abg. Schaffenrath.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a state, in the Republic of Austria, where there are countries, and these too have rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] And country rights, Mr Kostelka, are also subject to animal welfare. But, ladies and gentlemen – and this is interesting for me, because I have not heard any commotion in our society yet – we also have different youth protection provisions in the individual states, and no one has said that we need a central common law on the protection of young people. There are very different rules in this regard in the individual Länder, but no one has cried out: The youth is the same throughout Austria, the children are the same, that must all be uniform! There are laws in the country, and I believe that we must also discuss them openly, and not only because it is currently opportune not to consider how the rules are in the individual countries. There is probably an animal welfare there. Especially in Germany, the Greens – forgive you – are going to house in television shows what good animal welfare regulations we have in Austria. In Austria, however, one wants to see it differently because one simply makes a lobbying in this direction and people are not properly informed. As a politician and as a politician, we have the task of informing people honestly, and this, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish you from the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14213	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14235	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has certainly been achieved in the meantime up to Mr and Mrs Österreicher: that the Austrian government as a whole, and in particular one of the two government parties, has no special pleasure if the people desire political correction. It looked a little different at the beginning than it was about women's popular desire. However, ladies and women were invited by the initiators of the two large government parties; the ÖVP was then exonerated. But it was really a novum that this women's popular desire was also supported and signed by Social Democratic Members. The Minister for Women has always expressed her support openly. It was therefore quite grotesque – if one speaks of the truth and of informing and so on – that, after the completion of the women's desire, there was a pension reform at the expense of women, and this pension reform, of course, has also found the agreement of the representatives of the social-democratic groups who previously signed this women's desire. It was not grotesque for us liberals, because we expected it, but it certainly was a first uncertainty for the initiators of the women's people's desire, who had a greater expectation because of the participation of social democrats and because of the approval of the Minister. From the very beginning, we women of freedom were not involved in this women's popular desire, and that certainly is not because we are particularly extreme women or, as we say in Tyrol, especially "shy women's leader". That has quite different reasons. We free women have had a slightly different approach to women's policy from the start, a pragmatic approach. I am very pleased that precisely these subcommittee meetings in the Committee on Equal Opportunities have shown that this pragmatic approach to Austrian women's policy is actually the right one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, an expert nominated by the SPÖ, Ziniel, said that women's concerns must, of course, also be borne by men. It was a matter of course for us liberals to also nominate a man for the Committee on Equal Opportunities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also had more pragmatic approaches from the content. We really have always been more important to the economic improvement of women, Mrs Schaffenrath, than the enforcement of a dead right of equal treatment which you always call for. But we also, when we learned of this women's popular desire, first formulated a pragmatic approach. We have formulated our ideas directly in requests and submitted them to Parliament – the right way for us as parliamentarians –: our requests 330, 462, 463, which are about women's employment, child training, the partnership of pension reform, a better compatibility of family and profession – according to the notions of free women, of course. Why did we do that? – Because from the beginning we were of the opinion that a fairly large part of these demands of women’s desire is simply not feasible. That is why we have not adopted a general recommendation, although many women of freedom have also supported this popular desire. As far as the support of popular desire is concerned, Mrs Schaffenrath has today very beautifully "screwd" the curve for the Liberal Forum. Why? – Because, thanks to the expert opinion, she has now noticed that it was probably right to support it in principle, but not in the individual points. The majority of the population has also agreed on these points. And if the initiators are now disappointed about a move, I must say that this criticism can only be addressed to the Social Democrats because they have also carried these demands from the very beginning. From a liberal point of view, this work is very useful in the subcommittees. There, well-known experts, female and male experts from all couleurs have already shown some solutions, which we also accept as liberals, but which, of course, are still politically to be voted on. We accept this procedure because we believe that this debate at the expert level should have taken place a long time ago. We agree that this discussion at expert level should also be made public, because Austrian women should be informed of the expert opinions. Only that can be a serious basis for a women's policy of the future in Austria, and this very serious basis has so far been missed by Austrian women's policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14307	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. 9 minutes left to speak for you. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14328	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer your instructive words, Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Faith You also do not know that opposition politicians can tear the patience even if they know that committees are deliberately delayed, such as in the protection of animals? [[Contradiction of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Yes! I found your words in the direction of the Greens very unfair. It is certainly not my way of defending the greens, but it is a fact that is delayed in the animal welfare subcommittee, which is deliberately delayed. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: And what does the Federal Chancellor have to do with it?]] Then one may also ask questions to the Federal Chancellor, who is responsible for everything. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Not for Parliament!]] In any case, from our point of view, it is not enough, like the ÖVP, to repeatedly call for improved animal welfare. It is also not enough for us, Mrs Colleague, to repeatedly appeal for a uniform animal welfare law. I am almost sorry to the colleague from the SPÖ, who always speaks for animal welfare, for her words are not heard in the committees. I believe that this is very unsatisfactory for a social democrat. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! Do something! Calls and promises are of no use. Nearly 500 000 signatorys and signatorys of these demands deserved to be done. These are the demands of citizens from all the federal states, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder. We know that the demands of the citizens are not in line with our national governments in the federal states, because it is not acceptable to these "Kaisers" and because they simply put a falsely understood federalism – I too am federalist – on animal protection. This must be said again and again by me. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We also know that all the well-known experts, with the exception of the ÖVP, have repeatedly voted in favour of a federal animal welfare law. In addition to popular desire, there are, and we know, a number of requests on this subject from all opposition parties and from the larger government party. Even last week in the Subcommittee, with one exception, all the experts invited agreed that uniform rules would be the only meaningful. Even a representative of a federal state, a national council dealing with animal welfare, was surprised by the previous Article 15a agreements regarding the different standards and the shortcomings in the field of animal welfare. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! - She's not here now. If it is honest, it must admit that, despite Article 15a, there is still a different handling of farm animals. Ladies and gentlemen! We are slowly getting tired of starting over and over again and discussing new Article 15a agreements, and that is where the new draft, which was put on the table shortly before the beginning of the subcommittee meeting, is a draft which deals in general and in particular with the non-agricultural sector. In our view, pets and circus animals must also be protected liberals, and improvements must also be made in this area. But if parts of agriculture, hunting, trapping and fur breeding are still excluded, that is not enough for us. It is equally important, in our view, if not even more important, that criteria be laid down for the hundreds of thousands of pigs, for example for swamp and water turtles. The arguments against Article 15a agreements in the past are also on the table, and in our understanding these also apply to the new ones to be decided. These are voluntary agreements, of which every federal state can say goodbye at any time. In addition, implementation into nine different national laws is bureaucratic and expensive, and it would take a very long time for them to be implemented in all countries. It is also to be feared that the new Article 15a agreements, similar to those for farmed animals, will lead to low standards. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also clearly imitators in the European Union as regards a federal law on animal welfare. Even the larger countries eligible for Easter enlargement, such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, already have uniform federal animal welfare laws. Foreign Minister Schüssel is proud of the fact that a protocol on animal welfare is now primarily anchored in the EU. However, he does not want to draw the consequences for the welfare of the animals. Otherwise, the behaviour of the Austrian People's Party is not comprehensible. In conclusion: From our point of view, the last subcommittee, with its wretched debates on this subject, has clearly shown to us, that popular desire for a uniform animal welfare law is delayed for so long that it expires at the end of the legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government Party! Is that your concept of democracy? Is this your work for the Austrian people? It is about 460 000 clear and unwashed messages from our citizens. I am convinced that there will be much more support for this issue in further activities. In any case, we Liberals will support everything that has to do with meaningful animal welfare improvements. We can also imagine making a request for a referendum in this context, and I am convinced that other opposition parties could join in. Although our Constitution does not yet provide for this, it must at least be discussed. That's our concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14406	The next speaker is Mrs Aumayr. – Madam honourable Member, your club still has a speaking time of 5 minutes. You need two minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14428	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs Motter, if you are serious about what you have just said here, you can agree to our motion for a resolution which is free now, because it goes exactly in this direction. Mrs Moser has to be right when she says that the coalition makes mistakes if she simply ignores these signatures. – Yes, that’s right, the coalition makes mistakes. But what we do to citizens in this country is unbearable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 2.2 million people are signing a total of three popular desires, and there is a real danger that these 2.2 million signatures will simply be shubbled. The result is: The voters are becoming increasingly frustrated, more and more disappointed and simply turned away from politics. That's a very logical consequence. And then lament the political insanity in this country! They only abuse the voters more to vote for. But if they express their opinion on certain areas of politics in popular desire, you will not at all be interested in it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This feeling is, of course, reinforced by the statements of various government politicians. It is a real scandal of democracy when SPÖ Finance Minister Edlinger lets the Austrians face the running camera in the Euro-Volksbehren: Even if 1 million voters sign this popular desire – we are not interested! We, the Unity Party, do whatever we want, no matter how many people sign it! – This opinion of the government politicians is now being felt by the 2.2 million citizens in this country. In order to prevent such a development from happening in the future, we are bringing forward a motion for a resolution for a resolution that really goes towards direct, lived democracy for the citizen. It is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If the demands of red and black are serious, then there is no argument that you are voting against this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14509	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Aumayr, which is sufficiently supported, is the subject of the negotiations. Mr. Dr. Pumberger! You're the next speaker. You've got two minutes to talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14533	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the concerns expressed in the various popular desires of recent years are taken seriously by the red-black unity party is hardly anyone else in this country. The three popular desires raised today are most evident, with the animal welfare people's desire taking place two years ago and still being dragged away; very clearly this is also evident in the genetic engineering people's desire. You simply don't dare to tell the operators, and especially the 1.2 million signers of popular desire, that you can't realize any of the three main points of popular desire, even if you wanted to: First, you don't want to, and second, you can't. You can do point 1: No longer implement "no food from the gene laboratory" now; it would have been long ago, before popular desire, at least during popular desire, or immediately thereafter, to the citizens who have signed it to pour pure wine. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Point 2: "No release of genetically modified organisms in Austria" is also generally not possible. The Federal Chancellor has also said today that he is against a general ban on release. But Minister for the Environment Bartenstein has voted in favour of a general ban on release until the liability arrangements have entered into force. That would be a minimum requirement to which the government could stand up, but you are also unable to do so. At point 3: "No patent on life" you have already duly failed in the person of Federal Minister Farnleitner in Europe, because he has agreed to the patenting directive in Brussels without If and But. Therefore – rightly! – the initiators of the genetic engineering people’s desire have been removed from this Special Committee. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] If you continue to do so in the future, you will be responsible for this alone – the red and black one party. However, they will no longer be supported in the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14586	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. – Ladies and gentlemen! The speaking time that remains for you is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14607	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After almost three hours of discussion on the subject of "Direct democracy", I can say that I have a little impression of this debate: All speakers – whether opposition or government groups – have spoken loud and vehemently about how seriously they take this issue. Mrs Rauch-Kallat has actually said how seriously she takes every single signature of these three party-independent peoples' desires over the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that you take every single signature of a popular desire so seriously. I expect that They do so over the period of these three hours today in the afternoon. Above all, I am pleased that the chairman of the Special Committee has so vehemently meant this, because I am always optimistic and I am more inclined to look forward than to see everything pessimisticly – still movement in the matter. The main point of this afternoon's declaration, on the one hand the initiative of the Greens in the form of this urgent question to the Federal Chancellor, but also, on the other hand, a little to guard the Members, is, in my opinion, the question of what is really, apart from the content and the ignoring of essential demands, of content priorities, in which one can or is quite different in some areas of opinion, or is, the essential thing when it comes to direct democracy. Especially you, ladies and gentlemen, including my person, you as representatives of the people and representatives of the people, are so happy to talk about the so-called political indifference of the people of Austria, of the fact that people are retreating into private life, no longer active. The parties complain that their officials are not motivated. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you wonder that the people of Austria are going to starve themselves politically? – Party-independent initiatives directly from the base, directly from the population that are as successful as animal welfare, such as genetic engineering, and women's popular desire, are now being taken with feet in the transferred sense, are not taken seriously by the indirect representatives. That's what worries me. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! That we want these verbal conflicts – and, of course, it is a thing of democracy to talk to each other – no one wants to argue, that is clear, that is why we are sitting here. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Colleague: Each individual, not only the exponents, but actually every single one who has signed, is waiting for it to be taken seriously. However, the Signatories feel serious only if they receive appropriate signals and clues and see concrete efforts to implement them. Today I see Mrs. Mathis again and again at the visitor gallery: Most of the people in this country will be the shelterers. On a subject such as animal protection – oh, so dear – where I mean that you have to meet across all ideological boundaries, which could be completely unpolitical – now I'm caricadizing myself – not even there, yes, most difficult there, there is a further development. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned that the political indifference, the rejection of politics, the dissatisfaction with the political parties – even with the small and with the oppositional parties – is increasing when we do not, at last, place a sign here in the National Council and in the committees, so that those two million people who, through their signature – by name, letter and seal – feel serious about their concerns. It's not too late yet. Members of the Committees are still very active and very excited, although some of the speakers have already left the committees because of disappointment. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] Now it is up to us to support this initiative for direct democracy. We do this even so...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14652	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14670	That is the final point. . We support motions for resolutions even of the liberals with whom nothing connects us, because direct democracy is our concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14700	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the implementation of successful popular desires. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on the response to the question 3220/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14745	We are now coming to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Defence, who carries the order number 3220/AB. This answer has already been distributed. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. I recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on speaking time: No speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, except for the first speaker, who is the founder of this request and who has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Comments by members of the government or by State secretaries notified in writing should also not exceed 10 minutes. I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The floor which will open the debate as an applicant for the request. The honourable Member, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14776	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks there have been a number of questions from Members of this House to the Minister of Defence concerning his announcements of closing barracks and disbanding units of the Austrian federal army. There were not only requests from this House, but there have been decisions in the country days, there have been debates by national leaders across all parties. There were concerns about the fact that these considerations of the Minister of Defence were not in fact in line with what the broad majority of the political groups in that country were proposing under a thoughtful reform of the army. One of these questions – it is symptomatic of the problem and also of the problem of your answers – was the request by Mr Lacner regarding the barracks in Bludesch and the hunter regiment 9 in Vorarlberg. Mr. Minister of Defence! You have written in the answer to the question: No, the Kaserne Bludesch will not be closed, the hunter regiment 9 will probably not be abolished either, but that's just one of many variants that you're superior to in your resort. There will also be no reduction in the number of groundmen in Vorarlberg. What's the whole excitement for? It's all right. – An entirely harmless answer, Minister of Defence. Only: Reality looks different. The reality is that you, Mr Minister of Defence, are still holding to these plans within your department and are continuing to prepare for the implementation of these plans, that you are piling from force to force and that you are already referring to the new tasks of the respective units and are encouraging the governments to continue to participate in these planning processes – as if there had been no Council of State Defense. Mr. Minister of Defence! At this meeting of the Council of State Defense, it was clearly noted that your alleged decision on this military conversion, which you announced last year, was not a decision, but the opening of a discussion process, which you have announced will involve all the political forces in this country and, above all, those involved. Federal Minister! What would have been the consequence of this decision by the Council of State Defense? – The consequence would at least have been that you stop all the implementation steps you have already had for your plans once and that you will also, above all, take back the corresponding issues because they do not have any legal basis. You haven't done that so far, Minister of Defence. There you are. It is still true that there are no service assignments and no personnel assignments for those units you would like to disband. Mr. Minister of Defence! When do you finally lift those illegal decisions? They violate the law. They violate the recommendation of the Council of State Defense, and you are in breach of the principle of support for your own troops, the soldiers who are increasingly insecure. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! The whole... – He always laughs. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He laughs!]] That's the problem! He finds everything funny, he finds everything laughing, while at the team... – You're not going anymore! ==References====External links== Panzergrenadier brigade instead, which you also want to dissolve. Highly motivated, high - performance soldiers are there, 3,000 people were there! They are horrified at these plans that are going to take place. There have also been the relevant reports. There was a talk of a specktrum of the army administration, of unconceptional sandbox games, of the Moloch Federal Ministry of State Defense. These are not statements of opposition, these are statements of your soldiers who are asking for support that you have denied them, Minister of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate that has taken place after these alleged decisions, which began around the future of Austrian defence, can only be described as embarrassing. That is only the question of which of the two government parties will reduce more in our national defence, who will resolve which association faster, who will save more posts of service and who will save more money, which would actually be necessary to equip our federal army properly. Mr. Minister of Defence! What you are doing – certainly with the support of your coalition partner – is the disassembly dismantling of our national defense, the disassembly disassembly of a federal army that has demonstrated in so many past missions, what important support and what important service can be provided to the community. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Security is the foundation of every state. You should pay attention to this first! They should take proper measures so that this federal army can also fulfil its mandates. However, instead of discussing how we can provide this army with ideas and material support, you are depressing the last idealists, destroying functioning units and misusing with your coalition partner the federal army for your party-tactic disputes and your party-tactic sham cap. Mr. Minister of Defence! They have ordered a reclassification discussion without waiting for the decision on the new orders. It would be important to discuss our national defence. It would be important to discuss the extent to which this federal army is still ready to use, to what extent our soldiers would still have the means of survival in the case of serious cases, to what extent the existing infrastructure still allows the order to be completed. But, Minister of State, you are neglecting all of this in a pathetic way. There is the Mech package that we all have decided together, there are several parts of this Mech package. We are waiting for the necessary wheel tanks that have been decided in the Council of State Defense – without a call for tender. The order should be given to an Austrian company. Now suddenly I read that your speaker Dr. Schiffinger thinks that the army needs 110 wheel tanks – that is half of what we have decided – and there will be an international call for proposals because Steyr is too expensive and it is therefore completely unclear and uncertain whether Steyr – an Austrian company – will still receive these orders. Mr. Minister of Defence! What matters Your word still? What are the decisions of the Council of State Defense? What counts Your agreements with the coalition partner? You have to answer that too, because it is about a device that is absolutely necessary for the force. But it is important to you that you delete these functioning units, that you remove pioneer units with a dash that is absolutely necessary in the protection of disasters. These are all your goals, without considering what is really necessary for the Austrian defence of the country. Federal Minister! It's time for you to finally deal with your coalition partner, but actually that's all going on: They argue in public, pretend that you are active, and finally there is another agreement in the silent chamber, and nothing goes on. Federal Minister! Stop with this unworthy party discussion on the back of the state defense, take back these illegal decisions in your department regarding the "Religion New New" and finally, together with this Parliament, take a policy decision on the future of Austrian security policy, especially with a view to possible and hopefully likely accession to NATO, and then – all the political forces in this country – we will deal with the involvement of the experts concerned with a comprehensive restructuring of our army, but not according to the dictatorship of empty cash, but with the needs of a national defense that can fulfill the task of ensuring the security of Austria and its population in the best possible way!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14833	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven spoke. Minister! I shall give you the floor and remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, speech by members of the government should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Scheibner! I know that it is quite populist, then if there are innovations to take account of the feelings of those concerned; Feelings that usually go in the direction that as little as possible is changed, because each change in itself already brings certain inconveniences. I say to you that anyone who does not push out the necessary changes, not only in the federal army, but in general in the state where public administration is negated at all, certainly does not do a good job, the Republic of Austria and the army, because it prevents the necessary and important steps being taken for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] If you're pretending to be something very special today, I have to tell you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Disassembly is not a reform!]] The American army organizes, the German Bundeswehr organizes, the French army organizes, the Swiss army organized around, the Italians, the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Hungarians – all armies of the world organized around, because it is necessary to bring about changes due to the fundamental changes in the geostrategic situation, and because, of course, it is also necessary, on the other hand, to take account of the principle of economic efficiency and the principle of sparcy in all matters, in order to have the means to bring about necessary acquisitions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Disassembly, no reform!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are also armies that can be reformed! You broke her!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I very much accept what you have put forward here and take every single statement seriously and respect it because it comes from a certain point of view. But I would like to tell you the following: A few years ago, I took the first necessary step of the reorganisation of the army: the transition from space defense to a cross-border defence dispositive, the change in mobilization, the change of regimes, reintegration in different areas. And I have experienced at that time how the people concerned, many mayors and other bodies have taken a stand against it, because they believed that the changes would bring them special inconveniences. However, they soon recognized the importance of these changes and finally responded to them very positively. And so it will be now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Of course: First, one is skeptical about changes, but as soon as they are decided, one will not only depend on them, but also recognize the benefits of the new organization very clearly. It will be recognized that this brings a great deal for the security of our country and especially for the economic operation and thus for the equipment of the federal army. You have raised the point today that I have issued a decree stating that the individual departments can no longer be admitted freely in certain quotas, as is usual. I would like to say to you: I have already issued a first such decree in May of last year, which has included the central offices, the ministry and the offices, because it is necessary to take control of a forward-looking personnel policy and in certain situations to ensure that any relocation can be controlled accordingly in order to have the right organization. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: But then this must apply to everyone, Minister!]] What I'm looking for now is the following: We have already presented a situation report here a year ago, which was adopted by this House, which announced the necessary changes, namely reduction in the central office, in various commanders, reorganisation, conversion to the hunting force and specialization for the new tasks, and which have also been very clear and decided by this House. Now we are doing this, and you should take note of this as the opposition party. I am trying to stop delaying this process, and I can tell you that this step is not only correct but absolutely necessary. It will result in the Austrian federal army being able to meet its new tasks as best as possible in the future and at the same time being able to carry out the necessary purchases despite the savings packages. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do they look like, Minister of Defense?]] Of course, we need to make a contribution to this, and we are also ready to do so. We do not separate ourselves from general government objectives. If all citizens have to save, then the federal army has to do it, and for that I acknowledge. In order for the necessary resources to be really made available to guarantee the security of the country, we must reorganise, we must implement certain rationalizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would ask you not to delay this process in order to be able to carry it out as quickly and as best as possible in the interests of the security of our country, in the interests of the federal army and its soldiers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e14986	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that the speaking time of all the speakers following this debate is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the friends of the FPÖ have taken a reply to a question, a comprehensive reply to a parliamentary question to discuss structural reforms, because the answer to the question has been clear and clear that there will be no closure of the Kaserne Bludesch. Allow You are therefore also asking me to make some basic findings on the sites of the Federal Army. The location concept is not yet available. As the Federal Minister has assured us, it is still working on the details. It should be sought that this location concept goes far beyond a mere closing list, as it was then published in the "Kurier" – this list has led to various discussions and uncertainty. That would be too little for us. What we need is a location concept that sets out the barracks, exercise areas and storage capacities required for the Federal Army. This concept must also be oriented to the army, adapted to the army. It is necessary to ensure current accommodation and training facilities, with special attention being paid to the regional contingency, Mr Federal Minister. In particular, the regional, social and economic circumstances must be taken into account. If this concept of the Federal Ministry is present, we will take a close look at it and make our determinations after the most detailed discussion. What we need, Minister of State, has been said repeatedly, is a reasonable army reform with comprehensive structural changes, which goes beyond a mere change in organisation, such as in the confidential paper you published in October at a press conference. The implementation was arranged in this paper. They have declared in the Council of State Defence – without questioning the confidentiality of this body here – that it is an internal planning process, one will discuss this paper. I therefore hope that what Mr Scheibner said will not take place in the form of a work on this implementation, but that it should be what you have explained: a basis for discussion. That is why we have also seen a call for a position paper to be put in place as a basis for discussion. And I am convinced that we will come to a common approach, despite blatants and screams, for various misinterpretations. I would like to keep my mind straight and clear: There has never been a desire by the Social Democrats for budget cuts, as was then presented by Mr Vice-Chancellor: 20 percent of the budget is to be reduced. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's not true!]] There has never been this demand for our part, on the contrary, we stand by this budget, we have also called for it and we have decided together here in this House – and we hold fast to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It never became one on our part – this is another clarification –... – No, no, Mr. Dr. Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thus a Saul becomes Paul! He's had his Damascus experience!]] You will not have heard anywhere – I can't believe it at all – that a budget cut by 20 percent has been required by us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 4 billion! Under Cap 7 billion!]] We've never stepped in for a halve. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] We demand a reduction in staff and also the sale of non-needed properties. These funds, which can be saved here – we have said – are intended to be used to modernise soldiers' accommodation and training facilities and to provide the necessary scope for procurement – for procurement that serves the protection and security of the soldier. But we never spoke the word for a reduction in the budget, dear friend! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have that of defending the ÖVP!]] No, I will not do that, but I would simply like to make clarifications here, because there have been conscious misinterpretations. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Mr President, we are dealing with an increase in the efficiency of investment in the quality of the army. I believe that we will ensure, together, a standard which will continue to guarantee the security of the Austrian population. That's what we're for.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15108	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15130	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Fink: This is one who speaks for the Federal Army!]] The aim of today's question debate and this debate is to discuss the federal army's structural adjustment. For about three years now, Mr Scheibner has been talking about reform, about proper measures. Every approach that comes from the Federal Ministry says: If not! and it is shown artificial indignation. The only counter-proposal today was to take proper action – whatever that may mean. [[Abg. Scheibner: You know our suggestions!]] I am in favour of discussing it on the basis of concrete proposals. I recall why this structural adjustment must be made first because of the current security situation in Europe, second because of the situation report which was taken note of in February of this year in the National Council and in October of this year in the Federal Council, and third because of the creation of a future-oriented flexible and open army structure which is suitable for all tasks – including those that will stand in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't decide!]] I say it absolutely, ladies and gentlemen: A low point in the ongoing discussion between the government parties was undoubtedly the comments of the clubman Kostelka on 13 and 14. Years this year after the club, that is, about a week ago. This climate and content low has stated the following: Kostelka and the SPÖ Group or parts of this group want the halve of the German army, the closure of a third of all barracks, the halving of the federal army's leadership structure and a number of other measures. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who wants that?]] Vice-Chancellor Schüssel and Minister Fassleven immediately explained their position clearly and incomprehensiblely. Because of its stability, this proposal for halving is back from the table! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also expressly thank German Chancellor Klima, who, as party chairman, has rejected this halvion of the German army, due to the clear positioning – once again – of Schüssel and Fassleven. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And under pressure!]] And I also say: It would have been much better for me a week earlier, because we would have saved ourselves a lot of uncertainty in the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What particularly shaken me in the TV interview of the clubman Kostelka after the Salzburg clause, was that he deliberately made a comparison with false figures between the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria, which had to give the public the impression that Germany was ten times as big – that was the only thing that really is true – like Austria – from the number of inhabitants – but it would have the same structure on the question of the staff, on the question of the locations, on the question of the central offices. It is true that Kostelka has made a public statement against better knowledge, which has caused damage to the German army and Austria. I would ask you to take this back in all clarity and also to clarify what it is all about. [[Call to the SPÖ: Do not intertwine herb and beetroot!]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the People's Party, we have three important positions in this necessary structure: We want to fix a task-oriented army, a task-oriented mobile organization to 110 000 men, including the reserve. We want a streamlining of the commanders and staffs and a reduction of the offices and their staff levels – quite clearly – and we want an improved differentiation between the Federal Force's tasks of presence and territorial tasks. Because our commitment to the population is to do everything we can to ensure first of all the best possible peacekeeping by our army, and secondly, in the case that we do not wish for all of us, if there are real threats from the outside, our soldiers also have a chance to avoid these dangers. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15248	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15269	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, two comments on the statements made by the Federal Minister. First of all, to the complaint that the necessary reorganisations are taking place all over the world. – Minister! At the reorganisation you certainly do not prevent the Freedom Party, but this must happen in an orderly form, not as a prescribed form, but after a discussion which is to take place. And actually prevents it from happening. You don't care, at most – I don't know – the coalition partner sometimes, but sometimes you have the feeling that you yourself are always a leg and that's why it doesn't go on. Secondly, You mentioned earlier how you could convince the mayors. Look at your own mayor of Grieskirchen, colleague Grossruck, who told you the following: Take your plans, put them in the tank cabinet, and cut the key far away. – Performance You have a persuasion in your own party, Mr. Federal Minister, and do not regret us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Großruck: I didn't say that!]] Minister! You are always very thin when it comes to instilling criticism of your answers to your questions, the real subject of this debate. ==References== In the following way, I quote from the Minutes: I have answered some of your questions five times, but you always ask the same question. I assume that Mr Jung will return to his letter. Federal Minister! This time I did not have to write, because there are protocols which I will explicitly show you by means of an example, how you consciously or out of inability say the untruth. I take the example of the ammunition of the combat tank Leopard when it was acquired. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] This is embarrassing to you, and it will be much more embarrassing when I'm done with it. When this was created, we have, because a tank without ammunition is worthless, on the 17th. February 1997 asked how it would be. I quote literally: Was the procurement of the device also carried out at the same time as the necessary ammunition procurement? Federal Minister! They replied: Of course – at the beginning of last year – the ammunition necessary for the use of the weapon system was acquired. We were, after receiving other information, suspicious and have on the 11th. ==References====External links== They replied: The necessary expenses for the ammunition are estimated in the 1998 budget, i.e. later, only in the following year, under heading 4591. I looked at that. The post, which has already been shortened in there, probably would not even have been for the ammunition of the leopard alone. That is why we continued to be skeptical. – Now we already have two different data. ==References== We asked again on December at the National Council meeting how the procurement looked out; this time it was Mr Schöggl. I quote from the record again. He asks: How much ammunition is available per vehicle, and is the ammunition actually available? They say: The tanks will not go to the force until next year, i.e. 1998. And at this point, the question of the set-up with ammunition still does not arise. – First she had already gotten, then she was bought this day, and then we hear, the question doesn't ask at all. Minister! Don't you know what you're replying, or do you deliberately tell this House the untruth? I've offered it to you several times, you can complain outside. I will then tell you outside how to really call this form of untruth-sagen in the folk mouth. You don't trust yourself because you know it's not true. Federal Minister! With these untruths you will not continue. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: Not at all!]] You can still be so upset. It is! Show me. Minister! It's in the protocol here. You have deliberately said the untruth or you do not know what is going on in your place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! That's not a single case now. We can always show you such a request. It is not the first, and it will not be – I promise you – the last. It is only in this way that you can show how you deal with your place of business, how you deal with the Members, what you think of this House and what you have a very strange concept of democracy. Minister! In the army you are written down anyway and in this house – you see it yourself – in large areas as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] On the comments of Mr Gaál another half sentence. He really cooperates constructively in this committee. And that you haven't already slipped out more than you are anyway, you owe thanks to the support of the SPÖ and the colleague Gaál you have had. Minister! We won't leave you alone, I promise. Perhaps it will be useful and valuable to publish a white paper with your collected untruths. We'll gather there, Minister. If you're still ministers for a long time, maybe it's going to be a bit of a good job to do that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15344	Mr Hans Helmut Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This brief discussion has shown, Mr Federal Minister, that in your eight-year term of service as Minister of Defense – you are particularly proud of these – you have actually succeeded in losing political consensus on matters of defence and security policy, and that, because of your actions and your behaviour towards Parliament, to the other political parties, whether it is the coalition partner or the opposition, the basis for cooperation has been deliberately announced. And I particularly regret this in the sense and in the interest of Austrian defence. [[Abg. Zweytick: Very sad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you are obviously in trouble, Mr Zweytick, is really unfortunate. It is also regrettable that on such an important issue as defence and security policy it is not possible to achieve political consensus, and for that Minister Fassleven alone bears political responsibility. [[Abg. Zweytick: It's embarrassing for a giver...!]] [[Abg. Zweytick: As the spokesperson of a democratic party, this is embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the answer to the parliamentary question, I must say quite honestly, Mr Federal Minister, either the untruth is deliberately said here or you do not know what is happening in the place or what considerations you should consider in terms of planning. I take only the answer to the parliamentary question raised by Mr Lacner, for there is a point 2: The current status of the restructuring does not yet permit a definitive statement, or the planned restructuring is carried out with the greatest possible consideration on the existing framework level. Federal Minister! It's a statement of how you answer the questions. In fact, you've already decided. In reality, you have already ordered the implementation of your decisions. In the Council of State Defense, you had to admit that it was actually not correct that this order was not in conformity with constitutional law. That is why your requests are unconstitutional, Minister of State. In the Defence Council you have agreed to this, you have also promised that you will take the necessary steps. That is why I would also ask from this point of view – my previous speakers have already mentioned – that you remove these issues – both the planning decision and the further implementing decisions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You don't believe that yourself!]] Federal Minister! Order with these implementing provisions It is very specific that certain associations no longer have the capacity to take up personnel, no longer carry out transfers. As a result, their framework development is severely impaired and restricted. If you say here that you have to lay down such restrictive measures, I agree with you. If You order these, then you have to order them for the entire federal army, then this must apply to the entire federal army and not to a few associations. These measures destroy and destroy any further necessary and meaningful personnel development. Ladies and gentlemen! It is incomprehensible to me that the Federal Minister states that it is populist to take account of the feelings of those concerned only if one dares to criticise the proposals made by the Minister of Defence. They put us down as if we were against the reform. They also mean those people who also practice internal criticism. Federal Minister! No, everyone knows that reform is necessary. Everyone knows that the German army must be adapted to the new situation. But what everyone wants and what we also demand of you at the political level is that there is an objectively impeccable solution, a coherent solution that focuses on the future tasks of the Federal Army. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Maitz addresses the aims of the Austrian People's Party and says that he wants to fix the task-oriented army, reduce the commanders, improve the differentiation between territorial and present forces and cetera, I can tell you, Mr Maitz, that these objectives are not achieved with the proposal of the Federal Minister. There is no legitimate criticism of such a reform from about Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. There is a legitimate criticism of all days of land because what has been presented... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do we have a Marine because you call Lake Constance and Lake Neusiedler?]] Look It is precisely what the proposals are, but they are likely to lack basic knowledge. What has been presented is a weak solution. Federal Minister! I am just telling you a few points why this is a weak solution. There is no political decision in principle and also the perspective of Austrian security policy. The internal Austrian political framework is lacking. Once again, there is a lack of a financing plan and a social plan. There is no comprehensive reform approach. It is the strategic heavyweight misset. There is no demarcation in the army administration, no demarcation in the central office, a demolition of the mechanized troops and the militia.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15458	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15473	Mr Zweytick! That's reality. That is why we are going to make every effort to ensure that there is a proper reform of the Federal Government. We ask you to do so, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15500	Deputies! Your speaking time has expired. Ladies and gentlemen! I am dealing with the expiry of the speaking time with a certain amount of generosity anyway, but I really ask you to stick to my call to the final sentence. The last speaker in this debate was Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15530	Thank you, Mr Klubobmann Khol. . I could reject this debate and say that sometime the Greens have called for the disintegration of the federal army. The state of the discussion and the coalition partner makes this apprehension or hope. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of security must now of course be re-examined after the changed geopolitical and military situations in Europe, but also throughout the world. It is therefore necessary for the political leaders in Austria to consider what a security concept should be pursued in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is that we are now surrounded by partners, by friends, by neighbors who don't want anything bad for us. There is no Warsaw Pact, and there is a disorientated arms industry that has suffered massive collapses in recent years. There is a halve throughout Europe in the arms industry in sales. However, with its arms industry, the USA has already risen from the supplier to the supplier for 25 percent of the arms for 50 percent of the arms around the world. [[Abg. Zweytick: Russia too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This country is also the most powerful nation and is also leading NATO. The crucial question now arises: How does Austria position itself? – In doing so, the Federal Minister for Defence Fassleven makes the great mistake that he believes he can make a political decision by pushing out, persecuting decisions in the federal army and persecuting decisions which are not yet politically agreed. That's the problem. That is why there is also this request, and therefore there is also the displeasure of those who want to support the Austrian federal army in this form, as it has so far existed, very massively, which is not the position of the Greens. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung's position is correct. I have no agreement with him at all on the subject. It is true, however, that it is not a question of a minister passing out of Parliament which, in the Council of State Defense, is also expressly dismissed by a smooth majority as irrelevant in content, and that this minister continues to pursue these intentions. That is the problem, Mr Klubobmann Khol, that you do not agree with Klubobmann Kostelka and that the speaker of the ÖVP is actually lying to this speaker's voice from Klubobmann Kostelka, ladies and gentlemen. Because it's nothing but an accusation when I say he makes statements against better knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the statement of the speaker of the ÖVP, and that is the condition of the Austrian security discussion. I say to you, with a wide variety of opinions on the assessment of the danger situation, with a wide variety of views on the future use of the budget funds, that this House has a clear position, and only then can you, Mr Federal Minister, as the Federal Minister, issue your allowances and order for individual military divisions that there are barracks closures, that there are reductions in the framework staff, that there are reductions in the command structure and, and, and. But before that, Mr Federal Minister, this is not on the ground of the Constitution and it is decided to reject it. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: He has no idea!]] Mr Wehrsprecher Maitz! That you want to rise with your Ural ÖVP concept speaks against you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that you also think you have to hold a Federal Minister's bar, who is passing Parliament, that is what distinguishes you as undemocratic!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15587	There is no more word message. This debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15608	I now take the negotiations on the 6th. Agenda item on the report by the Economic and Social Committee on the report by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs on the situation in the tourism and leisure sector in Austria in 1996 (1031 of the supplements). Mr Marizzi has spoken. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that he is the last person on the list of speakers in this debate for the time being. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15633	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are now also talking about people, namely those in tourism. It employs 190 000 people in tourism who make 180 billion schilling sales. The upward trend is recognizable, the downward trend is stopped. The product sales, advertising and also regionalization are in the river. I would like to say this to Mr Farnleitner, because Mr Haselsteiner referred to and meant that we need courage to change. But then one must also have courage for restructuring. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In industry we have proved this. The price-performance ratio must also be agreed. It can't be that in Carinthia it costs half a liter of soda citron 56 s. Mrs Haidlmayr is right, because the price-performance ratio is not right. I have to say one thing in the direction of ÖVP: That's why Mr. Landeshuptmann Zernatto should take care of himself. On the one hand, Mr. Landeshuptmann Zernatto said according to "Kurier": Mr Farnleitner has nothing in mind. – I didn’t hear anything from the ÖVP. We think Mr Farnleitner is a cooperative negotiating partner and a competent minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] On the other hand, Mr Landeshuptmann Zernatto, if it is not so good in Carinthia in summer, will finally take care of Carinthia, dear colleague Bauer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to the federal army, you're sad. But when it comes to tourism and the economy, you're in a lot of trouble, that is, Kärntner Scheuklappen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister does not listen to me, he is now sitting on the government bank as a tourism minister. I think I can shorten my speech. I do not see the future of Austrian tourism as negative at all. It depends not only on weather and not on courage, but on cooperation, regionalization and new ideas. I think that we owe it to the 190 000 people working in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15701	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word has not been requested by the rapporteur. I ask you to take the seats, we shall vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-93. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rossmann and Mr Comrades on the rapid implementation of toll relief measures for the use of road sections close to the border. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (739 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Animal Transport Act Air (961 of Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment 508/A (E) by Mrs MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund comrades on the renewal of the Austrian Animal Transport Act (962 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (946 of the Supplements): Animal transport law railway – TGEisb (963 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15793	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting so that we can start the debate immediately. I give the floor to Mr Dr. Salzl as the first speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15821	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years, this House has been dealing with the problem of animal transport. We, in particular, have set up several initiatives in this regard and from the very beginning have called for comprehensive rules on rail, shipping and air transport in addition to road transport. We have already pointed out years ago that this should be done in an overall approach, in a uniform law and possibly before accession to the EU. Unfortunately, this has not happened to God. It would have been possible to negotiate positions for Austria during the EU negotiations. – As has been said, this was unfortunately missed at the time, although many experts pointed out the need for such a comprehensive regime. It was already obvious and clear at the time, and it is now all the more clear that in the EU mainly economic aspects and trade between Member States and that animal welfare, especially in the southern Member States, plays only an extremely subordinate role. The painful and yet EU-subsidized transport of live animals throughout Europe and overseas also proves this. In addition, Commissioner Fischler's statements show that the Austrian animal transport law should be abolished at all, that there are only economic considerations in the EU and that the EU still wants to stick to the subsidized animal torture. In 1996, around 300 million ECU, around 4 billion Schilling, were paid to export refunds, to subsidies for live animals transport. EU-wide, around 500 000 animals were shipped to third countries, especially Lebanon, Egypt and Turkey – not to mention transport within the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands of live animals, especially cattle, are transported across Europe in trucks and transported overseas. They are tormented and hurt, and there is still money on the part of the EU. Since there is nothing to do with a new regulation to link this funding to complying with certain animal welfare standards. Ladies and gentlemen! No one can actually control compliance with these animal welfare standards, especially in third countries. So as long as the funding is far higher than any punishment, there will be no change in the practice of the transport of live animals and of subsidized animal torture, as I say. We liberals are therefore glad that today's animal transport law air is being changed, corrected and that at last the animal transport law railway is to be decided. But above all, we are glad that a resolution which we have tabled, which has been annexed to the report as Appendix 2, is to be adopted today as a joint five-party resolution. It calls on the Federal Minister for Science and Transport to submit to the National Council a report on the development of animal transport in and through Austria over the last five years, taking into account in particular the following points: Development of the volume of transport, the density of surveillance and the number of cases and penalties divided by the border crossings respectively. other control bodies; legal uncertainties and collisions with other domestic or foreign standards, as well as their solution, respectively. (Legal) Proposals on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen! This will make it possible to ensure better monitoring and, above all, better enforcement of animal transport laws in the future. In any case, both the new regulation and this resolution will be happy to give our approval to our liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15882	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15903	High house! Mr President. Federal Minister! With the new animal transport law railway, Austria, I believe, has confirmed its European pioneering role in this area, also in the field of animal welfare. From the point of view of animal welfare, there is now an advanced and comprehensive animal transport system for Austria. I also believe that the Austrian position is based on a very high level and that the new law on railway animal transport, like the other two, that is, road and air, is now in line with the following principles in particular. It is a question of the fact that only transportable animals in Austria must be carried out in an appropriate manner, that the transport must be carried out only by means of animal transport, that the maximum possible protection must be achieved when loading, unloading and loading the animals, and that there is, in particular, a limit of the duration of slaughter animals to six hours. This point was quite controversial. But I think it is essential for a modern regulation of an animal transport law. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to international animal transports, all the pictures of those animals that have arrived at the destination station have certainly remembered half starved and injured. We have also experienced a very massive discussion in the public when people, animal protectionists, were particularly enraged. I think that these maladministrations are quite easy to stop. It can be quite proud that the European ministers have included the Austrian ideas in their political considerations in their tightening of animal welfare during long journeys. Under the new regulations, of course, animal transport with a duration of more than eight hours in the future should now be equipped with a high standard of animal welfare for special vehicles. There should be very clear rules for feeding, water supply and ventilation. Furthermore, exportation of bovine animals to third countries should only be subject to payment of EU funds if the animals arrive in the destination country in a suitable good condition. This is an essential change to the current provisions and is intended to make it impossible for us to have such conditions, which are still in place today, in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! In the transport of live cattle, the question arises: Does it make sense that we are currently leading food over thousands of kilometres from a production site to a slaughter and consumable site, or should we not resort to a system in which quality production in the region is carried out and the regional economy is strengthened? Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖAMTC Academy has found that for hams it takes an average distance from the production site to the consumer of 250 kilometres, for yogurt of 700 kilometres and for cheeses of 700 kilometres. It can just be nonsense that happens. I cannot imagine in the future that this is related to an environmentally sound European transport policy. This means that agricultural support and production support must also be considered. They cannot be multiplied so that we can continue to support such an insanity. I therefore believe that a change will be made in the transport of live animals, and we should consider whether there should not be any relinquishing of the long-distance transport of slaughter animals. Ladies and gentlemen! Control must also be addressed. In this regard, we need improvement, and all five parties in the Committee on Transport have agreed on a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister for Transport to take action, namely by presenting a report on the development of animal transport in the last five years and by reporting on how the situation in Austria, but above all in transport through Austria, is happening. Then we will have the opportunity to analyse the report together and to make any reorganisations or readjustments. Today we can be proud that the Austrian animal welfare, progressive attitude in animal transport also begins to prevail in Europe, and I believe that we should support Mr One in his further efforts in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15965	The next speech is by Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e15986	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group will agree to the amendment of the animal transport law-air and the animal transport law-railway, but of course reject the negative committee report on my request for an improvement of the animal transport law-road. I must say, unfortunately, that, although the Federal Minister responsible for the division of competence is sitting here, as far as political criticism is concerned, it is actually the wrong one. In fact, it fails again and again with the representatives of the Austrian agriculture - I am now saying - and also with the Minister for Agriculture that there is a meaningful reorganisation. It is precisely on a day when we have also discussed the Green Report, which makes it very clear that the small farms are increasingly threatened by their existence, that the number of small farmers is declining, the more incomprehensible why the ÖVP is making itself one-sided as a lobbyist party for some very few wholesalers, while the interests of agriculture, consumers and, last but not least, the animals literally stay on the track. In this respect, I would, of course, like to talk about the necessary improvements in the area of animal transport law street. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Parliamentary Parnigoni has just mentioned very rightly that it is indeed crazy to travel on more and more routes with goods of daily need, and in my view it is really an eye-catching – that is also the consumer – to believe that the few sizes that may cost a cup of yogurt or a bottle of milk are really cheap. Economically, this seemingly cheap yogurt and this seemingly cheaper milk come to us to be very expensive, because, unfortunately, many twenty thousand kilometres of the time are happening with an almost natural safety of any serious accident that costs human life, which demands injury, and thus also leads to increased expenditure of public hands in the field of health care, in the field of hospitals, in the field of rehabilitation. I do not want to talk about the hard-to-calculable environmental costs at all. It's a very expensive nonsense that's being operated on there. But, Mr Parnigoni, there would be a very simple measure to put an end to this insanity. It is not true that the market economy is – it does not expect at all – but it is a state-subsidized crazyness, which is a state-subsidized animal torture, for which there are no reasons. I think that the Socialist Group should be interested in this. 55 percent of the total EU budget is in the agricultural sector, but jobs cannot be maintained there. If that happens, we could still talk about whether it is somehow justified to spend this money, but we lose jobs, we lose product quality, we burden the streets, and we create infinite animal suffering. It doesn't make sense. And especially in times where everything needs to be saved, that would, I think, be a saving measure, in which you would probably have 90 percent of the population and the media behind you. No one wants this except a few lobbyists, but they seem to have a very, very large influence, especially in the Austrian People's Party. I have a question here, which was answered by the EU Commission, Mrs Gradin. It states here that only what has been proved has been done 45 million ECU since 1990. The dark figure is accordingly huge, and it has been shown that the market is incredibly sensitive to these subsidies. That means: Delete these subsidies, and the whole problem is gone! We would also not need all these laws, which we repeatedly decide on. I am very dissatisfied that the proposal I have tabled on improving the transport of animals by road will also be rejected with the votes of the Socialist Group. The reason was the recognition of the Administrative Court, the starting point a complaint from the Board of Directors of Raiffeisen Vieferverwertung Garell-Bösel-Cloppenburg. It is true that the Administrative Court takes the view that criminality exists only with regard to the infringements committed on Austrian territory, at least as far as the Board of Directors of the companies is concerned, not the Lenker. But it is actually about those who economically award these orders. It is true that the instigator's knowledge speaks for itself: Transports with a total duration of 23 hours were stopped 30 minutes, 21 hours 30 minutes and so on. 1 017 kilometers, 1 200 kilometers were driven, that is far beyond the limits of the Austrian law. Every Austrian farmer would be liable for this, but not the foreign entrepreneurs. I really ask the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: What about fairness on the market, what does this have to do with competition if only the Austrian entrepreneurs are threatened with punishment, while the directors of foreign companies are completely free of punishment? The Administrative Court has already indicated in its knowledge a repair in the direction – it must only be written in the law – that criminality also refers to routes and time distances that have been taken abroad. This simple passage could lead to equality between domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, but it seems that there is no interest in it, it is apparent that, through foreign societies, one wants to continue this subsidy madness, including these frauds and all this nonsense. And my question is why the other one, the big government group, is involved. I would also like to make a request concerning the so-called early marketing premium, which is also called the Herod premium in the media. In France, Portugal and the United Kingdom there are premiums for the "use" – under quotation marks – of newborn calves under 20 days. These animals often still have the umbilical cord, they suffer horribly, and they serve no other purpose than to be destroyed. The consequences of a missing agricultural policy, the consequences of industrialized agriculture, the consequences of cattle madness! The fact that this animal disease is still being continued with tax money, I do not think it justified, and unfortunately the Minister of Agriculture has confirmed to us in a question that it cannot be ruled out that Austrian calves can also be sold to French, Portuguese or English slaughterhouses so that the premium can be collected there. We know from animal welfare organizations that there are some wholesalers who have been specializing only in the disposal of these premiums. This is about calves, who are only conceived and born so that they can be collected. Otherwise they will be thrown away – after someone has cast off. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Any veterinarian, any veterinarian, will confirm to you that these animals could not be transported for animal protection reasons. If this is done, only millions of heavy subsidies will be supported. Due to the free movement of goods, there are no statistics on this, but, as has been said, the Austrian Minister of Agriculture does not exclude the production of Austrian calves only so that they are thrown away – equipped with taxpayers' money. Federal Minister! I think that, beyond the passion for animal welfare, this is really an area where it stops with a certain human feeling somewhere and where you really have to say: This nonsense has such a method, and there is no reasonable reason to speak for it! I would therefore ask you to address this issue, even if this request should be rejected in this debate, because it is an important issue. In this case, I think you would have only sympathy in the population, in the media for a saving measure that would really benefit everyone: the animals, the consumers and the Austrian small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16083	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Kurzbauer has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16108	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For years now, there have been efforts to steer animal transports by means of appropriate regulations in suitable practical paths. In the end, these resulted in the animal transport law street already decided on, the animal transport law air to be changed today and the animal transport law railway to be decided upon. In the animal transport law air, only a formal change is made, and this novel is intended to ensure effective control of animal transport by air. To the Tiertransportgesetz-Eisenbahn: With the Council Directive on the protection of animals in the transport of railways, the EU has adopted rules requiring transposition at national level and this draft is now intended to achieve legal anchorage. This Federal Act contains provisions on the admissibility of animal transport, on the implementation of such transports, on the equipment of the means of transport, on loading and unloading facilities, on feeding and drinking times and on the care of animals during transport, in order to mention only a few points. Before transporting the animals, transport documents shall in future be issued by the sender. These papers are intended to provide the transporter with information about the animals, about the person of the sender, but also the consignee and the authorized person, as well as about the transit and destination station. This information is necessary in order to ensure the safest possible transport of animals on the railway by the transporter, because without such transport documents, the transporter must not enter into a contract of freight, but must not enter into an existing contract of freight. It is also ensured that the sender does not choose the most cost-effective transport route, but has to choose the fastest transport route in the interests of animal welfare. In order to protect the slaughter animals, the duration of transport, which follows the model of the Animal Transport Act, is limited by six hours. Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of the discussion on animal transport which has been taking place for years, a number of proposals for improvement have been made repeatedly by the Conference of Presidents in Brussels. I may mention a few: Meat exports should be preferred instead of live animals exports. Export refunds shall be subject to compliance with the Animal Transport Directive and all other animal welfare provisions. The refund is to be paid only for those animals that arrive at the destination. In European slaughterhouses too, the methods of slaughter corresponding to Islam should be allowed to meet the buyer's requirements on the one hand and to reduce or avoid live animal transport on the other. This also increases the value added of the respective State. It should also be noted that Ireland, the largest carcasses exporter, has reduced the number of live slaughtered bovine animals from approximately 480 000 in 1995 to around 90 000 in 1997. This means a decrease in the number of live bovine animals transported by around 390 000 in Ireland alone within the last two years. A similar trend, ladies and gentlemen, is to be noted throughout the EU. I therefore gather: The aim is to reduce the export rate for live drivers and to force and increase meat exports. In the breeding sector, measures are to be taken to make rail exports more attractive. Here is a comparison between rail and truck transport, for example transport to Italy: Starting point Zwettl, target Udine. For the transport on the rail you need more than double the time than for the transport on the road. It is also necessary to distinguish: The transport on the rail is more environmentally friendly transport, but the more animal-friendly transport is currently taking place on the road. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We should therefore not make a flat-rate condemnation of animal transport, but rather look at the matter soberly and objectively. More than 1 000 livestock transported annually from Austria to remote countries are the best proof of this. Our farmers generate income from the sale of animals and thus secure the livelihood of their families. And the farmers expect solidarity – the solidarity of our society. My group will be happy to give its approval to the amendment of the animal transport law on air and the animal transport law railway.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16167	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Chief. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16188	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, the Liberal Group will agree with the animal transport law air and, on the other, with the amendments to the animal transport law railway, but not with the negative report on the request of Mr Madeleine Petrovic – in order to explain our voting behaviour immediately in advance. As a Member of the Liberal Group, I would like to make a few things happen from the point of view of a veterinarian. We liberals have already pointed out years ago that the simple law on the transport of animals on the road will be insufficient and that we will be accused of dealing with only transport separately and separately in international transport and not of making a comprehensive animal transport law in the form of rail, road, air and water. Mr Kurzbauer! You forgive me for adding a lot to the figures you have mentioned. Of course, you have not missed the fact that Ireland has had massive export bans over the last four years due to the illegal transport of English bovine animals and is therefore due not so much to the transformation but to the BSE crisis and the export ban. I would therefore believe that if we want to comply with the call to look at this purely objectively without emotions, we should also take account of the figures, not of beautiful successes, but also of the actual environment from which the figures result, in the considerations. In addition, I believe that your example of transport on the railways and on the road is in so far as the equipment of the vehicles for the respective animal protection inspector is an important instrument in order to assess the extent to which transport has actually been adequately carried out among the camels of animal welfare. This may be an extreme animal torture at five hours in an unfit, overcrowded transporter in which the animals are packed, but it may, despite the six-hour directive, be a highly modern vehicle equipped with self-drinking, excruciating and all climatic facilities, i.e. with spatial conditions as they wish for each animal protectionist, still provide an equivalent transport, even if one considers that the loading and unloading times with the resulting stress are with a critical point and with a criterion of assessment. Our two country politicians, Thaller in Salzburg and Grasser in Carinthia, have tried to achieve semi-thinkable conditions on the Tauern line. Mr. Federal Minister! The recent discussions on television have also shown that the instrument available to our efforts to protect animals is still too sluggish in many respects. The administrative court knowledge mentioned at the outset and also quoted in the report has not helped to make the work of the animal protection and animal protection inspectors in Austria more tolerable. I would like to correct Mr Parnigoni's statement in so far as what is stated in the report is true, namely that there has not been any shortcomings in connection with the railway. The former Federal Minister Hums will give me the right. It's known to us: Whenever strikes were in Italy and on the border, for example in Pontebba or Tarvis, or on the other border where animal transports are carried, such as in French festivals or Padua, which have stood transports, there have been unacceptable conditions. The Austrian livestock producers can also sing a song of how long they had to complain, until the breeding cattle which had been poorly cared for during the transport, which had to be slaughtered in the slaughterhouses as a slaughter in Italy, were brought to appropriate replacements by the Italian state railways and the other persons responsible for these abuses. I do not think that reports are beautiful. We know the actual conditions for animal transport in practice also from the Austrian daily newspapers. However, I admit that the conditions in the transport of animals on the railway are 100 per cent better than those on the road. In particular, animal transport on the road from Poland, the former Warsaw Pact States and from Russia through Europe to the Mediterranean ports often has disastrous conditions. Especially in the winter months, poultry transports on these routes are actually to be viewed by every animal protector only with shudders. I would like to point out to you, Minister of State, that in your international efforts there are also port facilities in Europe at the end of the journey. The European Union's ships and cargo facilities still ridiculed any criticism. We all know the pictures of Genoa, the pictures of Greece or the pictures of Exjugoslavia, where the largest loading stations are on which it can be seen that the animals are partially at low water level, in order to allow for rapid loading, simply lifted up with cranes, into the bodies of the ships, over each other, so that they are injured, even their members broken. These really wounded animals are then taken to Libya or Beirut, where they are slaughtered in accordance with the religious regulations of the respective country. I do not believe that anyone who is half-humanistic and has a sense of nature and animals can do well for the European Union to provide means for transport facilities within the European Union and for international transit routes, while at the same time making no resources available for these port facilities in order to eliminate this abuse on European soil and finally adapt the loading stations to a contemporary, ethical requirement. Federal Minister! In aviation too, very many things are regulated for the protection of animals. I would, however, like to draw your attention - just like two years ago in a similar debate - to the many ornamental fish transports in aviation, which come from breeding establishments and which are therefore not subject to the international agreement on species protection. In addition, they are often illegally removed from the Amazon or its tributaries and are then introduced as breeding fish with turked papers. It is not rare that in Switzerland and other airports in Europe more than 50 per cent of the fish arrive at an end in such transports and the rest of them are sold with corresponding supplements to aquariums. These are all transactions that run at the expense of the tormented creature, and in my view this is by no means to be supported. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, not to let your efforts at European level be paralysed so that they can actually remedy these abuses. What we have in Austria, and what we decide today, is a small way in the right direction. A comprehensive satisfaction, Minister of State, cannot. The European Union, and especially the position of the southern countries in the European Union in this case, will set us up many heavy stones that we will have to deal with in order to reach ethically acceptable ways of dealing with slaughter animals, slaughter cattle and animal transport. That's why, Minister, I'm looking for you and your colleagues in government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16252	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16273	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The three materials that are being negotiated today under one – including the animal transport law air – are materials to which the liberals will agree. For the first time, I will make an amendment to the amendment which provides for the withdrawal of paragraph 2 of the Government's proposal. The reason for this is that in the original government template already introduced in the previous year, which should have been decided before the turn of the year, as the date of entry into force of the Law of the 1. ==References====External links== There has now been an amendment tabled by Mr Parnigoni, together with Mr Kijkacka, on the date of the entry into force of the law of 1 January 1988. ==References====External links== On the grounds that the new provisions have been replaced in January 1998, it is intended to avoid retroactive entry into force. It is true, of course, that we are already too late. That is why this provision is now being put into effect retroactively, because the federal law paper will only come out towards the end of January. Therefore, the amendment request to drop the entry into force and thus to make this law really enter into force only with the day following the announcement in the Federal Law. You know that, on a liberal basis, we are always very skeptical when it comes to retroactive laws. In this case, it is absolutely not necessary. I believe that one should not change a fundamental principle, namely that laws are not retroactively put into effect, because of a nullity. In fact, there is really no need for retroactive entry into force in this case. With regard to Mrs Petrovic's second request, Mrs 508/A (E), I would like to say two things: I think it is increasingly unpleasant that there is talk of Herod's premium in connection with cattle. For, ladies and gentlemen, if this historical reference is only an inventive one, because the event did not actually happen in this way, I believe that the reconciling of slaughter premiums for cattle with the The term Herod Prize is something we should not allow here in this House. Nevertheless, Mrs Petrovic, the Liberals will not hold your request until the 21st century. The day is supposed to be transported calves for good use. We will therefore also give our approval to this request. The third report, relating to the Tiertransportsgesetz-Eisenbahn, has already been carried out in great detail by the chairman of the Transport Committee. There has been a very lively debate on this in the Committee on Transport. In particular, given the fact that protection provisions have already existed, these protection provisions are now being implemented in the implementation of a directive of the European Union, which is why there will be an agreement from the Liberals to do so, it is not necessary to go further in terms of content. I would therefore like to repeat that the Liberals will also give their approval to this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16315	The amendment which has just been read is properly submitted and supported accordingly, and is therefore under negotiation. The one by the honourable Member Mag. The application submitted by Barmüller is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16358	The next speaker was Mrs Perfuss. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16379	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the House, the issue of animal welfare has taken up a relatively broad framework, which I am very pleased with, because this is a sign that the House is also responding to the concerns of animal welfare. Mr Parnigoni, and also Members of other political groups, have, as I rightly believe, pointed out the maladministration of live animals transport, have highlighted the subsidies for the transport of live animals negatively and, in the wider sense, have called for the abolition of them. I fully agree with this because I believe that, if subsidies are abolished and no profit can be made, there will be a further relinquishing of long-distance transport. The development of animal transport in recent years has made a large part of the population sensitive to animal welfare. Some films on animal transport were shown on television, where horrendous images were shown. I constantly marvel at how much this topic goes under the skin and how many people are interested in animal welfare. It is to be thanked to the Minister One and also to his officials that the tradition of the Austrian Social Democratic Transport Ministers, in this area, to act by means of laws in the sense of modern animal welfare. A few years ago, under the Minister of Transport Climate, the Austrian Animal Transport Act, a positive basis was created, with which animal protectionists were satisfied and which so many European states envy us or with which we can serve as a model. The present animal transport law-railway is first and foremost characterised by the determination of the admissibility of animal transport and second, the execution and maximum duration of such animal transports. I am particularly concerned, as an animal protection spokesman, that the care of the animals during transport and the equipment of the means of transport are also regulated. In order to ensure that these regulations are truly complied with in the sense of modern animal welfare, monitoring compliance with these rules was also required, which is, of course, a very important factor. Over the years, due to the special commitment of various animal welfare organisations and also due to the terrifying film reports of a Mr Karremann, whom I have already mentioned, has made a broad public for animal welfare. Private initiatives such as the popular desire for animal welfare at national level prove that, as we know, many signatures have been collected. The recent study, which states that a large part of the Austrian population is dissatisfied with the work of the Members here in the House, has been countered by this law, which takes account of a serious public concern. I hope – I am optimistic – that we will succeed in our concern to create a uniform animal welfare law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16427	Mr Seidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16449	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the debate a few comments on the animal transport law railway. The scenarios of the past – they were shown by previous speakers, and we all remember them – were often shocking. It has become necessary to launch the implementation of EU Directive 91/628/EEC and to transpose it into Austrian law. The existing rules on the protection of animals during rail transport did not appear to be sufficient. The aim of this draft law is to regulate the transport of animals on the road and in the air, as well as the transport of animals on the railways. The law itself adheres to the transport protection provisions that exist within the framework of the International Railway Association (UIC). Since railway animal transport is mainly carried out internationally, it cannot be different either. We know that there has also been intense discussions in other countries about these transports, the problems are the same everywhere. It is about showing us who transports on the road, who transports on the rails and under what conditions that happens in the central area of Europe and in the countries adjacent to us in the East. There has recently been no known serious abuses in the transport of animals on the railway. There has also been a general decline in animal transport. Nevertheless, we are a new challenge for the ÖBB to deal with the implementation of the relevant EU Directive. On the content of the law itself is, as I think, nothing more to say, since my previous speakers have already said all that has been said. I believe that we must confess to what we started years ago at the Animal Transport Law Street, namely not to view the animal as a commodity, but as something it deserves to be treated in such a way that it can eventually live in a form corresponding to animal welfare and then die. The animal intended for human consumption and enjoyment is to be treated in such a way that it also appears worthy of man. In transport times, it is important to regulate that only those animals that meet the necessary physical requirements, that is, those that are not ill or injured, are transported. This requirement should not be discussed, but should only be underlined. Another important thing, as I believe, is that not the most cost-effective way of transport can be chosen, but the shortest. There is no doubt that the limit of six hours for slaughtering animals exceeds that proposed in the EU. However, we insist that in some areas we have more stringent rules than the EU in general. However, this can also be a competitive advantage, as the EU will ultimately also raise the limits. Finally, let me say something about Mr Petrovic's proposal not to allow animal transport of calves under 21 days. I think that their proposal is quite good and superior, but we do not know how it should be dealt with today. However, I believe that we can make the proposal that, within the framework of a novel in which we can arrange transport by rail, road transport, air transport and, if necessary, water transport here together, then take up their considerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16497	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 961 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Barmüller and comrades submitted an amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of point 2. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall therefore vote on paragraph 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – The consent shall be unanimous. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This approval is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 961 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This approval is also unanimous. Accepted. (E 102.) We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its 962 report of the supplements. If you would like to agree, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the case in most cases. Accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Madeleine Petrovic and others on a ban on the transport of calves up to the age of 21 days. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 946 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is done unanimously. Accepted. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 652/A by Mr Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch, DDr. Erwin Niederweiserund comrades concerning a federal law amending the University Study Law (1053 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Scientific and Research Committee on the draft federal law amending the Studienförderungsgesetz (1054 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 653/A by Mr MMag. Dr. Willi Braunederund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Studies in Universities (1055 of Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment No 525/A (E) by Mr MMag. Dr. Willi Braunederand Comrades concerning the introduction of a vice-decant to large faculties (1056 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 433/A (E) by Dr Martina Gredlerand Comrades on the request to the Federal Minister for Science and Transport for the evaluation of the timeliness of the University Approval Regulation (1057 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (742 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on equivalences in higher education and installations (1024 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 303/A (E) by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades on increasing the number of courses at universities (1025 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 436/A (E) by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund comrades on research and documentation of the importance of the Hemp culture plant (1026 of the supplements) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment No 524/A (E) by Dr Michael Krügerund Comrades on the tax exemption of scholarships and prices from science and research (1027 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on Amendment 547/A (E) by Mr Martina Gredler and others on the application of "new" communications technologies in the administrative handling of study aid (1028 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on amendment 606/A by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the University Study Act (1029 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16787	We now come to points 10 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Grollitsch was the first speaker to speak. A voluntary time limit of 6 minutes is indicated. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16815	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have some not very exciting innovations and requests from the scientific community, which were discussed in two committees. I refer first to Agenda item 10, on a novel to the quite young university study law, according to request 652/A. This amendment, as stated in the Committee's report, is intended to ensure the payment of the ÖH contribution. For not quite a specialist, I would like to note that this is a repair of § 32 UniStG. It was so far possible for students not to report their studies for two semesters and still take exams. Towards the end of their studies, the students have increasingly used this possibility and have refrained from paying the student's contribution. However, the payment section of the ÖH contribution is currently the only reliable document to cover students statistically. However, it has become apparent that this is an inappropriate and inadequate method, which is now to be repaired with this novelle. In this context, the following question arises for us, Mr Federal Minister: Is it really wise and skillful to make the Austrian high school as a representative of the students' interests so much the wall and to secure the revenue, if one at the same time knows what image loss the Austrian student education has suffered in recent years? – Hardly one out of four students is still trying to choose ÖH! And if one reads a recent opinion poll about the students and their relationship to the high school officials, one learns that the ÖH-functionary is simply regarded by the students as a cadre student for a later party-political activity. The removal of its actual function, namely the student representation, continues. In recent times, we have experienced the disputes concerning the ÖH Presidency. If you look at the presence of the high school officials in the universities' bodies on the ground, you know that it is in this area in a bad way. The question is, therefore, whether one should just now strengthen the Austrian high schooling on its revenue. I know that this amendment is limited to two years, and there are very reasonable proposals in the Committee's report for a future computer-supported statistical system. However, this report also provides for a review of the payment of a member's contribution to higher education. A question to the Examining Division of my university has been raised by the fact that at present five officials in about 50 per cent of their service are engaged in the verification of the payment of the ÖH contribution. Throughout Austria this will be about 300 officials employed in the study and examination departments, as I suppose. In view of this number, a comparison has occurred to me some time ago with a number from my hobby area, namely fishing. The State Fisheries Association in Styria has raised to me the question of what happens to the 300 S government contribution that every steirer has to make, who wants to keep a fishing in any Styrian waters. There are at least about 20,000 fishermen in the Styria, so the revenue is about 6 million schilling. The information I got from Landesrat Ressel on my question, what happens to this money, is remarkable: The 300 s of revenue is necessary to take in the 300 s, so to cover the costs of collection! That is to say, the staffing effort for the officials employed in each of the district's captains corresponds in total to that exact amount. Based on our example, Minister of State: The 300 officials who spend 50 percent of their working time controlling ÖH's contributions will cost about 150 million schillings, and around 80 million schillings a year will be the proceeds from ÖH's contributions. The ratio thus corresponds roughly to the above comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's a joke! That's not true!]] Dement that if you can! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! I already know that there is a side effect in statistical collection. But to your laugh: They should follow the development of the number of officials at universities in relation to the number of students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Maybe you did that and know the development. At my university, for example, over the last 20 years, the number of people in central administration has increased from 44 to 88, so it has doubled. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I don't think so!]] At your university it will not be much different – and this will be in the century of computer support, in times when you can grasp all of this by pressing a button! Mr Lukesch! What you have formulated in your application is nothing but a kind of assistance to the Austrian high school by ensuring and controlling that it receives its revenue. We reject this because we believe that the high school should find it back where it once was. Do you not understand that acceptance of hearing is completely lacking? Does that not tell you if only 26 percent go to an ÖH election? Do not say that if you publish the results of this survey – by the ÖH itself! – learn when you read how their officials stand? . I ask you if you really want to continue to provide protective aid. I dare to doubt it and believe that the high school should create its own facility in order to control the receipt of its own contributions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals will therefore reject this request and recommend that high school students impose on them a future-oriented, self-regulatory organisational unit and not maintain the current form of dizziness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16886	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16907	Federal Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should just like to recover from Mr Grollitsch's number rotations in order to be able to start my remarks here. However, since it is also about Latin today, I would like to come to medias res and go to the UniStG. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!]] The aim of the University Study Act was on the one hand to bring the study plans to the current state of science and on the other hand to link them to the instrument of autonomous design of the study plans. In addition, the reduction of actual study periods was also an objective to be achieved – at least for normal students or for full-time students – and this includes a sufficient number of examination dates. I am referring to the request made by the liberals. I think it is remarkable that, if there are problems in implementing a legal measure that has been decided here, you will be able to react so that you say that we must change the law instead of helping to break through the law and the interests of the students. The persons concerned have been forced to pay homage. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I have specifically chosen the opinions on this question, such as the opinion of the high school, and I have found that the opinion on the draft Staff Regulations contained this request for a third examination date. This was the subject of these negotiations from the beginning, and we will not cancel this third examination date. We will reject your request. We see no reason to get off such a step. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] The liberals also claimed other things, such as Mr Krüger at the time in the discussion of the UniStG. He said it was unconstitutional to give the universities autonomy. President Krüger noticed this in a broadcast. In principle, these procedures show how they are addressed, for example, in the question of the third date of examination, and this call for higher education actually very strongly demonstrates the need for this Austrian high schooling as a legal representation of interests. And that is the next point, the central point of the Lukesch/Netherlands application. It is ultimately about the functioning of the Austrian high school. Mr Grollisch! You are quite right if you say that we have an interest in this area. But it would be most unfair to set up on one hand a legal representation of interest such as high school, but on the other hand not to guarantee that it also has the necessary resources. With the present amendment of the UniStG, this guarantee is now to be made, and the guarantee of funding through the course exams, if the continuation of the studies is reported, of course also includes the deposit of the ÖH contribution. I can also give you other examples. You might be able to do this and put it as a proposal where you asked. In most universities, this works in such a way that the inscriptions are made by means of a deposit note, and the monetary institutions then transmit the data tapes, the data carriers to the university administration or directly overplay the data. That doesn't make any special effort. The fact that 300 people in Austria are busy controlling the numbering and the ÖH contribution is a nonsensory! Mr Grollitsch, believe me, that is not true from the front and from the back. The monitoring of such sums is without problems with today's technology. If this should perhaps not be the case there or there, I ask you to change that so that it will work there too. In this connection, I would like to make a few fundamental points. We have defined the function of universities and universities primarily with the task of teaching and the mission to research. We note increasingly that another, third, point in the tasks of universities and universities is that of continuing vocational training in connection with a transfer of technology. It is interesting that the most recent OECD study on education policy analysis 97 also points to this context. The aim is to satisfy individual educational needs specifically for professionals, in line with their situation, and to develop offers such as part-time courses, distance learning courses and modular education courses. We have already written this in the UniStG. In § 7 para. 2 we have noted that in the design of the study courses, consideration should be given to the particular situation of working students. – There is no "can" or "soll" written down, but a mandatory provision. And that will be something else that we have to pay attention to, namely that this will actually take place at the universities in the concrete design of the study plans and the study courses. We will place very, very great importance on this because it is an important target group. In this context, I should like to announce that, as I believe, we will also take timely measures in line with our coalition partner in the field of student support for the specific age group of the 30 to 35 years who would be affected by changes, so that these students can continue to receive funding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to refer to Mr Petrovic's request to explore the hemp plant. My group's colleagues will do this even more in detail. The subject may be important and also very interesting – I do not want to evaluate it here at all. But the approach is wrong! Ladies and gentlemen! If you imagine that we should discuss here in the plenary session of the National Council in the future all the wishes that we Members may have regarding what should be researched, and then we say yes and no once, so we would in principle assess very detailed research areas and then say to the government: That is what you have to explore and not!, Mrs Petrovic and colleagues from the Greens, this is by no means our understanding of how research policy should take place! We have the framework to create, we have to ensure that there is sufficient resources, that is not a question. However, the qualified persons in each fund need to be able to decide which projects to support, which priorities are set. That is our view of responsibility and also of autonomy. Research is an area that we cannot start discussing here in the National Council. It would simply be a wrong approach to political responsibility to try to take responsibility in many small details. We set the framework conditions in the field of research. We will have to take some substantial steps in the next few months. But in detail, those who can do much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16963	Mrs Gredler has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e16984	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, because this year I will be speaking here in the House for the first time, I would like to wish all my colleagues a happy new year. Secondly, I should like to join on a large number of points in your speech, Mr Niederwieser. I assume that Mr Lukesch will react in a similar way in respect of many of the points you have listed. Nevertheless, I would like to clarify some positions on behalf of the Liberal Forum. First of all, I am referring to ensuring the payment of the higher education contribution. – In principle, I can follow the intention behind it, but two things are mixed, namely compulsory membership with financing problems. I regret that the financing problems of the ÖH should, as it were, be solved through compulsory membership. I'd rather imagine a compromise variant. But we need to debate this for a longer time and we must not make such a quick shot. That is why I also propose that we discuss in detail how useful it is for us to be a member of the university, or whether we should not consider making a similar arrangement to the Free University of St. Gallen, which aims to become a compulsory member, but then to have a right of objection, so that, if we want to, one can leave. – I think this is a very democratic process that could serve as a compromise variant. On the other hand, high schooling is, of course, a very important institution whose scope of action is not to be limited. In any event, I would like to see the financial problems dealt with differently than they should be in the context of the repair of this law. I would also like to mention Mr Brauneder's request concerning the third examination date in the middle of the semester, in which it is said that this examination date will cut down the course firm. – I studied medicine, and we had the opportunity to take exams almost every month. But I did not have the impression that the medical study is a broken study! Rather, the professors of this faculty are also willing to deal with the students together with the large number of test subjects. There are, of course, an equally large number of examiners also at the legal faculty and at other faculties. However, I would have problems if threats were expressed by professors that they would examine students at the third time of examination because they rejected this appointment. Then it would be time for us to become active! In this respect, the Minister also heard allegations, and he himself was very sorry about such individual cases, which have become known. I hope that the understanding of the professors now takes a fairly slow place, that the third examination date can be understood in the sense of a faster course of study and not in the sense of a failure of the teaching firm! I would now like to give you my request for new communication technologies in the management of the study aid: I allowed myself to introduce this in June in the context of the UniStG debate. It was interesting that the officials of the Ministry immediately signaled willingness to take up this idea and design such forms so that students' presence on applications for study aid would be reduced to a minimum. If there is something to clarify with the officials and especially on the occasion of the signature performance, the student must, of course, appear personally – and we have never questioned that – but not in purely administrative activities. Mr Lukesch! I think you said at the time that personal contact with officials should persist in purely administrative activities. – It is not prohibited by this request that only those persons who – for whatever reason – have no time to appear in person should be provided with at least a few administrative reliefs. I take from an OTS report today that the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport will obviously have already created and made available such forms in two weeks anyway. That is to say, the officials responded very quickly. I thank the officials for this! I really think it's really great that you didn't block this, just because it's coming from the opposition, right now, as it is here in the house of Usus, but that you said: This is a good consideration, so we are not waiting for Parliament to respond, but we are going to do so. – The nice thing about it is: Even if you reject the application, it will be implemented. I think it is unfortunate that such openness has not ruled here in the house. – Again: I thank the officials for this flexibility! On the request of Brauneder concerning the introduction of a Vice-President: I believe that Mr Brauneder is right if he believes that in large faculties a vice-dean may have an important role to play. I believe that the great faculties should be given real flexibility. I am saying this because, in fact, many agendas have been transferred from the Ministry to the universities, because the administration and management of the entire management at the universities has changed a lot and many more tasks have to be done. I therefore welcome Mr Brauneder's request, which aims to enable what is possible at the Faculty of Medicine to be done at other faculties. I believe that if more tasks are assigned on the one hand and therefore, on the other hand, as I believe, Mr Minister, officials can be saved, of course, I agree. I come to the request for a review of the timeliness of the university allowance regulation, which I have introduced and which has really developed its own dynamics. I only asked in this request that, on the occasion of the preparation of the study plans, the study commissions be asked which applicants they wish for a study, which qualifications a future student or a future student should have, which picture is taken of. – I do not think that is an additional task. But you, Mr Minister, said that this would overburden the study committees with statistical material. I would like to say to you: If I were in a study commission, I would, in order to be able to draw up a study plan at all, carry out an analysis of what intellectual potential is available at the outset and what is ultimately to be achieved. I think that within this sheer one can then define which learning content is to be communicated to the student or the student. But that must be analysed. We need to know what potential of know-how is available at the beginning, so to speak. That's what I asked! I simply asked that the study committee be asked to do so. That is the only thing contained in this request. It's just about questioning. I would like to remind you that the School Organisation Act provides that the requirements of the various fields of study must be determined in agreement with the Federal Minister for Science and Transport by the Federal Minister for Education and Cultural Affairs, as he said at the time. This means that the requirements of the various fields of study can only be identified by surveying the universities. They can't be found elsewhere! How should the Minister of Education come to the appropriate information if she does not instruct the study committees who now have the responsibility to do so? – That’s completely absurd! In addition: We did not ask for the abolition and the like at all! On the contrary! But you really have to consider whether some things are needed in the form as they are now regulated. As an example, I call the medical study: I must tell you that I would have benefited much more from a terminology teaching unit in which I would have been taught Greek and Latin terms. Instead, I have learned to translate Cicero and Caesar, which has brought me very little for my survival in medical studies. I would like to tell you that I am certainly among those people in the house who have had to learn or want many languages in their lives. I have acquired knowledge in many languages, and I assume that I have not received my sensitivity to languages because I have learned Latin, but because I have been confronted with many foreign languages from childhood. I don't even care about the foreign languages, it's only to a certain extent easy for me to learn them, I have to admit. Expressing myself in another language has not been considered particularly abstrus since my fourth year of life. That is why I cannot follow your logical conclusion if you say that someone who has not learned Latin can have no sense of language. I bet with you that the ears will slam you if you find out what a sense of language I have, not only in languages that have Latin as a basis, but also in languages that have nothing to do with Latin at all! So in my life, for example, I have learned a little Chinese. However, I have unfortunately had to give up, because, besides my work on medicine, it has broken my capacity. I would like to make a few more points of view. – Education scientist Karl Heinz Gruber welcomed the end of Latin in 1996 as a subject of fear, and I give him the right to do so. Obviously – you have expressed it very well anyway – the way it is taught is wrong. We should therefore consider how we can better teach it. I'll give you all the right. The Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna 1996 Peter Piller says: "A Latin knowledge is not necessary for the Jus study, but the linguistic requirements are better for the lawyer if he has learned Latin because it also makes very valuable contributions to the consciousness of the German language." In this regard, I do not understand Mr Petrovic, who says that for the development of the sense of language of jurists Latin is absolutely necessary, precisely a condition for sine qua non. For if that were so, then in fact most lawyers around the world would have to be absolute charlatans in their domain, which cannot express themselves specifically at all. Therefore, they could not negotiate and develop any sensitivity. I do not understand this access, which, in a press release by Mr Lukesch today, has been put on record by which he has acted vehemently against me. I'm used to that! But if you say that my proposal is aimed at abolishing Latin as a prerequisite for many fields of study, such as Jus or medicine, then I must tell you: No word is written in this template! Read to me the passage that says "off"! Lukesch goes on to say: "Austrian academics should deliberately distinguish themselves from other countries, especially the USA, through knowledge of European historical roots, European philosophy, but also many European languages, all of which are transported with Latin." – If you are trying to make a distinction between the students in the United States at university level, you say: We are much better!, then I must say: From this point of view, I do not understand the US why they do not immediately introduce Latin! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Because in the United States, the students are required. Of course, the students are expected to do their best, on the other hand, to produce only the best in order to benefit from it afterwards. The universities will be understood there in a very market-oriented way! In this context, I have a request: Don't separate us from the scientific world of the USA! We need English, English and once again English! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: 60 percent of the English vocabulary comes from Latin!]] As a physician, we need to read English articles so that we are carefully trained, because we do not find out with the German-speaking publications. I think that's important! You should motivate the young people to learn more English! That would actually be an entrance requirement!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17032	The next speech is by Mr Dr. Lukesch. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17050	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Gredler! You give me the opportunity to respond to your request immediately, and then I may also address the remaining ten requests later. . One could conclude from the fullness of the requests on this item on the agenda that a particular legistic zeal in the university field has broken out. But that's not the case. My previous speakers have already pointed out that there are two requests from colleagues from Niederweiser and I and a government template for the recognition of study titles and studies in Hungary. The rest are opposition applications. But now to you, Mrs Gredler. There is in science – this theory comes from, I am quite sure, by Karl Popper – a link of reasoning, a link of origin and a link of use of arguments. And I'm wondering now: Why are you using your application right now, since we are reforming the university study law and because we trust the study commissions to introduce new modern curriculums? Isn't that about your personal aversion to classical old philology? – I mean: This is really what you are talking about, even if you are talking about having the study committees evaluated. By the way, "Evaluating" is also a Latin vocabulary that you could not actually understand if you had not learned a bit of Latin at some point. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: There is also the word in English and French!]] In what context can you see your request? Knowledge of Latin is a special feature of the vast majority of our Austrian academics. "Universitas" also means something like "general education", and this includes the knowledge of the old languages, thus old history, European history, with which our roots and philosophy are transported, but also the language structure knowledge up to the previous knowledge of the Romance languages, including the English language. That is why, Mrs Gredler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: You have required an evaluation of previous knowledge by the study committees. . I do not know whether you are actually aware of all the consequences of this proposal. I suppose you know the American university system, because you just quoted it. There the universities choose their students themselves. There is no general university maturity that is confirmed by a matura, but there is the system of applications there. One registers, and then the requirements of the adept of science are examined to see if it actually meets the requirements of this university. I know that there are also voices here in our country that are in favour of the universities being allowed to choose their listeners themselves. I don't belong to that! I would like to see the target orientation of the Matura to guarantee general university maturity and thus to give every maturant the opportunity to attend the university. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you have not thought so carefully about the consequences of this request! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: That's a premise!]] But be it! I would also like to say to Mr Grollitsch that he has overpowered the budgetary impact of the study departments' collection of the ÖH contributions to 150 million schillings annually, claiming that then the cost of the ÖH for the collection would be 10 percent higher than the result of this survey. Mr Grollisch! I know you as quite serious colleagues. Check out your university! It is not possible that Montanuniversität Leoben, one of our elite universities, does not yet have the data exchange with the banks that simply deliver the deposit documents to the study department via computer! I don't believe you! In reality, something completely different is behind it: The Freedom Party has always had a broken relationship with the Austrian high school and especially with the compulsory membership of the Austrian high school because it is a public law body and, therefore, these or its functionaries also have rights of participation and participation defined by law at the university. That was probably a thorn in your eye! Therefore, it is proposed to dig them off, and does not say what it is all about: to disarm our students in connection with and in cooperation with the other groups at the university. – Place the cards on the table! If you are talking about 150 million schilling collection costs for the ÖH contributions, you are acting with some imagination numbers you have from somewhere but are only supposed to cover up the actual intention of your group. There are still a number of further applications. I divided them into two categories: One category is too late, because either the Minister or the bureaucracy or Parliament have already responded, and the other I say absolutely: I disagree. I don't agree. Just over my body! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] The first category includes Mrs Petrovic's request to increase the number of courses. We have only recently changed higher education law with a corresponding teaching obligation. There is an increased number of courses for assistants and lecturers and a commitment to teach for the professors. Finally, a higher range of teaching needs to come out! It may be that the number of reclaimed teaching assignments for Extranii has been reduced – as we say in the technical language – but the teaching offer has certainly not been reduced! Mr Krüger's request on the tax exemption of scholarships and scientific prices is quite peculiar. It cites an article from the "Austrian tax newspaper" dealing with this question, and recalls that the Committee on Culture has succeeded in bringing a new line into the rules of governance existing in the cultural sector. They quote this article and then draw the summary that all this is not legally clear. I read the whole article, Mr Krüger! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You already read it, but you didn't understand it!]] I also understood him, as laborious as it is to understand this tax and financial German. The summary clearly shows: There is no income tax liability for scholarships, there is no VAT duty. It may come out of a grant grant, such as a dissertation grant, an additional usable performance, such as patent receipts or tantimes, if you have written a book, which would suddenly be a new category of income. However, you have painted something on the wall here, which is not there. You created a strawman you wanted to beat. In this article in the "Austrian tax newspaper" everything is clear, there is nothing to doubt at all! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I'll read it to you then!]] Mrs Gredler! Still on your request regarding automation: We want to go much further in relation to the collection of the ÖH contributions. Mr Niederweiser and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the amendment of the amendment to the Law on Study Promotion. It goes beyond that, by electronic data exchange not only the application for study but also the application of the entitlement to family allowance and health insurance under one – and I hope under one! – without taking great bureaucratic effort by the student. That's where we're on a good path. The application has been submitted and it has been implemented gradually. From this semester, for example, my faculty has all the courses and the goals on the Internet. One can see on the Internet what Lukesch reads in the next summer semester how many listeners he receives and what teaching goals he pursues with his "Work Market and Education Economics" event. – This works wonderfully and is also made voluntarily by the universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. Overall, we can say that we have made small clarifications about the university study law today, certainly also with the intention of financially securing our ÖH. However, very large tasks, Mr Federal Minister, are still waiting for us this year, which is likely to be the last year of our cooperation before the next elections. Of course, something can arise afterwards, such as the Kunsthochschule study law or the organizational law. Mr Niederweiser! Remote studies, for example, would be a matter that we should devote ourselves to, including a reorganisation of student transfers. Federal Minister! In 1998, the EU was declared a year of work. It will also be a year of work for our universities for you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17153	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17175	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to address my request for an amendment of the UniStG on ethnically discriminated groups in their home country. However, I would like to start by saying a few words about the 'Latin debate', inspired by the speeches made by my previous speakers. It is not easy for me to give Mr Lukesch the right time, but I have to do so on this issue. Mrs Gredler! Although your request then only concerns the call for dialogue – from which I am based and which you yourself have confirmed to be permanent with the officials of the department – your true intention is to a much greater extent based on the explanatory statement, because in this case you are very strongly criticised by the "administrative rationality" you so called. – I think: Even so bad is this Australian rationality not. Would they always be taken into account? For I think we have already threatened them in too many cases as far as the scope of the cultural offer and much in this context is concerned. In particular, on the question of the conditions of study, I very much advocate that people who have already been in the profession, or persons who have a matura without Latin, for example a technical matura, should consider the conditions as they now exist, because I also believe that it is not useful if these people have to put the big Latinum. But it is not only a question of language knowledge and a general educational asset, but it is a matter of controlling the small one-time in many subjects, especially in the field of legal history; it also has something to do with original sources. It is not only about a pure list of termini, which one learns like vocabulary, but also about the development of these terms. This has happened over many centuries, and I think it is helpful in practice to know about it. It has been very useful to me personally. I can assure you that, for example, when we met in large-scale economic negotiations on business settlements, to which lawyers from different legal spheres - for example from Anglo-American case law and from continental European areas - we did not know the respective legal situation in the other countries, we were incredibly quick at this small one-time, and we have always greatly appreciated that we have this stock in common. I have always regretted my colleagues, who, for example, have a technical or a different training, if, for example, they had to learn some laws such as patent law quickly in the context of legal training, because they are much more difficult in my view. It is a relief and not an intensification. That's my view of things. As has been said, I would, in particular, check the nature of the condition in the case of working students and go in the direction of basic legal history rather than later demand a Latin matura. I don't think that makes sense either. So much for it. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: We just want to ask you about this!]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: We have a good proposal!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] It is nice that we can have a controversy on this issue here. These are my experiences, and I have, as I said, worked quite long in this area. I can only share my experiences with some others. I do not think that this is a pointless aggravation; rather, it is a great relief. But please. [[Abg. May. Posch: Sounds very interesting!]] Very interesting, certainly, but as said: I actually wanted to make my contribution to the changes in the field of... [[Abg. May. Posch: Your plea is not entirely to be followed!]] I don't know. Would you perhaps like to vote against your group with Mr Gredler? . I would very much welcome this, for purely democratic reasons, if the members of the coalition would be more willing to vote against their own group. This would certainly be desirable in the sense of a recovery of the House. But only in intermediate calls, while I am convinced that you will then again vote with your own group, which has been in conformity with me in this sense, at least in committee, that does not do anything. So I wonder what's going on. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What kind of charm offensive is that? A charm offensive at half past nine?]] The Socialist Group has apparently shared Mr Lukasch's view, Mr Klubobmann Khol. I do not know whether she really shared it or whether it was just said in committee. At any rate, the voting behaviour was the same as it was done, and I have seen myself giving a little reason to reason why I once voted with the coalition parties. I will not get tired of making a start to the university study law, Mr Niederwieser. I am still of the opinion that we need action there. There is – unfortunately, as I have to say – a massive discrimination against people belonging to a particular population in some countries of the earth is defined ethnically or religiously. We know this, for example, from Kosovo. We know that students who belong to the Albanian majority group of the population in Kosovo cannot study at official colleges of the rest of Yugoslavia. There are underground universities of Albanians, which, in view of the conditions under which they work, reach an amazing level – which I always assure you – but these are not recognized in Restjugoslavia. Therefore, their diplomas and certificates are not recognised in accordance with the strict provisions of the University of St.G., which I believe to be in the core right and which should, above all, prevent students – from countries such as Germany where a numerus clausus exists – who do not meet the conditions for study in their country of origin, to a country that is in the same language, in this case to Austria, in order to avoid the numerus claususus here. Numerus-clausus provisions are not desirable – I reject them in themselves – but we cannot influence the legislation in Germany, and I think that we also cannot purchase such a derogation in large numbers. There is, however, a real need for action where it concerns people who are not recognised political refugees. The number of recognitions – you know as well as I do – has dropped steadily. Last year, there were not even 700 people who were recognized as refugees in Austria as politically persecuted. Nevertheless, discrimination and persecution are much more widespread than the closely defined refugee concept expressed in the refugee convention. I think that, in this respect, in general, at the federal level, we should develop an instrument which, in the individual case, when the conditions have been examined, allows the science community to approve whether this is the Kurds, Kosovo Albanians or anyone else pro futuro. I think that at the federal level, cooperation with the Federal Asyl authorities and with the NGOs in the field of refugees will be easier possible and that we can then say uniformly throughout Austria: This or that group of persons is subject to such general discrimination in terms of study in its home country. I also think it is a matter of the rule of law, of provisions which have actually been created for another purpose, not to apply here – if any document cannot be taught temporarily – then it is certainly reasonable to allow universities to deal with such problems in their own field – but I believe that the examination of an issue with regard to whether a population group in Asia, Africa or here in Europe should be pursued should actually be carried out in a uniform manner. There should be, as has been said, no general admission of a particular category, but the examination in individual cases of whether the university requirements are met. I think that this would also be a command of legal certainty in the interests of officials so that they could actually rely on a corresponding federal law. My knowledge is that the number of Kosovo Albanians currently studying in Austria is very low, and the number of people who make it economically and in terms of the necessary conditions to be introduced to this country will still be so small in the future that it is actually more about a moral contribution. It is a matter of moral support for discriminatory groups, it is a question of showing that we want to strengthen the back of those groups who have been persecuted in their home country in particular in the university area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, I would like to ask you once again to reconsider this request. I'm sure I'll bring him back. I have now come to the attention of appropriate cases of Kurds and Kurds. I think it would be really useful, in the sense of legal certainty, to repair this regulation by means of a small legislative change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17282	Mrs Ablinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17304	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak briefly to the so-called Latin debate, which is now a little violent, under quotation marks. I am really surprised by her argument, Mrs Petrovic. But, well, for surprises, I'm always open. I also do not think that this is a fractional opinion in itself. I know that there are different opinions in our group as well. Of course, I cannot say that about the ÖVP. I assume, for example, that there may be differences of opinion among the Greens. I do not therefore believe that this is an ideological-group opinion. I can't say anything about this from my experience – I didn't study Jus and I didn't study medicine. I have, however, spoken a lot with lawyers who, in relation to the international negotiations you have mentioned, have meant that it would have been more useful to be able to speak English very well. As for the time being spent for Latin, many lawyers I know have said: This is not the point; it is rather the point of being able to speak a foreign language very well. As far as Mr Gredler's request is concerned, I agree with this opinion as I say: These reviews are taking place now, and this debate should be held. I think that this should not be done on an ideological level. I take note and also believe that some people who study Jus say to themselves: I got a lot of help from Latin. That may be. Others, on the other hand, say: It would have brought me more if more time had been left for English. – So much to this one point. Secondly, I would like to refer to Mr Petrovic's request for research and documentation on the hemp plant. I have noticed some inconsistencies about this. In this application, they speak in a breath of research into the culture plant hemp with regard to paper and textile production and also in connection with medicine. The fact is that these are two different plants. As far as the hemp for paper and textiles is concerned, we and the Ministry have a number of research, research and activities. This area is about the usual hemp, about cannabis sativa, with a very low THC content. In the other case, the hemp, which is interesting for medicine – if one assumes that hemp would be therapeutically useful in medicine – is about the Indian hemp with a much higher THC content. That is why, in the request, there are two things that I think have nothing to do with each other in a breath. This distinction must be made when one speaks of it. From various discussions I know that there is reason to believe that the Indian hemp – with the high THC content – could be used therapeuticly in the field of AIDS treatment, asthma treatment and the treatment of the green star. It may be useful, but as your application is formulated – so to speak, as a call for the Minister to prepare a study – he does not make sense for medical statements. A large-scale study should be carried out in a hospital for this purpose. That is also the reason for the rejection of this request. For it seems to me that something else might be hidden behind it – as Mr Petrovic, colleague for Mr Gredler, pointed out at another request: You may want to signal that the Indian hemp also has meaningful therapeutic effects. I know that, and that might be a legitimate concern. In my opinion, however, the request is an inappropriate crutch because it is precisely Indian hemp that should not be confused with ordinary hemp. Because with a low THC content, you won't be able to continue in medicine. – So much for the reason that this request would not be useful even if it were to be used for medical research. That is the final point. Mr. Lukesch spoke of a "year of work" ahead of us. I am of this opinion, too. I am now referring to an article in the "Press" of tomorrow in which ÖH Chairman Wolfgang Gattringer comments on the sad professional prospects for academics and their social situation. He talks about their rising cost of living. On average, 6 700 s per month of income is available to students, and they have to spend an average of 3 000 s on their own for one room. This fact that living costs and housing costs are rising so much makes it increasingly necessary for students to go to work. I think I have already worked on some of the areas that are going to concern us in the future. We will have to deal with the promotion of studies and, in particular, with the situation of the professionals. That will certainly be working weeks. Gattringer tells us: "Announcings alone are too few." I think we all agree in this House that it will not stay there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17363	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17384	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, estimated in the hall! At the outset, I would like to take a brief look at the request of Professor Brauneder concerning two examination dates. We believe that this regulation would be typical of regulations in the field of university autonomy and faculty autonomy. I am a technician, and in my training time we had tests every 14 days or three weeks. I think that a general rule, as is now laid down in the law, will be very difficult to enforce. Instead, the faculty or the university should be able to decide autonomously how many exam dates will be held depending on the actual requirements during the studies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the idea of Mr Gredler to review the regulation on freedom of movement must be supported. However, this review should not be focused on Latin alone. For example, in the field of technicians – for which I consider myself responsible – it could possibly change the requirements for basic training in performing geometry by comprehensive application of CAD programs. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: That's inside!]] I know. Only it should not focus on a Latin debate, but I also consider it important. However, there should be close cooperation between universities and higher education and vocational education schools. The universities should play a decisive role in determining the requirements for future needs, because practical orientation is important; universities should tell what requirements the students should meet. Because all of us know today's suit of the universities on the level of the graduates or the incoming students. I would like to point out that the university allowance regulation comes from a time when science and universities were still grouped together in a ministry, not under one, but in a ministry. This idea would also like to be met by German Chancellor Klima. In my opinion, this has been prevented in our view by a very sensible degree of competence, because this ministry – as I would like to put it now – would have happened to the black wing in the government. Mrs Gredler also called for the use of modern means of communication in the university administration. I think it is a matter of course that telecommunications technology is used in the universities in a comprehensive way in order to prevent excessive and taxing bureaucracy. For the students are to study, and the professors are to teach, research and not to get hopelessly involved in a paperwork that employs them for several hours and days. But how the universities use these possibilities, how they network, which information systems they will choose, is in my view again a question of autonomy. The universities themselves should decide on this. This brings me back to the point of autonomy. What is it really like today with the autonomy that has been possible and established since the UOG 1993 and its implementation? – As we know and hear over and over again, this is only very sluggish. There is still no mention of budgetary and personal autonomy, as we hear from appeal negotiations. It surprises me, Minister, how this debate is going today when I look at media reports of the last few days: Ministry without Minister; They're almost abandoning their officials. The "Standschrechte" from Tyrol ends the "Schonzeit" against you, Mr. Minister. Or: "Knowledged criticism of One: ‘Lestlessness’’. – It seems to me that you are currently more concerned with a lively programme debate on your party program. In addition, a "hot high school autumn" was announced by colleagues Lukesch last summer. It really surprises me how this debate is being held, and I am also surprised by this terrible word, "End of time", used by Klubobmann Khol. – Imagine free politicians saying something like that would be terrible. But you don't have to worry. Because within the coalition – or, as we say, the black and red one party – only space cartridges are shot, and you easily survive, Minister. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17422	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17443	Mr President. High house! I think it might be a good time to say one more word right now. Deputies! I thank you for the refreshing calls, at least for the expression of hope that the debate may become even more lively. Only: Some of what you have now quoted is one of the glamours of everyday politics, but not really one of the fundamental issues that it is about. I think that today there have been very substantial questions here, and to a few of them I would like to lose another word or other. I think it is a bit strange to have a discussion here in the House on whether it is appropriate for students to exercise an appropriate form of their representation of interests and perhaps also to exercise democratic instruments in the application of democratic instruments. If one then accuses them – how Their first speaker, Grollitsch, has done this – that they are developing in this way only to eventually become party officials, I think this can be seen differently: If people are willing to work for the common good also among students, I think that this is primarily something we should recognize and what is certainly a school for a social-political commitment that we might need more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is that I cannot quite understand this debate on the third date of examination. Primaryly, it is about creating opportunities and conditions under which the students who can make it possible to leave the university system as quickly as they want. The problem we have today, often referred to by the word "mass university", is not that the number of students would have increased much more than the number of teachers. The opposite is true: The number of teachers has increased in proportion more than the number of first-time staff. But the length of stay has increased, and if you look more closely, you can see very clearly that this is due, among other things, to the fact that it is difficult for students through an ever deeper graduation of exams and a difficulty in the graduation in the sequence of time – even if they are studying very quickly and have the necessary gifts, effort and everything necessary – to create this in the minimum study period. I think that we are well advised to do everything necessary in the interests of Austria, but also in the interests of the students. And I will do everything in my power to ensure that students who are diligent and committed have the opportunity to get out of and into work from universities as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third and last point – and I also shared the surprise of Mrs Ablinger – is: I was a little surprised at the statements made by Mrs Petrovic. I do not want to go into the debate on Latin or Latin for a very long time; I think this is a dispute of faith which at least is not appropriate at this depth today, because only the question of an evaluation is being discussed. I think that such a comprehensive evaluation will make a lot of effort, but otherwise it will not be able to benefit very much. What surprised me is that for my fellow colleagues who are fighting on the same side and otherwise stand up for the possibility of students being able to make a choice from a reasonable offer, this is suddenly no longer to apply in Latin. Of course, we are in favour of offering qualifications that can benefit from them. But the question is: Do we prescribe this because we big ones already know that this is good for the children, and in other things we let them choose between subjects, priorities and so on? I mean, if we represent the point of view – and I represent it – that there should also be an autonomous decision by the students here – I do not think it is right for children we have to go ahead with – then we should help them to make a reasonable decision, and we should offer them an offer from which they can choose reasonablely. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17504	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17528	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a personal comment on Latin. Mr Federal Minister, I am a learned lawyer; I began my studies at the University of Vienna by learning the questions of private law development – from Roman law up to German private law development, which I heard from Professor Brauneder – and I must say that, if I had not had Latin in school, it would certainly have been difficult for me to understand all those legal principles that apply up to our present legal order, especially in depth. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Weak!]] If you call it "weak", Mrs Colleague, I can only take it so that I do not seem to have the talent that you brought. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You're perfectly right! I'm glad you realized! You're young! But talent is inherited with the plants!]] But I just want to tell you – I don't know what you studied – from my experience: For someone who wants to start legal studies, it is important to have had Latin lessons in order to understand – perhaps not to learn the poets externally, but to understand – what is also regulated in the current legal order – from private law to criminal law – in all the Latin legal principles. That's what I'm holding on to, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to address other questions with a few comments because they have not yet been raised. One is the agreement concluded by Austria with Hungary on the issue of equality in higher education. This is an important innovation because there is an old agreement. I would not like to make a closer assessment of the formal conditions, but rather of the content. We have to get used to it – this is particularly important to me as an foreign politician – that our neighbours, who will soon be in a system with us, must be understood from their entire structure and from their economic fabric. [[Abg. May. Posch: The EU's transport languages alone...!]] This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my opinion, a prerequisite for spending some of the study period in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Germany or elsewhere. Because this is the only thing that really contributes to the understanding of another legal culture, economic culture or culture of life. That is why I think it is important and good to regulate this agreement today. I would also like to address a subject that has also been a little stressed today. I am not concerned with filtering out a special research project, such as the Greens are planning with the Hemp culture plant. I am concerned to highlight research policy in Austria as a whole. This is also a task, Mr Federal Minister, about which I think we still have too little on the table in terms of concepts. So far, there are very commendable projects – there are 3 technology billions, there is a technology concept of the Federal Government, there are a few individual proposals presented by Federal Minister Farnleitner, together with you, Mr. Federal Minister, – but we are still lacking, this is reflected in a number of additional questions. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would now like to highlight a few of them, such as the question of how we can accompany and promote the idea that arises in a small or medium-sized company until series production. When I look at previous non-university research in Austria, I have to say: There are a few successes, but there is a lack of great litter, namely in the direction of what a small or medium-sized entrepreneur can get in support of it. When I look at what the funding procedures in Austria look like, I recognize that they are primarily aligned with the larger entrepreneurs, because the smaller can probably hardly overcome all the bureaucratic effort needed to obtain support. I therefore believe that we should consider something about research in small and medium-sized enterprises. We can also say, according to the experience gained from the fourth EU framework programme, that the costs are enormous, but the net benefits are likely to be too low. The 1 000 projects, which have been funded with a net effort of about 400 to 800 million schillings, give me the thought of how we can change the procedure. It would be necessary for you to present a concept and to represent it in the EU Council of Ministers. In view of this, I raise a question that seems important to me: Is there a national pilot project for Austria? I don't hear from Eurocryst or Austron anymore. Did these projects die? I think it would be necessary for us to stick to a national lead project in order to bring about a boost. We should make a call for proposals. There should be an excuse for this. This would be important, Minister of State, in order to make real progress in the field of technology and research in Austria. I would like you to draw up and put on the table in the near future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I do not want to talk about the question of competence today, because the question of content is much more crucial, Mr President. This should not only be seen from the political point of view of which Minister is responsible, but above all from the point of view of how to help research in Austria. That's much more important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to deal with Mrs Petrovic's request for an amendment to the university study law. It requires that we have a new § 36 para. Introduce 5 in the university study law. – We have discussed this before in this House. At that time, as is the case today, there is in practice a rule as to how the rector of the relevant university can ignore these formal requirements. The fact that this is to be transferred to the competence of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has a decision to make, I think it is wrong from various points of view. Why should this competence not lie with the university someone wants to study? Why should a decision by the Federal Minister be made if, in practice, the person who cannot bring a document can really help with this provision? – I can read it: "The rector or the rector shall be entitled to check the obligation to submit individual documents if it is made credible that their submission is impossible or associated with major difficulties within a reasonable period of time and that the documents submitted are sufficient for the decision." – I think this is perfectly enough, and I believe that we should not be in favour of the flood of laws, nor should we be able to do so if we are able to deal with existing instruments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17616	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17635	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lukesch! I think your Latin-based ability to analyze texts has failed you. For I do not wish to put you in any way malicious if you confirm to my colleague Gredler that her request is aimed at introducing access restrictions at the university. They have, rather, misanalyzed, because our request is aimed at questioning the timeliness of content. This is also highly desirable because of my personal experience. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr Lukesch! In the first draft of the UniStG there was a much clearer formulation, which I would very much like to support. The study commissions would have been given the competence to define the specific admission requirements for various fields of study on their own. – The ÖVP and in particular you are talking about autonomy. However, they only use keywords. If, in fact, autonomous decisions are to be made if, in addition to the educational content, admission requirements are to be established within the framework of study committees, you see a great danger in this and conjure up various scenarios which are not covered by reality. I have confidence in the competence of the study committees. I trust them. I am really in favour of autonomy, but you are only preaching it, Mr President. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It may still be discussed whether the outcome of our request would be in a similar relationship, as the Minister has already argued. At any rate, this mild request of the Liberals, however, has called all Latin lobbyists on the plan again, and you have re-enhanced all your old, exaggerated arguments, starting from the myth of human-defining effect to the argument that language and culture and an interdisciplinary understanding can only be taught and communicated by means of this subject. Mr Lukesch! You have added a lot to these arguments. I don't need to repeat them here at all. I consider this argument to be an exaggeration! Mr Lukesch! I have nothing against Latin. I also expressly say here as a school speaker: I'm not for the abolition of Latin. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Bravo!]] The subject of Latin is to be preserved as an offer to our schools. Like other objects, Latin is to be offered as an object of choice. That's important to me! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Lukesch! If you were to put all those who did not measure in Latin into education deficits from the outset, I would feel that this is a presumption, discrimination and, as a matter of fact, allow me to use this term. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They discriminate against about 70 percent of Austrian maturants who do not mate in Latin. In any case, they discriminate against those 55 percent who take a degree in higher education and who, interestingly, turn to the Faculty of Humanities. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But there is Latin condition!]] They suggest to all those students that they are not able to work there scientifically and think scientifically, because they have not graduated in Latin. You are submitting all those who come to the university through a degree exam, study Jus there, for example, and only have to learn a specialist vocabulary – ask the Innsbruck University, there you may have access to it! – that they are not able to become good lawyers! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Don't be so arrogant!]] I just have to tell you that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This opinion – now I would like to address my speech to Mr Spindelegger, who believes that Latin would be the prerequisite for developing an understanding in the field of Jus at all – does not share the Dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Vienna. Rather, he believes that Latin knowledge in itself is not necessary for a jus study. And that also covers exactly with my personal experiences! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What is meant by "in itself"?]] Mr Lukesch! I have looked at the preparation courses for Latin at Innsbruck University. The high objectives you are talking about here are not even being sought there, let alone implemented. There is no practice-oriented or specialised approach there. I made the examination myself there, Mr Lukesch, not 20 years ago, but last year. This is the reality at the universities in Austria! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Reality is passing by colleague Lukesch!]] Mr Lukesch! I have felt this Latin examination as a pointless waste of time and as a waste of money, as have many other students. Some educational institutes in Innsbruck live from these preparations for the Latin tests. This too must be borne in mind in view of the very limited financial situation of individual students. I have not chosen a different course of education, Mr Lukesch, out of rejection of Latin. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Have you already filed the examination in Roman law?]] Of course! And I didn't miss a second in Latin, even in legal history. It may also be a question of understanding how to deal with things! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In any case, through this Latin examination, my historical knowledge has not been extended, and I have no further idea of the European philosophy that you have always associated with it. I have already completed a teaching examination for English in front of the Latinum and I have also graduated in two other languages. That's just for your information! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying: I think it is an ideological presumption from your side, Mr. Lukesch, when you force thousands of students to learn something that, according to their personal understanding and in the reality they find, does not bring any advantage, and not at all the benefits that you so unprofitably conjure up here!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17787	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17808	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on a number of previous speakers. I was not surprised at the fact that Mr Grollitsch was criticising the Austrian high school. You can criticize everything. Mr Grollisch! But what I heard from your words was more than criticism, that was a question of a democratic institution at university level! – However, this seems to me to be in line with your relationship to interests. It is only interesting that you and your party, which you have so little left for interests, still try to assert your influence there very strongly and vehemently. Mr Grollisch! I consider the Austrian high schooling to be a democratically chosen structure that represents the interests of the students. And if, for what reasons, the voter participation in the high school elections is low, this is far from a cause for questioning this representation. You've already been talking about your numbers. Nor can I imagine that the effort in reviewing the contributions paid is 150 million schilling a year. But it has already been said about it, as has been said. Mrs Gredler! They want to discuss compulsory membership at the Austrian University School. Okay! But then you have to discuss the entire system of public law agencies. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: If you want!]] No, because then we will be able to go into a subject in which we can certainly not have a discussion here. You made a suggestion, and that was my answer to it! Ladies and gentlemen, The revision of the university study law has become necessary because, as paradoxically as it may sound at the first moment, we have just recently passed this law. In view of this, of course, the question arises: Why do we change again? Does that have to be, does it make sense? – My answer: Yes, it must be! I think it is right that the legislator reacts so quickly to events which were not foreseen at the first time the law was passed. There's been a law gap. If we do not make this revision today, then the Austrian high school should in part give up its revenue. That is why we will, of course, give our approval to this amendment. But if we are already on the topic of Austrian high school, I would like to raise a problem that has been the subject in recent years and which is still not solved, namely the question of passive voting rights for foreign students. – I stand for this passive right of election for foreign students and appeal to all here in the house, who are not yet ready to reflect on this question in good time and to go with us so that the relevant provisions can already enter into force in the next high school elections. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It appears more than logical and justified to update the Studienförderungsgesetz as a result of the new provisions in the University's Studiengesetz. There is only a right to study funding for that semester, for which a further notification has been made. However, Vice versa will no longer be included in the duration of the funding without full participation in the study and examination activities. That means in concrete terms: If a student fails to report on the continuation of his studies for one or two semesters and does not complete any course exams, he will not receive funding. However, these semesters do not count in relation to the duration of the claim, and the promotion of studies can, of course, come back to life in the event of new reporting and in the event of the fulfilment of the other requirements. . I believe that this is also a sensible innovation, and we will therefore also give our approval to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17844	I am just listening to the fact that an actual correction is required, although it does not appear in the computer. Please, Mr Grollitsch. Actual correction: 2 minutes, to correct facts, actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17868	Federal Minister! Mr Stippel has just said that I would have questioned the democratic institution of the Austrian high school in my speech. – This statement or statement is incorrect. I just asked for a check on the deposits from universities to high school. I can say: I myself have been a student representative for five years, and I have not at least made a reference to this democratic institution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17892	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17914	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I join with Mr Schöggl and Mr Stippel on the alleged disturbed relationship between the FPÖ and the Austrian high school. Mr Stippel! I can assure you: We have no disturbed relationship with Austrian high school! However, we have an disturbed relationship with compulsory membership. Mr President, I should like to thank If you only understand a representation of interest as an efficient representation of interests if it is associated with a compulsory membership, then forget You do not ask that you at the same time harm or lower the Austrian Trade Union Confederation as a voluntary representative. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also allow colleagues Lukesch to write this into the main book. Mr Lukesch! You have done something by saying that a request aimed at the exemption of scholarships in the research field is not necessary at all. Mr Lukesch! They have called for an essay in the "Austrian tax newspaper" that I also have in front of me. The fact that tax experts on twelve sides deal with the question of the obligation to pay or non-tax liability for scholarships in the research field alone proves that there is legal uncertainty here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's just the summary!]] The same legal uncertainty also existed in the cultural and art fields for scholarships, because both facts, i.e. scholarships in favour of art, on the one hand scholarships in favour of research, and the same provision of the Income Tax Act, were applicable. In art one has created clarity. In the field of science, however, you do not want to do that. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: There is no reason to do so!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I don't have much time. However, I would like to say or quote this very briefly. In this opinion, it is literally carried out in the "Austrian tax newspaper": "Fundaments of this kind" – i.e. research scholarships – "may be economically related to an self-employed main activity of the grantee and, for this reason, can be counted among the income from non-self-employed work." The same applies to the dissertation and diploma thesis scholarships. If a scholarship student is involved in the research activities of an institute, this dissertation and diploma thesis may be taxed. – Read one more in this article, Mr Lukesch! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, with all the professorial superiority to which you tend, I would like to say the following: There are only two options. The one possibility is: They have read the article and have not understood it. The second possibility is: They have read and understood him, but consciously reinterpreted!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17976	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e17995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, one tends to add another comment on the topic "Latin: cultural subject, yes or no?" to make it. I would like to start with Mrs Schaffenrath and say a few sentences to her. – You are an example of an intentional misunderstanding: Never was it about the duty to mate in Latin, the talk. Mrs Gredler has interpreted her request once again and, if I have understood it correctly, has said that it is a matter of raising up – the universities or the ministers should do so – what conditions the students from the school have to bring for their respective studies. – This is a strange understanding of the autonomy of the institutions when the universities now say what curriculum content is to be taught in higher schools! It also said that consideration should be given to the special needs of Latin, medical, technical or other students. This means that, in reality, specific courses of teaching must also be developed in a very individual way. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus we adopt general, transparent, democratically determined standards in the field of education towards total individualization or, as I would like to say, atomization of education and its content. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: There you can see what misunderstandings Latin leads to!]] That's probably not how it's done! I would ask you to clarify this misunderstanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] I believe that you – and others here too – still mix something. I now want to include the presentation of my personal experiences. You can sometimes also die of your own biography, Mrs. Dr. Gredler, and it does well to step back and reflect things. What does our evening tradition look like? You will be able to express this to all the serious still sincere gangs! – On the one hand, we place our culture in the museum and regret its disappearance. But we could also make this so-called "dead" Latin very alive and not abuse it – as it is often practice – as a subject of shock for enforcement weak teachers or as a slave for students who want to study science and languages. Because not the feeder function is the quality, but its own sense of education! And I am very much in favour of dissociating ourselves from the American, global Mc-Donaldized culture and from the domination of the economic discourse and defining ourselves in a European way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is very good for all of us! - So much for it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what the citizen understands!]] Mrs Gredler! I think that we should not say goodbye to the rationality and the theory competence you have quoted and insulted! Because the new esoteric esoteric is much more dangerous than the infatuation of the theory than the black stage of a classical classical metaphysics! Now on another issue, because we still have a few templates to deal with. It is gratifying that the Minister of State is thinking about the evaluation – once again such a Latin word! - women's promotion measures. That's good at us! Ladies and gentlemen! However, the focus is to be focused not only on this important special issue but also on the quality of the university as a whole. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we know: The anchoring of autonomous structures in organizational law and law of study and the setting up of universities do not bring any better quality. In this context, there is also the need for system-theoretical thinking. That means – to talk to Jürgen Wilke –: The State and the public authorities need to consider and carry out their own supervision in order to be able to define those tasks that are public matters, and those which are the matter of private and autonomous institutions. Federal Minister! At this point your and our common task begins. The communication process must be organized, and I believe that I am right in the analysis that the first is a lot of work, but the second is necessary. I only need to look at the newspapers every day. Please try to organize this communication process, this thoughtful and organisational process with the institutions that have just been released into autonomy, to the universities! This action needs to be done so that quality can be guaranteed! I do not think it is appropriate to leave universities alone as centres of knowledge with this knowledge in this relative conclusion and then to regret it if the public of this institution does not receive sufficient knowledge and appreciation and, at the same time, cannot benefit from it. Again: Federal Minister for Science and Transport! Try to organize this communication! As the Minister for Science and Transport, I would like to say it in a nutshell: It's the highest railway! Let's start with this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18058	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Gredler. This is the second word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18086	Mr. Khol! You can certainly express yourself much better on Latin than I do, but I will probably express myself in French better than you! The question is: How many people will you understand, and how many people will understand me? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Si vous voulez, nous peavons pearl français aussi!]] You know, it's great fun for me to express myself in living languages and use a variety of them and not just to have to resort to a dead language! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I know you like my speeches and always listen to my words, and I am grateful for them! But tell me: What actually is the advantage of people really having to master this language because it is important in their studies? I'm talking about Latin learning students in fast-seated courses at the university. Within a semester, they learn Latin to create the exam. But from Latin, they still have no idea. The condition of study, the sense of language, of which Mrs. Dr. Petrovic believes that it is so important for the lawyers, they cannot develop at all at this short stage! That is why, I believe, it is a lie to say that it cannot be discussed. Mrs. Brinek! I just want to tell you that it is obviously a misunderstanding: I have never said that the study committees should define which types of training students should be admitted to them. I do not, of course, want us to say goodbye to the general maturity of higher education. I don't want to. Delete Latin or Greek or Greek geometry as objects in toto. Those who want this should be able to choose these subjects in schools. It is of course very important for some who have access such as Mrs. Dr. Petrovic to have this basis for life. I think that's totally okay. In reality, however, two thirds of the maturants did not choose this access, but another. Why should these two thirds of the university, after being tormented in fast-seated courses, quickly and quickly make an examination? I would like you to take a look at how this is done at such an examination. I had the pleasure of experiencing this because I made this test myself. It was very enjoyable for me. They even threatened me with an award that I thanked, however, because I felt that a positive witness was enough for me, because I do not need to prove to the world what great knowledge I have! And I did not show up in this exam because I dominated Latin, but because I could bluff properly because of my French knowledge. This has obviously been enough! I'm just saying, I didn't learn Latin, but I learned to bluff in Latin. That's the only thing I've been given. As a basis for my medical studies, my Latin knowledge was not sufficient at all, quite the contrary. Then I had to deal seriously with what these Latin expressions, which were suddenly spoken of in anatomy, mean. However, I had the advantage of knowing many expressions about the French language, unlike my Austrian colleagues who had graduated from an Austrian school. I just want to say: What I do not understand is that, in the secondary education system of Latin, we agree more and more that fewer and fewer students want to have this teaching as the basis for their lives, but at the same time, on the detour of a regulation by the Minister of Education, the importance of Latin as an access requirement for the tertiary sector will be maintained artificially. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We are very glad that you were better, Mrs. Colleague!]] I understand, of course, that there are professional interests to be taken into account. I also understand that we cannot change a system from today to tomorrow. But one can at least have a compensatory effect if, after the study commissions have been consulted, the need arises. I am in favour of the study commissions being consulted. In this application there is in no sentence anything about the abolition of Latin, Greek or representational geometry. All those who claim this would be mistaken and would have to read this request properly or develop the corresponding sense of language. I'm happy to be helpful. I would like to continue with a few brief comments on two requests which I did not comment on earlier. One is the request made by Mr Krüger regarding tax exemption from scholarships and prices from science and research. This is only an approximation to the artists. One can discuss whether this is the right way in its totality. In any case, I believe that it is the right approach to award a tax exemption. I think this is very motivating for the researchers concerned. What I should like to comment on is Mrs Petrovic's request on the cultivation plant of hemp. Of course, the Hemp culture plant is a very interesting thing. But I can fully endorse the comments made by Mrs Ablinger. I didn't know what specialist...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18140	Mrs. Dr. Gredler! Now the total speaking time of 20 minutes is over. Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18167	...to which specialist we can use in the high house. So I join this in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18197	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18227	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For years Austria, with an academic share of only about 6 percent, has been in the lowest third of comparable industrial countries. We must therefore increase this share and make our academics internationally competitive. As stated in Amendment 433/A (E), it is not appropriate for the sending institution, namely the school, to determine the additional requirements of a study direction. Should teachers, for example, be protected and not students to EU mature academics trained? – Hardly a job remains the same today from the start of the career to retirement in its requirements. This also applies to the school area. I would like to focus briefly on Latin as a study requirement for medicine. Young people who choose to study medicine – a natural science study – usually undergo a natural science training in their AHS time. ==References== Class AHS choose between Latin, mathematical branch or a second living foreign language. BHS graduates do not have this choice. It is absurd to learn Latin in the time of an enlarged EU instead of a second living foreign language. In addition to comprehensive practical and theoretical medical knowledge, the most important thing for doctors is the absolute mastery of the English language, the international congress and scientific language. [[Demonstrative applause at the Liberal Forum and applause at SPÖ.]] All major publications are in English. Medical terminology is taken from both Latin and Greek; knowledge of the Gallic war, the Golden Age, the Aenees, or the writings of the Tacitus is neither necessary nor helpful. Using a few examples, I would like to show you the change between Latin and Greek in medical terminology: The uterus is removed by hysterectomy, the line by splenectomy. The removal of the test is the orchiektomy, which corresponds to the castration of the male individual. By cultivation of the pulmo, pneumonia can be diagnosed, by gastroscopy the ulcus or neoplasm ventriculi. Renal anaemia is identical to nephrogenic anaemia. The Cor consists of the Endo, Myo and Epicard. – After six years of school late, this terminology was new to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Latin forces precise constructions. This is not enough, however, as we see from the example of the United States, as a study requirement for medicine. Those who saw Latin as a necessary part of their education have difficulties in evaluating Latin as immaterial. Education is not a rigid asset; it must be based on the challenges of the present and the future. We'll have the discussion on this late. More than 40 years ago, my father believed that ancient Greek was essential for higher education, and was deeply sad that I did not want to go to the humanistic gymnasium. Today we have already separated ourselves from this educational idea of the ancient Greek. The next step must be followed. The human brain is intended for a certain capacity of knowledge. An oversupply of impressions prevents the engramming of new insights. We must separate ourselves from the obsolete and be willing to change for the future. As it does not make sense to amend the university study law so shortly after the decision has been taken, without waiting for the study commissions to decide, we do not agree to this request today. The Ministry of Science will closely monitor what additional examinations are required as a study requirement in the future and whether a legislative change is needed. With regard to the demand for a vice-decanor for large faculties, I draw attention to the difference between the medical faculties and the others. In addition to teaching and research, the dean of the medical faculty must coordinate the clinic's operation, compliance with the medical law and medical training. Professors of clinical subjects also have to devote themselves to patient care and the leadership of the primary. If it is a great burden for a pre-clinical, without fulfilling all tasks, it is impossible for a clinician. No other faculty has such a variety of activities. However, due to the increased assignment of tasks to the dean of study, after an observation period, it should be examined whether further deans should be established. On request 303/A (E), I conclude by saying that the structural adjustment laws were necessary, but also painful and all areas concerned. It is understandable that savings have been made where the lowest demand exists. Discrimination was not intended. For the future, I wish to further improve our universities as well as increase the academic share, and I wish for an innovation and science-friendly environment in Austria for our researchers, universities and businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18301	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18322	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Pittermann is now unable to compete. But I would also like to say to those who are now torn down: Keep exercise a little further, to say something – not quite on the matter – about Latin. If I see it correctly, the Austrian legal language now knows two Latin expressions, Mrs Petrovic. They are in the ABGB text and were created in 1811. In addition to both expressions, the German expression is in parentheses. All the financial law is a bar of every Latin expression; you can't understand it either. I do not want to say that I am against Latin. However, please also allow me to make this comment: I don't think I could have been better able to understand myself at a guest professorship in Kansas with Latin than with English, which I had only ruled as a school English until then. [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] I don't want to light a Latin discussion here. But one will have to be clarified once: We need to know the point of view. If one considers Latin to be a cultural asset, one must also say, in every subject for which one considers this cultural property to be a prerequisite: This requires a Latin matura from the beginning, and therefore it is completely pointless to make a Latin fast-seated course sometime later. When I say, I absolutely need Latin in the Romance languages, because I cannot otherwise learn French or Italian, then I also have to know Latin from the beginning, and not, as today for example, with Italian, that I can pick up Latin – I think, even in the fifth, sixth or seventh semesters. This is the blatant proof that you can learn Italian without having had Latin before. [[In the case of the Liberals and the Liberal Forum, as well as the applause of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] But, as I have said, I do not want to continue the Latin discussion here; I just did not want to speak on the matter quite. I shall now come to the points that are a little more of my heart, and of course these are our own requests. I would like to say in advance all the speakers who, as it were, have put something under us and misinterpreted us – I do not mean this as a criticism, because jurisdiction, theology and other sciences live from different interpretations – that in our applications we have not called for the abolition, introduction or deletion, but only – or even, at the point of view – the transfer of certain materials into the autonomous sphere of universities. If the government parties have repeatedly been told of the high value of university autonomy – for example, in the university study law – then we must consider the following: There is no doubt that a decision is to be taken in the autonomous field. You will have noticed that I have reached the heart of the matter, namely the third date of examination. This distinguishes itself from the two other examination dates in a blatant way by the fact that he has to lie in the middle of the semester. In the middle of the semester, the study is under way. You heard it before: Physicians have their opinion on medical studies. They say here and there also something about the other studies, but they say something specific about the medical study because it is just a specific study. In the semester, the course of studies is specific, and therefore it should be in the autonomous field of the faculties whether or not they want to introduce this third examination date. I say it again: It's not going to end at all. On the other hand, I would like to say that I have been checking for a third examination date since about 15, 20 semesters, twice a year. So it's okay, but it's not anywhere else. Now I come to the legal problem associated with this third date of examination. The former ÖVP politician – I do not know if the word "external" is true – Bernd Schilcher believes that you, Mr. Federal Minister, are to be characterized by saying: He's a bit of a regulation-wrong. – I would like to share this opinion a little: One cannot regulate everything with laws; and if, then, the question always arises in which direction these laws go. In the third examination date at a large faculty, there is a clear conflict between several regulations, namely those relating to a third examination date in the middle of the semester, and rules on deadlines. I'll give you a short copy... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! "Exemplifying" is not a good word!]] I can give you an example. The application period in summer is longer than the legal period, and a deadline for the suspension of the examination dates comes, and in between, of course, the applications have to be processed. After this period of time, the written examination – where written and oral examinations are planned – comes, after which the written clause must be corrected – which takes a long time for large faculties, and then the oral examination comes again twice with deadlines. At an examination date in October, I am at a large faculty with this examination process on 5 October. December finished. There is just a deadline for a second appointment in January. That is why I ask you, after our request, not to suspect a bleak reason for the students, but to see him for this legal reason as he is meant. One last word – it only concerns something small – to the agreement with Hungary. I very much welcome this agreement and would like to ask all those who are now voting on this agreement to look closely at it. In particular, they may take a look at the list of Hungarian universities and note how many private universities already exist there compared to the Austrian list on which there is no such one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18372	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18393	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in the university study law and the associated commitment to offer at least three exam dates in each semester brought much excitement – incomprehensible excitement, as I mean. We took this step from the ÖVP at the time because we wanted to offer students an additional opportunity to take exams, so we wanted to give them the chance to be even more diligent. But apparently there are faculties – and a party in this plenary session – that did not want to do so. We are definitely in favour, and we stand by these students. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a look at the situation of the students. We continue to discuss the future financing of our studies. One thing has to be clear to us: Studying costs the state a lot of money, and every semester more that a student needs to complete his studies increases the costs. In my view, therefore, it is up to the politicians and the professors to create framework conditions that allow for faster completion. The introduction of a mandatory third examination date was therefore necessary and is also in line with the wishes of the student representatives. I therefore do not understand the faculties that oppose this regulation. It's just like I'm answering a request from the Ministry of Science from the 15th century. December 1997 – the Faculty of Law of the Universities of Vienna and Graz as well as the Faculty of Social and Economic Sciences of the Universities of Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck. However, one of the reasons for the long average duration of the study is that there are only two examination dates per semester for the core subjects. If you fall through once, a whole semester is gone. I understand that Mr Brauneder must speak against this regulation because he was probably sent forward to the front by his colleagues at the Vienna jurisprudence, so to speak. So he had the task of acting like that. However, the fact that the whole FPÖ is involved is evidence of a policy that is not particularly student-friendly. Ladies and gentlemen! When the Board of Directors of the Institute for the Law of the University of Vienna on 13 May, Vienna January of this year – in my memory it was in the "Press" – writes that a third examination date is not feasible because in the core subjects per start about 100 to 200 works are to be corrected, so it must be contradicted. First of all, it should be said that in the core subjects, not every examiner will check at any time. This means keeping the time overlaps and the overloads within limits. Secondly, it will not be possible to assume that all 100 to 200 test subjects will have to go through and start again, but that the number of new entrants will be significantly lower than the main date. Thus, the 100 to 200 test subjects will only be better distributed; unless the tests are more severe, so that several actually fall through as already announced. There is therefore a need to offer students this opportunity. All in all, I believe that a great deal of progress has been made on the question of the third date of examination for our students, who are always required. That the excitement of the "rebellian" faculties will soon lie down, I am convinced, and the practice will soon teach the skeptics a better person. Finally, it is about securing the high standard of our academics in international comparison and reducing study time to a reasonable degree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18445	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18466	Mr President. Minister! High house! I will just comment on three points in a short time. First: This amendment to the University of St.G. is based on the fact that the Austrian University of Applied Sciences continues to be guaranteed the payment of the ÖH contribution, taking into account that students are now obliged to report the continuation of their studies within the general admission period if they wish to take course examinations. As no other sanctions are provided for in the UniStG, this novelle is justified, especially since it is limited to two years until the technical conditions are created for a student-friendly and efficient management of study evidence and all relevant data – such as ÖH membership, audit evidence, family aid, social security, student funding et cetera – can be handled unbureaucratically. Secondly, I hope that the Facultys of Law of the Universities of Vienna and Graz as well as the Facultys of Social and Economic Sciences of the Universities of Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck will now be able to do so, the University of Graz, which has now entered into force in § 53 para. 2 to perform and offer their students three exam dates. Although I understand the professorial needs, I think that it is essential to offer three examination dates in the sense of a fast study, especially since we have nevertheless made it difficult for the grant of scholarships, family allowance et cetera, to reduce study times. However, this also requires a higher degree of flexibility in the course of the study. That is why I do not think it appropriate to go back to the old legal situation by converting it into a cannibal provision, as requested by President Brauneder's amendment 653/A. Thirdly, I cannot hide a certain sympathy for Mr Gredler's motion for a resolution 433/A (E) because I have already pleaded with the UniStG that the respective study committees should be able to determine which specific admission requirements should be met in the course of the study in question next to the mature examination. The country of the evening would certainly not go down. I absolutely do not understand what Mr Petrovic has said today. This massive plea for Latin will give the students a lot to think about at the universities. As I said, the country of the evening would not go down, and it would be found very quickly that the earth will continue to rotate. However, I believe that, in such a case, consideration should be given to the special professional situation of the Latin and Greek teachers. But under these conditions, I might well win a novelle a few things.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18511	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's final comments are not wanted. We shall therefore proceed to the votes; they will be made separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1053 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at second reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval at third reading give a sign on this point. The proposal was adopted at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1054 of the Supplements. I should also like to ask for a sign of approval in this case. The proposal was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1055 of the supplements. In case of notice, I ask for a sign. The Committee's report will be taken note of by a large majority. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1056 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – The Committee’s request was adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1057 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to show this. This request was adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the Republic of Hungary on equality in higher education and facilities to be approved. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this agreement give a sign. – This Agreement shall be approved unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1025 of the supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. This request was adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1026 of the supplements. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This request has also been adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1027 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This request was also adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1028 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – The request was accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1029 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This request has also been adopted by a majority. 21. Point First reading of Mr MMag's request 618/A. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 (StVO)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18674	Now I'm allowed to do the 21st. Call item on the agenda. The applicant, Dr Petrovic, has the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18698	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The request made in October of last year is now, at the time of the first reading, of great topicality: on the one hand, because of the fact that there is a large number of initiatives from the populace, the complaint about an ever stronger noise pollution, and on the other hand, due to the start-up of the European Union, on the other hand, one in my view of a lack of understanding of the principle of free movement of goods over all others, including environmental and health objectives, and thus to call into question Austrian regulations which provide for a restriction of heavy traffic movements. This change in road traffic regulations provides for the simple removal of an existing exception. In the future, as in the past, vehicles of the road service should be fully able to carry out their duties even during the night hours, as well as vehicles of the Federal Army, whose commissioning is essential for the maintenance of the military service. There would certainly be a question of whether we should not take more account of the requirements of noise protection there. But we did not want to go too far beyond the existing legal situation with this amendment. However, we hold these today in § 42 para. 6 contained an exception to the ban on night-time driving in respect of so-called low-noise motor vehicles. On the one hand, all citizens' initiatives can testify to you – this noise poverty is a very relative thing. In particular, due to the increase in driving movements and the total distance, and also by the absolute increase in these motor vehicles, which may be called "lamermarm" – under quotation marks – the original discharge of the population has already been almost made. There are shift effects everywhere. There is a greater burden on almost all higher-ranking roads and also on state and municipal roads. Overall, it has been shown that noise is not only disturbing and annoying, but also a health risk, especially during the night hours. That is why we consider it reasonable that a general ban should be imposed at night. This would also, in particular, have the advantage of defending existing regional regulations, which are currently under serious threat from the European legal system, within the framework of a general system for the protection of the environment and health. In the current situation, in particular, the higher brenner night toll of an EU review is not expected to withstand, and the higher night toll, which has actually led to a significant reduction in the burden on the population, is at risk and will perhaps fall. I therefore believe that we should not suspend the accusation that individual sections of the population are discriminated against or that individual noise-troubled parts of the population are preferred, but should understand us as a general ban on night-time driving.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18738	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18759	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that Austria is under international pressure in transit questions, and I believe that the Austrian Parliament has concluded to stand behind the Austrian Minister for Transport. Because this is an Austrian position and not a private pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen! These are three main points. On the one hand, we must be aware that the European Union is finally negotiating a transit agreement with Switzerland, which significantly reduces the 30 to 40 percent transit transit through Austria. We must therefore avoid a cost advantage when, for example, driving over the Brenner, and Switzerland must finally get through to accept the 40-tonne limit. I think it is a great success for EU Member Swoboda and Stenzl that they have made a request in the EU Parliament, with which they have clearly enabled the Commission currently negotiating to consider that no EU Member State may be penalised by a future transit agreement than Switzerland and that Switzerland should be involved in a pan-European transport concept. I therefore believe that we must consistently strive for a transit agreement between the EU and Switzerland and support the British Presidency, which is now also planning to operate it actively. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we Austrians must really join forces to resist – I have to formulate it so dramatically – in order to counter the efforts of parts of the EU Commission, which, under the slogan of harmonisation, want to bring down the really strict Austrian transit regulations, especially the night-time ban on non-noise trucks. High house! This would, of course, lead to an increase in loud night traffic and a decreasing acceptance in the population. In addition, there would be a real disadvantage for the Austrian freighters, who have acquired low-noise trucks. Workers would come for their night and Sunday rest, and finally the efforts of EU transport policy to internalize external costs would be counterbalanced. Ladies and gentlemen! The pursuit of the principles of transport prevention, relocation and cost-effectiveness must be our objective. I would like to see the Austrian Commissioner Franz Fischler fully supporting our considerations in the Commission. He has strong allies – Germany and France also take our position. Thirdly, I think we should agree on the ecopoint system. The system works. The EU has accepted that until 31. ==References====External links== But on April, everything will run on schedule. Mr Petrovic! With regard to the EU's complaint concerning the height of the Brennermaut, we must take the EU out of the sails by considering whether it can not be extended to cover the accusation of the relatively short Brenner line. We must look at that, we need to discuss it. A final remark to the request itself: In fact, from the point of view of the SPÖ Group, I cannot imagine that a comprehensive extension of the night-time ban can also be made on low-noise trucks. This would partly cause economic traffic in Austria, would lead to serious difficulties in the transport of fresh goods in food, and would clearly discriminate against those who have now turned to low-noise trucks at a high cost. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we will discuss these matters in depth in the Committee. I hope that we can find this joint Austrian position and thus also the Austrian Minister of Transport can strengthen the backs of his negotiations in Europe accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18816	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18837	Mr President. High house! Allow me three comments on Mrs Petrovic's request. First: The regulation currently under discussion in the EU on a general arrangement for both the bans on Sundays and holidays as well as the ban on night-traveling would also exclude a general ban on night-traveling for Austria if it could be decided in such a way and had a corresponding legal basis. In that respect, this request would go empty. However, we are, and this is a reason why I have spoken, quite clearly disputed the right of the EU to adopt general rules on these issues, because it is a road transport police measure which is to be regulated in national law rather than at EU level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: The Tyrolean Landtag has unanimously asked me to lay down a general ban on trucks at night on this route, if it fails to maintain the toll regulation on the burner, which has a very strong differentiation in the price and thus has a very strong traffic steering effect, in this form and with this effect. I have explained at all times – and I declare this today – that I am seeking a political solution to the question of toll in Europe. However, in the light of the discussions on a general regulation in Europe aimed at restricting the scope for taxation of transport, I have already initiated in December an investigation procedure for such a, not general and Austrian-wide, but regionally limited night driving ban. If necessary, we must prepare for this case. Third and last point – Durability of the night toll: In my view, it is quite clear that the principle of the EU Treaties applies to the fact that at most we are allowed to demand the costs of the infrastructure via the toll, namely the costs of the construction, operation and maintenance of this infrastructure. But these are necessarily average costs. However, average costs must be applied in such a way that a lower rate is required during the night and during the day because it cannot be expected that the same costs will be demanded at any time, but that overall no more will be taken than corresponds to the costs. This average cost assessment allows for the collection of a high night toll with a high control effect, and I will fight for this with all my strength in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18884	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18905	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We cannot take much of Mrs Petrovic's request from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I think it is typical of the anti-road transport attitude of the Greens, which is to build road transport to thebuhmann of society and to pursue, first and foremost, a transport policy of prevention, which in reality does not offer any feasible and concrete proposals and which is also constitutionally worrying. So far, it has been a night-time ban with the exception of the lärmarious trucks, which has led to the conversion of low-noise trucks. This shows that this measure was correct. As a result, truck transport has become more quiet and environmentally friendly, and this is already an important step forward. What would the realization of your proposal really mean? – It would result in a complete congestion of traffic in the morning and in the evening, when the traffic of professional and commuters has reached the peak, and thus a much more severe burden than is the case at present. There would be a delay in the delivery of fresh goods and general supply problems in the early years. Finally, your argument of noise reduction is not correct, because already every single small truck or van in the standard version causes at least as high noise emissions as a lignite truck with over 7.5 tons of total weight. Scientific noise measurements have shown that cars have virtually the same noise levels at 110 kilometres as trucks at 60 kilometres; as the Constitutional Court has also noted in a statement. Therefore, maximum speeds at night were set on the Inntal motorway, 60 km for trucks and 110 km for cars. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the facts on this issue, beyond all the green transport ideology. These facts cannot be shaken! Mrs Petrovic! I believe that your proposal is also unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court annulled the ban on night-time driving on Loferer Bundesstraße B 312 and found, in this regard, that the inclusion of noise-free motor vehicles in the night-time ban contradicts the level of equality, because, first, the freighters could rely on the current legal situation in the purchase of lärmarm trucks or on the conversion to low-noise trucks, namely that they are allowed to drive lärmarm trucks during the night-time, and second, that the inclusion of lärmarm trucks in the night-pass ban does not lead to any additional protection of the population and the environment, but entails serious disadvantages for the transport sector and the rest of the economy. These arguments and these findings are still in the same way as they did a few years ago. That is why we reject your request. He is obviously unconstitutional, he is a traffic-political coup, and he is also an expression of a totally unrealistic transport ideology. To the EU's planned easing of weekend, holiday and night driving bans, I clearly and clearly note: The People's Party acknowledges the current rules. They make sense of transport policy, they have proved to be successful, and there is therefore no reason to change it. The EU's demands for changes, which, by the way, are not particularly up-to-date, are now a challenge for the Minister of Transport and for its enforcement. It is important to convince the Social Democratic Transport Commissioner Kinnock and the majority of the Socialist Transport Ministers in the EU that their proposals and demands are covered and lead to new difficulties, in particular by the collision of leisure transport with freight on weekends and holidays. We must not, therefore, be convinced primarily by Commissioner Fischler, but by the social-democratic friends of the Federal Ministers. One should come up with a solution that is compatible with both the European Union and Austria. I would like the Minister for Transport at European level to see the necessary impact!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18956	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e18978	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, we have looked at this request very closely. We too cannot agree with this, or we can share it with him, since we believe that some of the arguments put forward are very appropriate. Federal Minister! I have heard your opinion and now have the corresponding article of today's "press" in my hand. Before, you mentioned that: You will be represented in this position in Brussels. I do not want to mention the points you have raised here, but to quote you briefly from the press: "EU Transport Minister Kinnock stated that the EU would have the right to regulate if desired by the Member States. He announced that the EU Commission was still standing before the Transport Council on 17 November. It will address the issue of EU-wide coordination of weekend, holiday and night driving bans. At the same time, the Commissioner de facto excluded the possibility of an Austrian veto. "I would be very surprised if the decision did not fall by qualified majority in the Council of Ministers," said Kinnock to Austrian EU correspondents." This is a statement that gives us much to think about, because that means a step in national rights. In Tyrol there is already an increased toll in relation to the truck night driving ban. The European Commission has brought an action before the European Court of Justice in this respect, and I believe that the EU Commission will be able to do so and that this increased toll needs to be reintroduced. But it is not about what the EU wants, but about what we want here in Austria. What are the disadvantages of this application? – There would be a great danger to local supply, and there would also be huge disadvantages for transport operators insofar as increased road taxes have already been introduced and entrepreneurs have also changed to low-noise trucks and would therefore be punished again. We certainly don't take that away from the liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another disadvantage would be that foreign transport operators would be very preferred on the international market, especially those from the East who have much lower labour costs and additional labour costs and would therefore have much easier on the international market. Mrs Petrovic! They were chairmen for a short time during the visit of the Italian delegation which took place in the last two days. On this occasion, the Italian Senator pointed out to you that this was a single entry of the Austrian Parliament and that the EU would not accept such single entrances. That's exactly what the "unity party" in the main book belongs to. First of all, we have been forced to join the EU, and now we want to create our own laws again. We now belong to the European Community, and you must take note of and observe the rules that are being made there. In this sense, the demand for the Federal Government to put a real order in the field of ecopoints, which has not been adequately regulated so far: In Tyrol, the ecopoints are really well controlled, according to my knowledge, but in the other federal states too little is done, so that statistics show much more journeys through Austria than due to the ecopoints are used. Moreover, as mentioned earlier, the erodement of the weekend or holiday ban would concern national interests, and we certainly cannot agree with that. I therefore believe that this request, Mrs Petrovic, has been put far beyond the objective.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19047	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19068	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the first reading is intended to deal with the basic features of an application, I would also like to do so. – The basis of this request is to introduce a general ban on night-time driving without differentiation, on the grounds that there is a special noise sensitivity at night and therefore there is also a special noise pollution, even through low-noise trucks. The Liberals believe that such an indifferent view is not justified. Because the argument that "these vehicles" – namely the noisy motor vehicles – are "not really quiet", as the Greens write in their explanatory statement, is probably a value judgment. We think it would be more sensible to change the fleets to low-noise trucks in general. Where locally limited the need to continue reducing noise levels will be possible, it will be possible to act with appropriate rules. But then the approach is to fear a risk of health caused by noise pollution. And, of course, that's to stop. The Liberals are therefore represented in the Committee when discussing this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19099	Mrs Moser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19120	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw particular attention to our request for updates. Several previous speakers have already pointed to the current development within the EU. You may also know the press release by Commissioner Fischler, in which he very strongly complains that we Austrians have not made any concrete proposals for transport, that we have no concrete and clear transport principles and that our negotiating position in Brussels is not tangible and not noticeable. – You, Mr Minister, sit here and, as an oath, make an oath that you now want to become more active in the EU. However, I believe that fire is on the roof. It burns! In this first quarter, the ban on night driving, which has already been implemented in Austria in the first place and which we want to extend with our request, is to fall. I believe that, in view of this, the transport policy sirens have to cry. It is important to finally come to a truly clear principle within Austria, which means that rest must reign at night. The foreign exchange "Road free even at night for truck traffic!" It is just as ideological as our view that we do not want any noise at night. The debate on the noise at night is just about the questions: Do I accept a human right to sleep? Do I also accept a social right to rest for truck drivers at night? The latter also have a right to rest once and not have to drive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] This social right or the right to work of the truck drivers shall be taken into account as well as the right of passengers living on transit routes to rest. That's why I don't understand your polemics. They put a transport policy, in which man takes precedence, in the corner of any ideology, while you are unable to recognize your own ideology, which means: Railway free for every traffic, no matter how useful it is! – I think you have to keep your mind on that! It must be pointed out and pointed you into the barriers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The facts are not on your side, but on our side. Transit is increasing, truck transport is increasing, noise is increasing, pollutants are also increasing. And all this should increase even more, with the EU's backwind, so to speak, under the cover of the EU. Mr Verkehrsminister! It's really high time. I fear, however, that you are already sitting on the shorter branch. It should be very difficult to combat what the EU is up to and what threatens us from March on with so-called road police regulations. I believe that there will only be more than one means in March, namely that, in an emergency, the population clearly identifies the Alpine bar in a blockade with people. For something else is no longer possible in such a transport policy as you are responsible for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19177	No further words are available. I therefore close the debate during the first reading and accept the presentation 618/A to the Committee on Transport. 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (917 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Investment Fund Act (InvFG) (995 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19214	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Firlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19238	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, a 60-billion schilling market – the one for investment funds – is one too important matter in itself, in order to deal with it quickly shortly before 23:00. But you get used to a lot of grief in financial laws. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December 1997, before the last plenary session, the Financial Committee discussed it. However, it was not put on the next agenda for the general surprise and surprise. The reason for this parliamentary non-treatment is ludicrous to me. The official version – as one can see from a daily newspaper – is that the President-in-Office simply forgot about this item before the last meeting on the agenda. However, according to the unofficial version, there have been serious concerns and delayed opinions in the course of the review process. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what version of reality corresponds to, but I just know that each of these two variants is bad. In my opinion, if the first variant applies, it is an incredible sloppy, which only represents the continuation of a whole series of sloppy acts of legislation, and if the second version applies, then this is a significant picture of the Austrian situation: that one is waiting, just because an institution has passed a period of time, specifically the Austrian Bar Association. One is waiting because an institution is apparently more important than parliamentary treatment. Once again, the real constitution has acquired the legislative constitution, the legalist constitution, but it seems to be getting used to it. The result, ladies and gentlemen, is that today we are again adopting a law which will enter into force retroactively, retroactively with 1. January 1998. Even if we are just writing in January for a few days now, it is a retroactive law, and I can only tell you that this is pretty much the last thing an international investor audience wants. This is the last thing in the financial world to be blamed, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the red-black unit group, do not seem to worry about it. You're doing it anyway. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Ask They once value international investors how much they value the retroactive laws. If you don't know that, my colleague, you just have no idea! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, on a number of points of content. I recognize that there are in principle a number of improvements, but I must also say, Mr State Secretary, that they have been launched half-heartedly. I welcome the fact that you have created a number of improvements – for example, extended publicity obligations in the interests of investor protection – and I also welcome the inclusion of financial derivatives in investment provisions and the possibility of interest-rate and foreign exchange swaps, for example. But what does that mean when you look at it in practice, ladies and gentlemen? – For example, you can include options for security. In practice, this means that domestic options can be addressed to domestic pension values, but not to German federal futures or federal bonds, for example. This reflects the distance from reality, ladies and gentlemen, because we in Austria now have to do with very narrow titles. I would also like, above all, to criticise those provisions in the existing Investment Fund Act which favour large banks in terms of emissions. Once again, these provisions have not been least affected. Ladies and gentlemen! As the most serious minus, I consider the label gap associated with the creation of own pension funds. On the one hand, you say big that you want to create pension investment funds now – but in my opinion only the advertising of large banks’ investment companies – you can actually not start very much with the pension investment funds, because the corresponding tax incentive in the income tax law is missing, it fails; You say you want to settle this in 2000 or sometime. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is an eye-catching. In my view, this is a real proof that the government does not want to deal in any way with the third pillar of a three-pillar model, namely self-sufficiency. She prefers to continue as before: a little pension reform, but not a proper one. The summit, however, is, as has been said, that you make a clear statement of intent for the year 2000 and also incorporate it into the law. Instead of creating clear and comprehensible laws in the field of Austrian finance, Federal Minister Edlinger and State Secretary Ruttenstorfer prefer to have a bank-friendly law passed after another. Mr State Secretary! I won't be able to persuade you to have a course correction. But please don't expect us to agree to freedom of sighting and labeling!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19285	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Merchant. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! There is a novel to the Investment Fund Act, and this novelle is to be welcomed in principle. There are many new possibilities in this Investment Fund Act, which are very positive: for example, the possibility that revenue will always be charged automatically, for example, the possibility of funding being created, or, for example, the possibility of simplification in the pooling of individual funds. It is also important that, for example, funds that only carry out non-male-proof claims can also be considered and purchased as a veritable investment. This law involves the creation of pension investment funds. These are generally positive and will certainly be a good instrument in the future. In these pension funds, income is automatically taken into account without interruption. The general rules on investment funds in the Investment Fund Act are added to additional investment rules, for example those that can be charged at a maximum of 50 percent abroad or that at least 30 percent in shares or similar products and at least 30 percent in cash bonds, bonds and the like must be charged. However, there are also problems with the pension funds. These refer in particular to the question of self-employment by the person buying a pension investment fund. This includes self-binding in the form of disbursement because it must last over 20 years and because it can only start when a pension is started or when the person who has signed a pension investment fund is 65 years old. In this case, the payment period would therefore last until the age of 85. There is also the possibility of opting for a pension insurance scheme, and it is also a requirement that, if you do not take advantage of either of the two possibilities and allow this fund to be paid out, you will have to pay a five percent withdrawal fee. However, the self - commitment of buying this paper would have to be counter-valued. But this equivalent is in fact still missing because the whole construction builds on the fact that there will eventually be a tax advantage. As long as this tax advantage does not exist, the self-binding effect associated with it is not justified in any way. There is therefore an amendment tabled by us, according to which the 5 per cent withdrawal fee is to be introduced only in 2000. This would remove an important point of concern and problems that I have discussed. However, the other self-binding effects remain, and there is no counter-performance to them at present. I therefore add that, as long as there is no associated tax advantage, we will certainly not recommend buying such a pension investment fund in consumer advice. Because you enter into ties that stand without consideration. That is an essential point. This is not a retroactive one, but a good instrument in wise terms if there is to be such a return in the form of a corresponding tax advantage. However, I must add one thing to the tax advantage: If we already have problems with financing the first pillar, we will have to ask ourselves the question: Where do we even make the money to treat this third pillar in a tax-privileged way? [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You do not make a total reform, but just a little bit everywhere!]] The last point – the light already shows the end of my speaking time; this point is very important from the waiting of consumer protection: The Government template contains a provision which would have significantly reduced the information content of the prospectus. That is why I am now introducing an amendment which will also be distributed in the hall. It provides, in particular, that there is no thinning of information in the prospectus, but that it is necessary, as in the past, to include all information and to prohibit references – for example, to annual reports, to statutory provisions et cetera. I believe that the adoption of this amendment is necessary in the interests of consumer protection. It also appears to be in the interests of the economy, because consumer confidence is always the prerequisite for the functioning of such instruments. In this sense, I ask for the adoption of the amendment tabled by Mr Kaufmann and others, which will still be distributed in the hall. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19346	This application is sufficiently supported. It has been explained in its basic guidelines, will be distributed in the hall, will be negotiated and will then be voted. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19404	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19425	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Firlinger on a point. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But only in one!]] It would rather take into account the importance of this matter if we did not discuss this important area after 13 hours of tiring debate here in the House. I agree with you in this. However, this is the only point of agreement, Mr Firlinger, as you have rightly advised. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I thought that, but don't bother me!]] I'd like to make it very brief: My group agrees with this important liberalisation step – and I would like to call it now – in the area, because we are continuing a whole chain of liberalisation in economic and financial policy, from the trade regulation to the law of working time to a number of financial laws. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Good for the banks, colleague stupid!]] I think that this liberalisation step will also open up new forms of funds – taking account of market developments – and that this is necessary because we can only prevent investment-seeking capital from moving to foreign investment companies. The potential involved has already been raised by Mr Firlinger. Second point: I think that the new pension funds are particularly important. I agree with my previous speaker. The merchant agrees that the real test for the pension investment funds will not come until we have accompanied up with appropriate fiscal measures. It would also be better for me – I say that quite openly – if we could put these incentives right now. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Then you agree with me in a second point!]] I admit, however, that we have so many wishes, especially in fiscal policy, that we have - rightly, I think - decided to make a major tax reform in 2000 and not in detail every few months here in this House. This has to be a big throw, Mr Firlinger, and not... [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But you can start once!]] This is what we are doing with the family tax reform, Mr President. There comes for you the moment of truth – believe me that – where you will agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the question of tax reform is not only a question of how far we are prepared to promote, in our opinion, the regulatory objective of self-sufficiency in accordance with our own rules and to use the tax reform to do so, but also, in the course of the tax reform, Mr State Secretary, we have already discussed this in the financial committee, we must consider a reconception of the taxation of the profits of substances. With this innovation, we are taking a first step towards reducing the tax burden on the profits of substances on the one hand; on the other hand, this undoubtedly includes a comprehensive reconception in the course of the tax reform 2000. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Who will not come then!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, this is certainly only the first important part-step; a second, fiscal, will follow, Mr Firlinger. It is the political will of the majority here in the House that we also offer appropriate incentives in this area with tax policy measures, so that we create appropriate framework conditions for private pension provision, especially in the area of investment-seeking capital, in particular where the long-term value-added asset is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19535	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19557	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! No question: Even at a later hour, we can pass important laws – the Investment Fund Act is an important law. It is important for the Vienna financial centre, and it is hoped that it has been decided and adopted in time to ensure the competitiveness of the Vienna financial centre in a particularly after 1. January 1999 strengthened – this is to be expected – the competitive situation to give back wind. Since the Committee's deliberations, I have had many discussions with experts and relevant experts who should be familiar with investment funds in particular, or we should say better: we also use the Investment Fund Act. And my criticism, Mr State Secretary, has not been weakened to this day, but has become more vehement. I would like to try again to justify this. Mr Kaufmann and Mr Stumpfully say that the Investment Fund Act is not complete because of the lack of tax incentives. The Secretary of State has repeatedly stressed in the Committee and the Federal Minister that the question of the tax advantage of pension funds for tax reform 2000 should be dealt with, but from today's point of view, it is not possible to see whether, to what extent and to what extent, a tax advantage for pension investment funds can be implemented. If I read in the press releases of the last few days and in particular of tomorrow how large the range is about the potential that we may be able to withdraw from the budget in order to allow for a tax reform, and if I recall the cost of family tax reform alone is estimated to be lost, I wonder what will be left to support the pension investment funds. We assume, however, that a pension investment fund imposes on the saver or the investment fund signatory a restricted power by the legislator – by us – as a counter-service to a state contribution. For otherwise, it is probably not to be explained that this law – I would like to remind you once again – is normized in § 23: Only if the shareholder receives an own pension from a compulsory pension scheme or the shareholder the 65. A year of life has reached, a payment entitlement is possible without penalty. Ladies and gentlemen! What attitude is behind it? Do we not trust the citizens of this country to keep home with their money? Is it so as in patriarchal societies that one rationalizes the wife's household money and divides it into weekly portions because otherwise she could "estimate" it? What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? Do we have powerful citizens, or do we have those whom we must congratulate as legislators and to whom we must prescribe a certain behavior? One thing should be undisputed, Mr. Stumbled and Mr. Kaufmann: The authorisation of such steering measures shall be justified and required by the State if it makes a contribution to this effect. Because then he can say: I only give you the contribution under certain conditions. But if no contribution is made, it is an insolence to impose such a restriction on the citizen. That, Mr President, I am sorry, is unfortunately not to discuss God away either. Mr President. Does that mean that I have a limited speaking time? [[The speaker points to the flashing light]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19605	I have set up 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time for all speakers. But if you wanted to consume all the speaking time of your group for the rest of the day, you would have another 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19620	Thank you very much, Mr President, for calming me down. Mr. stupid, stay calm, it won't take so long. I should therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, to appreciate our arguments at least in a single point. I am now tabling an amendment which does not provide for anything other than the abolition of the restrictions on the power of disposal laid down in § 23. I can assure you, Mr President, that when these fiscal measures come, we will, with great conviction, reintroduce the same paragraphs in the same text. It is not credible, however, Mr President, and Mr Kaufmann, when you go out here and say: Yes, we know it's not complete, and it's actually not round on this point, but we're doing it anyway. – Because the title Pension Investment Fund can also be derived if you say: Long-term savings and long-term payouts are foreseen, and this has the character of a pension investment fund. To this end, I withdraw my criticism, which has been voiced on labels, of: That's not it, Secretary of State. But I'm making a different criticism. They play shawls here, and they want the citizens – especially those who do not know about investment funds and do not deal with them; that is, I would like to say, even the majority here in the house, but above all a overwhelming majority of the artists are advised consumers, who are freelancers and hopefully others, and they will not deal with them – a bit of a prelude that is not really inside. It is a question of consumer protection. Even if we go here and say that the citizen is self-responsible, since he can read it and does not need to draw it, it is still unacceptable for Parliament to make such a temptation to follow a trend, to be encouraged, and in doing so, in my view, it is a deception. I therefore make the following request from Mr Haselsteiner and his partners. [[Quoted print version removed]] These are those provisions which suspend a restrictive decision-making power of the investment fund-signatories for lack of fiscal support. I hope you can agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19697	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19745	Mr President. Dear friend Haselsteiner! I am only speaking because, you will be satisfied with my decision, my personal decision-making on this law has not been easy. I will agree because I believe that this law is a signal that the legislator will become active in the field of investment fund legislation and will be heading in the direction. I could make even more criticism than you articulated it. For example, I do not like the distortion of competition vis-à-vis foreign investment funds. I also do not like the fact that the citizen is 65 years old. Birthday does not give the option of how he organizes his pension. For what a thirty-year-old knows, what about his 65. Is it going to be a birthday? We are living in a breathtakingly rapidly changing time so that he cannot know. And now we're going to tell him what to do in 35 years? In-depth discussions would lead to too much, for it is not possible to explain the whole problem in 3 or 5 minutes. I repeat that I agree, especially because I believe that it is a step in the right direction. It must be pointed out that the legislator wants to provide consumer protection in the face of the booming market. We must imagine the figures of this development: Within six years, the volume has evolved from 150 billion to 600 billion! One thing I miss, but I already have a commitment from the Secretary of State: What is in my heart next to the pension funds and the improvement that has already been criticised is a real estate fund law. A real estate fund law, such as that already exists in Germany, is urgently necessary. Does anyone really believe that real estate funds can be properly handled via the stock exchange? - Not at all. We need such a thing because there is also the possibility of choice. Why should someone have only one instrument available and not be able to benefit from the other? Again: There was much to be said about this; I only briefly outlined it. I think it's a signal. The legislator says that he wants to proceed in this direction. I urgently expect – and I did not speak to Mr Ruttenstorfer until Monday – that we will be dealing with a real estate fund law this year. The subject of tax favors and all the related – whether it is a ponization in this case and so on – can only be discussed – here I am your opinion – if you know what the investor is willing to offer to the state and the legislator. As long as we don't know whether we offer anything at all and in what form, you can't talk about this topic for so long. Once again: a signal effect in the right direction, but many outstanding improvements, especially in connection with the addition to a real estate fund law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19793	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19814	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing and adopting this Investment Fund Act today, and some previous speakers have pointed out a disadvantage that I too have been pressing: that we are not at the same time also setting up and standardising the tax advantage. We agree with this 100% because we believe that this will only create the essential incentive to invest in such pension funds. This is perfectly clear, and I cannot imagine that, if someone is well advised, anyone would invest in such a pension investment fund in the face of all the disadvantages and responsibilities that it entails, without at the same time making tax concessions. That is, before the next tax reform comes into force, there will undoubtedly be no boom for this. We must also say that to everyone who wants to invest there. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This will be a boomerang!]] But it is nevertheless an enormous opportunity that will be opened up for the future. We must note that some 93 per cent of the total pension provision in Austria is currently in the legal field, about 4 per cent for occupational pension provision and only the remaining 3 per cent for private pension provision. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The sum could grow to 20 billion schilling!]] Mr Firlinger, we know that there will undoubtedly be a great increase in this area over the next few years and decades. But it will only happen if we believe in it in good time – and that is why we have included an appropriate provision in this law – by means of the tax advantage in 2000 to ensure that the Pension Investment Fund is an attractive new construction. In that sense, we agree with the People's Party because we believe that the second part – the tax advantage – will follow by the year 2000.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19878	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We therefore come to the vote in connection with the draft law in 995 of the Supplements. There are amendments tabled by the honourable Member. Kaufmann and Dr. Stummvoll on the one hand and Dr. Haselsteiner on the other. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Kaufmann, Dr. Stummvoll, and comrades have an amendment concerning Z. 5 – This is § 6 para. 1 – introduced. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign in this regard. – This is decided by a majority. In addition, representatives of Dr. Hazelsteiner and comrades have the deletion of § 23g in Z. 22 requested. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I leave § 23g in Z. 22 as part of the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr. Hazelsteiner and comrades, who will refer to the deletion of § 49 para. 7 in Z. 38,.............................................................................................................................................................. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign in this regard. – This request did not find the majority. He is therefore rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Kaufmann, Dr. Stummvoll, and comrades submitted an amendment concerning the Z. 38. I should like to ask that those Members of the House who stand up for it give a positive sign. This request was adopted by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it give a sign in this regard. – This is decided by a majority. That concludes the second reading, and we shall come to the third reading immediately. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading give a sign of this. – I notice: The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (899 of the Supplements): Internal Agreement between the representatives of the Member States meeting within the Council on the financing and management of Community aid under the second financial protocol to the fourth ACP-EC Convention and declarations (992 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19968	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. Mr Schreiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The clock is set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e19995	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Col. Dummful, to have the Investment Fund Act It means: Although we decide on this law today, in 2000, when the big tax reform comes, financing will be ensured. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I would like to make a suggestion: Reduce today's contribution to the eighth European Development Fund of 4.7 billion schilling, which we decide today – probably with your vote – to the level of contributions from other Member States that joined the EU in 1995 too! Austria pays 340 million ECU, Finland pays only 190 million ECU, Portugal pays 125 million ECU, Ireland 80 million ECU, Denmark 275 million ECU. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: They joined in 1995 too?]] No, no, no, Others did not let themselves be drawn over the table as Austria did on the 1st. In June 1995 at the Council meeting, which we have pledged totalling 340 million ECU. That is exactly 4.7 billion schilling, Mr President. For example, this would have been a contribution that we urgently needed for the Austrian budget! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we had such funding for the Investment Fund Act, you wouldn't have to say: We must wait for the year 2000 tax reform, then we can really implement a law that we now decide, because it will not be adopted until then. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. If I look at the criticisms of this sixth and seventh European Development Funds in the European Community's Official Journal of the European Communities by the Court of Auditors, I am really sorry. It says that, although the greatest efforts have been made, the criteria for assessing the offers and for disbursing the funds could not be verified, unfortunately everything was so opaque, it could not be systematically reviewed, and so on and so on. This applies to the sixth and seventh Funds, and it will be pretty similar in the eighth. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I do not assume that this criticism is really taken seriously. I'll tell you what it really is about: We invest money in so-called Community initiatives, although in the Austrian State budget we would urgently need this money to be able to finance a tax reform on the part of expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In what time?]] At the time, Mr President, I am stupid in which I am now speaking, in exactly five minutes, the entire EU pays Spain from the Agricultural Fund, from the Social Fund, from the Structural Funds and from the Cohesion Fund 725 000 S! 725 000 S are paid every five minutes, i.e. in the time I have spoken now! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You're talking too long!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. We have to ask ourselves whether the sums we put into these so-called Community initiatives are really justified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This begins with these four funds, which ends with the eighth European Development Fund and with many, many initiatives that we invest in the so-called multilateral development aid, where we have a participation of 0.2 percent, no voting rights and no chairman in any body. We pay the money without being able to really participate! That, Mr President, is really not the right way to deal with the taxpayers of the citizens of this country, which we say: We are now adopting a law, but we can only finance it in 2000, because then perhaps we are making a tax reform that warrants us to adopt this law today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I hope that you will understand that our group, which supports the fact that there is a need to reject this law in terms of economy in the administration, in the enforcement of laws and within the European Community.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20094	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20123	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am going to take positions in the very short term – these are positions and not a presentation of the Austrian line in this context – by Mr Schreiner. Mr Schreiner! Especially in the area of the Development Fund, Austria, with Mr Ambassador Dr. Hamburger Deputy Director-General. In view of this, I must say: If only we would be as "impact" everywhere as in this area in the European Union! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second point, Mr Schreiner: As you may have found when studying the situation in the European Union, our overall share of the budget is about 2.6 percent, including that of the European Development Bank. This means that the rate of approximately 2.6 percent is also applied in this area. This is not an exception, it is the rule for Austria, and therefore we are not among the disproportionate numbers within the European Union. If you have read the documents, you could certainly find that there are a number of other countries that are significantly more paying in. Therefore, it cannot be said that Austria is doing more than it should do in this area, but we are doing exactly what we have to do – no more and no less. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Thank you for the follow-up instruction you give!]] It is not the first time we have to do this, Mr President. You have also heard of the fact that you have had to teach the colleague Schreiner after all! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Honorary!]] – Of course, especially at this time of day! The third point to be mentioned, Mr Schreiner, is that, although Austrian bilateral development cooperation is of high quality, it is not so great from the financial point of view that we have now fallen below the OECD average. We argue, among other things, that we are also making an additional contribution in the field of multilateral matters through the European Union. This contribution seems to me to be useful as a joint action of the European Union, because the Lomé agreements and the specific relationship with the ACP countries are not only being developed but also a political dialogue which is of great importance for the development of a common foreign and security policy of the European Union. This item on the agenda should also be discussed as follows: First: How can we improve the quality of existing Lomé 5 contracts? – In addition, there is an Austrian position, which I consider very useful. Secondly, How can we ensure that these budget resources, which are distributed across the various Lomé pots, are even more subject to qualitative objectives, such as poverty reduction? And thirdly, Mr Schreiner, it could be discussed whether only the former colonies of individual Member States of the European Union should receive funds, or whether even all developing countries, which are among the poorest, namely the least developed countries, should receive money. Mr Schreiner! There could have been a wide range of qualitative suggestions on your part! However, they have not taken advantage of this new opportunity. I'm really sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20186	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not required on the part of the reporting. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with declarations in 899 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this approval to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The majority of the authorisation was granted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 Federal Constitutional Act that the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions of the State Treaty must be made public consultation during the hours of office in the Federal Ministry of Finance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this declaration mode to a sign. – That too is the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. 24. Point Report by the Financial Committee on amendment 496/A (E) by Mr Mag. Doris Kammerlander and comrades on the extension of childcare facilities (1000 of supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20250	We're coming to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. Mrs Schaffenrath has spoken. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have a remaining speaking time of 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing here at first reading a motion for a resolution by the Greens on the extension of childcare facilities. The Liberals will support this demand. This is an Article 15a Treaty with the countries in order to promote the development of childcare facilities in the countries. If I remember correctly, that was already a call from Minister of Women Dohnal a few years ago. Now the SPÖ could start again! The fact is that in the individual countries - I can name Tyrol as a negative example - the expansion of care facilities is very, very sluggish, that there is still a drastic under-supply of appropriate facilities for children under the age of three throughout Austria and that all day care is far from sufficient. Now we have this 600 million schilling for the childcare facilities, so to speak, in view of the last savings packages, but this is just a drop on the hot stone. We need ten times as many places as this 600 million schilling can eventually be set up. I therefore believe that we should make every further consideration of how we can achieve comprehensive childcare in Austria. The public hand will at least be unable to do so in foreseeable time and at the required speed. We should therefore consider what conditions need to be created for privately organised groups of children and private kindergartens, which are proven to be more flexible and cost-effective. I believe that these private organizations should also have fair opportunities in this area, since this would definitely have an impact on the benefit of children. We should also consider supporting farm kindergartens. If a child can be paid for in the Bundeskanzleramt's operational kindergarten 4 000 s per month, then consider how much support could be given to the establishment of farm kindergartens as a whole! This could be done by increasing labour costs for skilled care workers as well as by increasing the availability of necessary investments. I mean, it is really high in time – and I say that especially in the direction of SPÖ – that ideological barriers are being reduced when it comes to the tax deductibility of services in the private sector. I believe that this ambiguity is also an essential prerequisite for the initiation and support of private organisations. In addition, additional jobs could be created in this way; Workers could come out of the shadow economy. There are many announcements, promises and assurances of all parties in this area. Especially the extension of childcare facilities is an essential point of women's desire, and therefore we should all work together to implement this point as quickly as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20332	Mrs Dr Mertel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20355	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the words "Undisputed is" the reason for the Greens' request begins in the report of the Financial Committee. However, it is also undisputed that a large number of childcare places are among the central concerns of the families, the mothers, the fathers, the children. And it is also undisputed that it was – and will continue to be – the Social Democrats, who have driven and driven forward the rapid expansion of childcare places, because we know that Austria needs to be remedied internationally. It is also undisputed that the Federal Government has established in its labour agreement that for children of all ages, qualified institutions with appropriate opening hours, that is, all day and all year, are to be created with a view to achieving a better balance between work and family life. For this, ladies and gentlemen, 600 million schillings were made available by the federal government in 1997 which were to be doubled by the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I should like to present a report: ==References== In January 1998, almost 514 million Schillings were invested in the 600 million Schillings of the federal government, creating 16 560 additional childcare places throughout Austria. – So much, Mrs Schaffenrath, for a fresh start! We know from recent studies that 85 percent of women between the ages of 18 and 30 have the desire to start a family. But we also know that they want to put a job and a household under a hat. In the interests of women, therefore, the establishment of childcare facilities is essential. We believe that qualified childcare serves not only to relieve working parents, mothers and fathers, but also to carry out the very important educational task of social learning by providing the ability of living in the community and the ability to work. We believe that the opening hours should be based on the needs of the professionals, but also, of course, on the needs of the children. So that means: They must be open all day and all year, even during the holiday season. In the case of opening hours, a number of federal states in particular have a lot to do with this. Because currently only 54 percent of all kindergartens are open all day in the federal states, 23 percent are closed over lunch, and 23 percent are only offering half-day care. While 93 percent of kindergartens are open all day in Vienna, for example in Tyrol only 4.9% of kindergartens are open all day and without lunch breaks. I would like to stress here that the development of childcare places also provides incentives for the labour market, namely to create qualified jobs for women. We are therefore also committed to ensuring that the care staff, as well as the day's mothers, are well-trained and, of course, protected by labour law and social law. This also concerns private kindergartens, Mrs Schaffenrath! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another note on tax deductibility of care costs. The question arises who can then put these expenses off. – Retirement can only be made by those who deserve a little more. In the current proposal of the Social Democrats for the reform of family support, we have also planned another 600 million schilling for childcare facilities. I am pleased to have received signals of approval from the coalition partner in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to mention that, of course, my group supports Mr Prammer's proposal to create a federal framework law on childcare, which aims at ensuring a uniform standard throughout the country without compromising regional responsibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20422	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20443	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. If one has followed the debates this day – at the latest since the urgent question – one should actually be of the opinion that you will all agree, especially the Socialist Group. After what the Chancellor has said to the entire Federal Government and the Coalition, you should all agree. For he has not only said today that this is a priority which the Federal Government of course sets out, but he has also said that 600 million schilling is being made available for it. - Yes, then! If, anyway, 600 million of the 600 million shillings estimated and consumed last year are made available, what will prevent you from accepting our request? You may have missed this knowledge at the Committee meeting, because it was obviously a new message today. But then you might very well be able to agree to this request in plenary! Otherwise, if the chancellor finds out in the afternoon that this is a priority, and announces that an additional 600 million schilling will be spent on it: Why vote You do not agree to this request then? There is no explanation for this at all! Mrs Mertel! Your speech really sounds like a creed when you say: We were, are and will always be those who have driven or driven forward the rapid expansion of childcare places. – However, that does not agree with reality! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: In what points does that not correspond to reality?]] But it probably has faith in itself in such a way that they are always based only on good faith and not on the real state! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What is reality, you determine?]] The real situation is still – as you have said in your speech – that child care facilities are missing, especially in western federal states, that child care facilities are missing for the zero to three years old and that child care facilities are missing all day long. We know all that! Look at your own union newspaper! In the last number a double page was dedicated to this topic. Read this! In the last, brand new number of your union newspaper of this week, the careers or non-carriers of women are described. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does this have to do with childcare facilities?]] Two cases are mentioned. A woman who worked in a leading position comes back from the karenz and no longer finds the entrance. It is precisely described that she does not find a child care facility and therefore has to leave the profession for a short time or a long time. Second case: A woman – also with several children – gets back in. In this case, however, the grandmother can care for the children. That's why the woman can make a career, and she keeps getting up. A wonderful situation! Nothing describes the problem of what is lacking, better than the comparison of these two examples in your own house post, the trade union newspaper. So please: Why vote You're not too close? See: It is an eternal gwirk who is now in charge of it: the countries or the Federation? Of course, the countries are responsible, but the federal government should give motivation and create incentives! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The Federation gives 600 million!]] That was a good example, if it's only 600 million schilling and not one billion! The covenant should continue to do so! That is why our request, in accordance with Article 15 B-VG, is that the Federal Government and the Länder should contribute to a joint financing of at least 1 billion schilling annually. This was a bid of the then Federal Chancellor and SP candidate Vrannitzky from 1994. It is embarrassing enough that it lasted until 1997 until that was realized. Her Minister for Women said in a press interview in 1995 that an annual kindergarten billion would be nice, right and important. And today your current Federal Chancellor said: This is a priority, and we will continue to do so. – Then please agree! Show seriosity about a single point of women's desire! Get up and show yourself seriosity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You may, after the Chancellor has informed you today from there, agree to the request! You would remember your face once! That would pay off!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20536	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. – You have a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20557	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kammerlander, I am going to tell you why we have not been able to agree to your request. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: We didn't expect that either!]] This is a single point, and we could agree with everyone else. If you have heard the early news today, you may also have heard that the complaint is now being made that there are not enough childcare places for young children in Vienna and Lower Austria, because the reduction of the time of care has entered into force, which is completely new. – We liberals have been pointing this out for a long time! A surveyed chief also confirmed that there are no more places. But she said the following: The places are booked out, but the little children stay for only a short time, that is, not to give them all day care. This afternoon we heard the announcement of the Federal Chancellor Klima that another 600 million schilling is to be made available for childcare facilities. I believe that this is an admission of mistakes made in the investment of the first 600 million schillings! The fact that there is still need is undisputed. In reply to a question relating to the budgetary negotiations in question, the Federal Minister for Youth and Family said that a total of 509 public kindergartens were affected by the 624 requests for funding at the time. Four-fifths of the funds have flown to public kindergartens! However, we all know that public kindergartens are not so flexible in opening hours that public kindergartens are not suitable for children from zero to three years old, i.e. children of the baby age. Four-fifths of these funds have nevertheless flown into this area! In itself, this request by the Greens could have been approved. – I know the greens don’t care about it! But we do not agree with the point that we want institutional care for infants from zero to three years of age, although this does not correspond to the will of the Austrians. There are enough survey results which clearly and clearly show that Mr and Mrs Österreicher unisono believe that small children, children of the baby age if not already staying at home, should at least be included in family care. That is why it is sad that only 17 disbursements to day mothers have been made of the 624 requests for funding. There are still shortcomings. In this context, I would like to point out once again that a review of the child care check project is currently taking place. After I have been informed today, a raw report will be available in at the latest two months, which will then be published, depending on the will of the Federal Minister. I agree with the Greens that we still need to rethink in this area. But as one does and that one should not make the same old mistakes again, we would like to point out this particularly vehemently.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20599	The next speech is by Mrs Sonja Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20620	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Children are the expression of human creative creativity, and without children we become barbarians. That's what Hartmut von Hentig tells us. The focus on childcare, which I put in Parliament last year, was on seven rounds of discussions. I'd like to present you with some of these lights. Professor Zuleiner: More than ever, the family should be designed by the child, and as important and indispensable as family habitats for adults as the home of the soul becomes a counterweight to the threatening psychological homelessness and indispensable, the concept of the family should be used for those habitats where adults create a prosperous habitat for one or more children, characterized by stability and love. In our culture, children are disturbed. They interfere in the churches, in the businesses, at the many public events, they interfere with the life-design of fathers – these leave the children to women – but also with mothers: whether it be during the decoupling of women and motherhood, or simply because of the incompatibility of the family world and the working world. In this way, children are in danger of becoming involved in a social disincentive. We wanted to see that we were not taken care of ourselves in old age! It is therefore politically necessary to create the condition that allows mother and father to give the child sufficient time, attention and discussion. For this purpose, family and working world should be better coordinated than before – currently the family world is assigned to the working world – and new forms of life-time distribution and childcare could contribute to this. The human biologist Professor Seidler pointed out that after birth the cerebral brain of the child was still in a very immature The condition is that the most sensitive time of children is between zero and four years and that, accordingly, childcare must take account of these things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The adults too!]] We know about the development steps and cognitive stages of our little ones. We also know, however, that fear and stress conditions of our little ones in false childcare result in life-accompanied trauma. They must be shown in blood, urine, and saliva. We must therefore ensure that old-age, quality childcare is offered and that innovative and institutional childcare is forced from our side. I am very glad that our family minister has called for 600 million schillings a long time ago in order to guarantee further expansion and best offers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20668	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not required on the part of the reporting. I would ask you to take the places, because we are voting on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of the 1000 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. 25. Point Reimbursement of a proposal for the appointment of a member of the Constitutional Court
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20714	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. In agreement with the clubs I beat according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure for a debate. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This desire is accepted by a majority. We are immediately entering the debate. Mr Kostelka has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20751	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The members of the Constitutional Court are created and ordered in Austria – and this is a good thing – by the top bodies of our constitution: half of the Federal Government, half of the legislative bodies. This, as a French comparative constitutional study proves, is a sure indication that the independence of this court is guaranteed in Austria. We have put a lot of effort into this order. For the first time we have performed a hearing and we have heard and discussed with all 24 candidates who had notified after a public invitation to tender. In doing so, we were able to see a broad picture of highly recognized and significant qualifications, as well as a high level of commitment, which corresponds to this function. This public tender was aimed at moving as many as possible to apply. It should make it easier for the Constitutional Legislator, the National Council, to select this appointment and place it on a wider basis. To my regret, I must say that we have not succeeded in every respect. Unfortunately, only two women have reported. Ladies and gentlemen! We had to take all the criteria for the order into account when selecting. One of the criteria was that our Constitutional Court consists of a professional mix, a mixture of all professions in the field of legal science. The function to be ordered is one that has so far been taken over by a freelancer, a lawyer. Regrettably, no lawyer and no freelancer had reported for this position. That is why we have also looked around among the men and have found an offer of high legal qualifications on the one hand, but also a wide variety of professional experience, including a long-standing experience as a lawyer on the other. We have therefore decided for Dr Müller after having matured. He is an excellent, excellent lawyer, who was also a lawyer, judge and civil servant, and who, by the way, – this is another essential argument – will again establish a Connex between the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. He is a member of the Administrative Court and, if the House gives him the majority – my group will do so – will also belong to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very good choice, which I propose to you together with Mr Khol. I will vote on this proposal, and I will turn to your vote for Dr Müller. He is an independent, good and highly qualified lawyer. Give him your voice!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20794	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20815	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that today we have improved the procedure for drawing up electoral proposals and a proposal to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for a member of the Constitutional Court of Justice by one step again. I have already been to this House when there was a single proposal on which there was an open vote. Now we have a call, we have a hearing, and we have a secret choice. There are three constituencies. I must say that it was deeply satisfactory to carry out this hearing, because of the 24 candidates who were highly trained, excellent impressions and well-suited lawyers. I agree with my colleague, Mr Stoisits, for she spoke of the "quality of the election". In my opinion, all three personalities of the election proposals are excellent candidates. Colleague Kucsko-Stadlmayer is an excellent lawyer and already a replacement member of the Constitutional Court, Mr Raschauer is a top-class, excellent lawyer who has made a very good impression, and also – this is the proposal that I have finally decided on and presented in my club – Hofrat Müller has left a first-class impression in the hearing. As Members will decide in the secret election, they are left to vote, but I have proposed that they vote for Hofrat Müller. Why did I introduce him to my club? Firstly, I think that the career in the Court of Justice is something we should take into account. If someone has proved to be a replacement member, he or she should also have a chance to become a member in the event of the appropriateness. The second reason was that only the National Council and the Federal Council have the opportunity to propose candidates from the professional practice of the professions; the Federal Government cannot do so. It is therefore our concern that the professions – particularly lawyers – are always constantly represented in the Constitutional Court with a certain proportion. A lawyer has left, and I think that in his place now someone who has worked for twelve years in the bar and therefore has a professional professional experience. Dr. Müller is a replacement member, he comes from the professional profession of the lawyer, and he made an excellent impression in the hearing. So I too would like to promote the vote for Hofrat Müller on behalf of all my colleagues. I would like to add one thing clearly: If a woman from the professions had applied, I believe that my support would probably have been for the woman, just as I had recently advertised here for Kucsko-Stadlmayer when we also elected her. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Wabl]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's an important decision we make here. The choice is an excellent lawyer and two excellent lawyers. Nevertheless, I suggest that Dr. Müller vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20864	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e20886	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not a year ago, after a spectacular suicide, the Federal Chancellor has compiled a catalogue of how to occupy objectively posts and in the future the top positions of this republic will objectively occupy with suitable candidates. Who today takes the evening edition of tomorrow's "Kurier" to hand can read the following: Mr Khol came to his ÖVP club at the club and was delighted to say: "Peter Kostelka just called me, the SPÖ drops Matzka." – End of the quote. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the objective item awarding! Mr Khol has now said that all the candidates are imaginable; he has forgotten to mention Mr Matzka. Ladies and gentlemen! The background to this is a very bad post chess player who has been playing here for weeks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's been in the media for weeks. At first, Mrs. Dr. Kucsko-Stadlmayer is in conversation because the SPÖ originally forced the esteemed woman, the highest judge – she is still in replacement function at present. This proposal, contrary to what Mr Khol has said with whispering tone, does not at all agree with the Austrian People's Party. As a result, it is traded, and then you agree on the following deal: The Austrian People's Party – even today this comes out of the "Kurier" – receives... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Don't believe the "Kurier" everything!]] Please? – This is your party body, your people are inside, and they will probably know what you have negotiated with the SPÖ within the framework of the Unity Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why doesn't Haider answer the "Kurier" questions?]] The negotiations will take place: The ÖVP receives Vice-Presidents at the Constitutional Court in the succession of the Piska – that is to say, Dr. Korinek is to become Vice-President there – and at the same time the ÖVP is assured by the Socialists that Mr. Korinek will come to the train later in the successor of President Adamovich in the Constitutional Court, but only in five years. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Were you there?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] Not me, Mr Fischer, you have to say that. That is what you have to say to Mr Khol, because it was he who gave his group this promise to the proposal you are making today. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how the deal went: In five years' time, Mr Korinek will be President, knowing that the SPÖ has already promised the President to Mr Holzinger, who is also close to the SPÖ. That's the post-achter who's playing here! That's how things go! Now you don't quite agree who promised Andreas Khol something. In any case, he has reported it to his club in this way and has led him to vote today, not Cver, not ÖVPler, but a socialist candidate. This is the background, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kröll: The other newspapers write differently!]] That is why this so-called objective procedure was a farce! Nothing was determined there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was a farce! It was – to speak with the words of a prominent ÖVPler – an unworthy show and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you have brought honorary lawyers, top judges of this country for short statements. They were allowed to answer questions for five minutes, and then they were sent out to the door again. That's how the hearing has taken place, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is no wonder that the SPÖ originally wanted to force the head of the section Matzka, who is close to it, of course. Now suddenly one pretends to have been the best – as a result of a sensational hearing – Mr Müller. – Please don't hesitate, ladies and gentlemen! At first it would have been Kucsko-Stadlmayer, then it should have been Matzka who would have liked to have accommodated a strong lobby – led by Mr. former Minister of the Interior Dr. Löschnak – because he no longer holds it in the Ministry of the Interior and wants to leave. We have now agreed to deal with the post-chacher on Mr Müller and to elect him today so that the ÖVP can come to the position of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court. You use the Constitutional Court for your shameless post games! They have learned nothing to do with it, clean and smooth nothing learned from the bad events of the past! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, we want to give some in your ranks – there are still a few Cvers, whose federal brotherly heart could beat for one of the best qualified, namely for Dr. Bernhard Raschauer – today an opportunity to choose Dr. Raschauer. He certainly came out of the hearing as one of the best, but otherwise – because of his truly remarkable list of references or publications – he would be best suited for the function as a judge of the Constitutional Court. They thus have the opportunity to repeat what was possible even under Erhard Busek, namely that in the occupation of one of the highest positions in that Republic, a candidate actually comes about against the coalition agreement and against the mauschael. Remember what was possible at the Court of Auditors under Erhard Busek! Get a heart, you have a little courage today, and cross the post-chackers of the two clubmen Kostelka and Khol!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21011	Mr Dr Kier has now come to speak. – Mr deputies, your club still has a 12 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21032	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot, and it is not easy to stay quiet from this point of view after such a hearing, when you find yourself in a political journey of time: in a political journey of time, in which we now understand what is already documented in the report as a result. Now maybe you'd like to call me: This is a question of journalism that drives its flowers! But I'm telling you: These journalistic achievements are only possible if the editors can rely on secure information. No editor can invent something so precise that it is still almost identical in several newspapers. I do not hide that it is annoyed when one is, so to speak, so provoked. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is also a desavowing of all 24 candidates, if they are practically informed about the media six or seven hours before the vote takes place – depending on the respective editorial conclusion – of how the secret vote of this House will proceed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] This is inconvenient and not a good service at the supreme institution, not a good service at the Constitutional Court, nor a good service to the mandaters of this House, because they are finally presented here that there is a very precise club force in individual clubs, which even in secret votes acts so precisely that, without blaming, journalists can be announced a result already hours before. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In particular, this has not deserved the very well-qualified candidate of your election – that is addressed to the government parties – but it has not deserved anyone else of the candidates. Although we have to make this journey of time pass over us, here we make a proposal that we have considered in a mature way after the hearing. From this point of view, we propose that Mrs. Dr. Gabriele Kucko-Stadlmayer be chosen for this function. We ask all Members of this House to make a very personal decision in this election and not to be guided by the fact that club members – for whatever reason – have reached an agreement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For if we come to the point that agreements by top political officials can predetermine election behaviour in secret elections, then this is very, very bad. Mr Kostelka! If you think that a professional mix is necessary, I agree with you. If you think there are criteria, I agree with you. But show me a job in the laws we are carrying out today when we take this choice, which requires that in a very specific case, now in the case of the post-retirement of a retired former lawyer, one must be re-occupied with a lawyer or a lawyer. This may be a use in your eyes, but a use that is apparently a stoned one. For we know that after-sales are necessary again and again and that, if the Constitutional Court were not to be re-occupied with a lawyer or a lawyer, it would not be necessary for it to become necessary, which would be the number of lawyers in that body. But he is in need of what the number of women in this body is going to be – without any doubt! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] If I am faced with the torment of the election, to choose from a number of almost equally qualified individuals, but in their spectrum of course, different individuals, and to add a parameter in addition, you, Mr Kostelka and Mr. Kohl, the lawyer, are the woman. I'm telling you that very clearly! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] That Mrs. Dr. Kucsko-Stadlmayer is already a replacement member, is not a reason to choose it, but quite the contrary: That is a good reason – especially when you know that it has actually been used in this property – to choose it. That Dr. Müller Hofrat is at the Administrative Court and also a replacement member of the Constitutional Court is no reason not to vote for him, but it does not weigh enough against the candidate Kucsko-Stadlmayer. They only present all your arguments to surprise you that you have agreed on a political solution that does not correspond to the spirit of the Constitutional Court: here in a free, secret choice, to elect the best possible candidate or the best possible candidate. This does not correspond to that, and the public announcement does not at all correspond to that. I mean, if we don't stop these political unsittings, then it'll permanently shake confidence in our entire rule of law. Mr Khol! I know you don't hear that. You hate to hear it because you know it's in the core. But because you care about any party reasons, you do something that you would probably do differently if you didn't have to pay attention to these party reasons. This is a kind of set-up that is dangerous, because it leads to a shift in values. The purpose-medium relationship is disturbed, and the conscience and personal decision are less important than the cadre obedience. It is also a pity if a member of the Constitutional Court is accused of having been burdened as a member by an unholy pact, by a bullet cast in an unholy pact, free-guard-like. That's not good. I therefore ask all Members of this House to consider once again: Do we have a number of proposals which are almost equivalent from quality? – I do involve Professor Raschauer in these considerations, because he has also made an excellent impression on me. Nevertheless, in our proposal we have decided in doubt for the woman, but not in the sense that she is an alibrarian. Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol. "If only a lawyer had applied," you said. Wouldn't the qualification have been important? Would it be enough for you to be a lawyer? Just so she meets the formal requirements? - That's not enough. If she were just an alibi woman, we would not have decided to propose to Mrs. Professor Kucsko-Stadlmayer. But we think they are equal to the other candidates who have already been proposed today, and there you can choose. Therefore, I would ask you to consider again whether it would also be better for the decision-making quality of this body, even if a better balance of personal views, which each lawyer also carries in addition to his professional qualifications, would be involved. I have had the experience that in bodies with a relatively higher proportion of women, some discussions are just different – believe me! – in a pleasant, positive sense. It is precisely a supreme court, a court of public law which speaks the last right, that can never be well balanced in its composition. That is why I ask for a vote for the Mrs. Professor Kucko-Stadlmayer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21103	Mr Wabl has reported on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21124	Mr President. This debate will discuss the election of a Constitutional Judge or a Constitutional Judge. Clearly, the preliminary talks and the agreements have clearly contradicted the spirit of democracy and the Constitution. I would ask you to interrupt a session so that these incidents can be discussed, in the spirit of what Mr Kier has now said: It is unbearable that a constitutional judge should be elected and that, in advance, it seems to have been concluded quite ordinary pacts among the parties, thus disavowing the secret election.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21158	Deputies! Your political criticism is quite legitimate. But this is not an opportunity to interrupt the session. We are therefore continuing in the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Wabl! You have to think of something better!]] The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! "The general demand for the corresponding representation of women in the legislative bodies, in the public service and in top positions of the private sector has been established over and over again, and it has gradually succeeded in taking women more into account. The signed Members consider that, in view of the examination activity of the Constitutional Court concerning the violation of the principle of equality, bringing women's socialisation experience into the legal process would be enriching. The Members who have been signed therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to propose to the President of the Constitutional Court for the representation of women in the Austrian Constitutional Court of Women at the next appointments." Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution by Dr Hlavac, Korosec, Dr Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades to the Federal Government at the time found the approval of all members of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, it has not yet been possible for you all to believe unanimously that, in the light of the examination of the infringement of the principle of equality, the introduction of female socialization experience in the Constitutional Court would be a major matter. So at the time, ladies and gentlemen, you all asked the Federal Government with a unanimous voice and together, at the next appointments – you clearly formulated this in the plural! – to propose to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany women to members of the Constitutional Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen – I am speaking to you above all now! - and colleagues! Do you have such a short memory that you no longer remember it? Ladies and gentlemen! I have known Mr. Hofrat Dr. Rudolf Müller since my very first days of study, and I appreciate Dr. Müller. At that time, he was perhaps even a conceptual or already a lawyer. I've known him for 20 years, and I know him as a highly qualified lawyer in all the functions he has, and in all the professions he has practiced. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I should like to point out that, particularly after the hearing, I have absolutely no doubt as to the highest qualification of Mr President-in-Office of the Court, Dr Müller, and that, if he is proposed and elected by you to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I do not doubt his abilities and his ability to judge in the sense of the population of Austria as a whole. However, of the 14 members of the Constitutional Court, including President and Vice-President, only two members are still women. Two out of 14, that is truly not a high percentage, which would be a special reputation for the Constitutional Court as a body, but only right for those who choose members of a Constitutional Court to make a respectful proposal for their posting! Ladies and gentlemen! I was – and now I want to go to Mr Mag. Stadler – like other colleagues, he also attended this hearing for six hours, and I was very impressed by this hearing and the idea of making it happen. We have, as Klubobmann Khol said, the pain of choice. That's really true! I was impressed by the level of qualification of many ladies and gentlemen, who presented themselves there and answered our questions – also beyond the circle of those who are proposed today. The fact is that the political groups have only the opportunity to propose one, because they can only choose one. I would like to stress this explicitly: Not only those three, Mrs. Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer, Dr. Müller and Dr. Raschauer, seemed highly qualified to me, but also numerous other applicants. Dr. Kostelka! If not only the ladies of SPÖ and ÖVP have a short memory, but above all you – because the proposal to appoint Mrs. Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer as replacement member of the Constitutional Court – has also been due to your initiative at the time – and if you now call the qualification of Professor Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer excellent, but if not as good as that of a man, then I am a little surprised! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you once again of your own demands to the Federal Government. It is obviously easy for Members to make a request to someone else and then, as it were, not to be found except to be fulfilled, whether or not it is being fulfilled. However, when it comes to their own responsibility, you're afraid of it! Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, like my previous speakers, I am now advocating the voice for those candidates who seemed to us to be the most qualified in the circle of many highly qualified and who could even compensate this manko, namely the fact that the representation of women is still so modest. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as my contribution to this debate today is concerned. – Mr Dr. Kostelka has also produced Konnexe and reflected on whether a previous replacement member already brings in a special qualification. In addition, Mrs. Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer, as well as another female candidate, agree that they have experience at a high court and also on some other male candidates. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude with this and ask you: Think again! I do not want to narrow Mr Müller's qualifications in any way, but: It's time for women in the Constitutional Court! Remember this opportunity that we have and that we no longer have in the National Council for a very long time, because those who leave in the near future for reasons of age do not have the opportunity to be proposed or elected by this circle of people, but then others will be on the train again! Don't let this opportunity pass useless!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21279	Mr Krüger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr President, the time left for your group to speak will be 6 minutes, so I will set the clock at 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21300	Mr President. High house! Trust in law enforcement is one of the foundations of our rule of law. Of course, this confidence can only exist if there is confidence in the occupations of the judiciary. We have the principle of self-completion throughout the entire court in Austria, with the exception of the Constitutional Court. I admit that, for constitutional reasons, constitutional judges must be ordered, at least in part, by the government or by legislative bodies. However, there is a general system criticism: One should question whether the classification of the order, namely 50 percent of judges by the Federal Government and 50 percent of judges by the National Council, is really the yellow of the egg, i.e. the pluralist approach that the federal constitution gives us. The fact that the Federal Government chooses candidates out of its field is not implausible. In the National Council, the Constitutional Courts are appointed by the majority, and the majority is represented by those parties represented in the government. So it is really a doubling, and that this corresponds to pluralism, that is probably no one here will believe! It is therefore necessary to start with system criticism and demand that at least 50 percent be re-occupied either in the sense of self-completion or that there be a pluralistic occupation mechanism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been talking about trust in the law enforcement and the order procedures. Mr Khol! On the other hand, an objective viewer of the hearing or even this debate cannot assume that you have complied with this confidence. And I'm going to tell you now why your argumentation is a mere schine argumentation. They say that only the law-making bodies are able to nominate constitutional judges from professional practice, from the practice of lawyers. I'll give you all right! But that was the only argument you could bring to the meeting for Dr. Müller. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, I brought three arguments: the hearing, the replacement member and the lawyer!]] If you say that this order is not to be terminated and you are to be ordered again from the state of the lawyers, i.e. a freelancer, you have to say clearly and unmistakably that your argument is not true if the person you argue for is no longer a lawyer since 1989 but a judge of the administrative court. That your argumentation is a mere skiina argumentation also proves your excuse when you say: If a lawyer had applied, of course she would have received the award. – That this argumentation is an expression of a merger is also clear! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For it cannot be enough that a person who comes from the bar and is female is the only person to have the prerequisites for this position in the Constitutional Court. You can't believe this argument yourself! On the other hand, I have the suspicion, Professor Khol, that Mrs. Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer was deliberately nominated as a distraction candidate, so that, in the end, one can agree on a candidate who is not entirely coloured in the wool but who is close to social democracy. I'd like to tell you something: Mrs Kuksco-Stadlmayer has probably cost her head that in her application documents she has spoken of party-political distance. Because, traditionally, "party political distance" causes suspicions to arise in social democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Professor Khol! They said it was very important to order a lawyer. I admit that not all the applicants have left the impression that one member of the Constitutional Court of Justice would expect, but one thing is certain – and I do not say this in conclusion for all the other lawyers who are reversing – that is, Professor Dr. Laurer, a practicing lawyer who has had a habilitation and is a professor at the University of Economics. So I come to the conclusion: Social democracy wanted to order a socialist. Matzka was too pronouncing to you, Dr. Khol. That's why you understood a compromise candidate. But please don't complete the Farce and don't deny this House by now reflecting that the fact of professional attorneyship has been argumentation for your choice. You can't believe that yourself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Please let your clubman – who literally meant: I'm telling you why I chose Dr. Müller! – not so much with the nose ring in here and lead to the vote!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21366	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. The speaking time you still have is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21387	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. This joint motion, which my colleague Stoisits has already read to you, also says: "In the event of the same qualification of several applicants, women should be given priority when appointing." The question arises, of course: Was this same qualification given or not? We have heard from those who were in the hearing – I was not in the hearing – that the candidates were excellent, and we have also heard that several candidates had been in question from the qualification. That alone can't have been it! However, according to many years of practice in observing this same qualification, it is always surprising that whenever it comes to the same qualification, there is still a small "additional qualification". Mr Kostelka! They called it: This time it was the "professional mix"! However, if you look more closely at the application from this point of view, you can see that this mix of careers had several candidates. So that can't be a reason! Mr Kostelka! The reason why a lawyer or lawyer was sought does not apply, for that was not the condition for this choice: The condition was a certain qualification, and if one takes seriously this request and decision taken by the National Council at the time, another condition was that in the event that there are equal qualifications to be preferred to women in the election. However, a lawyer or a lawyer was not mentioned in a decision or elsewhere. So this argument is not right! So it remains – as my previous speakers have said – the shale taste that it has been about something quite different. I don't want to know what it was about now. It is also legitimate for the majority in this House to make the decision. It is only annoyed, it is sad if the majority in this House decides against a decision which has also taken this majority in the House some time ago, because for some reason you are no longer in the Chamber and therefore you can no longer remember your own decisions and pass these decisions. This is particularly relevant in the light of the fact that, in the context of women's desire, we have now again discussed very often, in detail and for a long time, the anchoring of the actual equal rights in the federal constitution and we have found that it is not enough that the formal principle of equal treatment is enshrined. In view of the fact that the material law cannot be taken into account, Members of this House, at least in part, believe that a stronger anchorage must be made so that it cannot be done exactly what will happen now that the principle of effective equal treatment and equality can simply be overcome by a majority. Finally, I would like to say something – and that is what my previous speakers have already said: Not only that you ignore your own decision, not just that you do not assign women the same qualification, for otherwise you would have to and would choose them from the candidates rather than from the candidates: Rather, it is also really annoyed when it is already available in the newspapers, how it has been decided. So you make a secret vote on the Farce, you make a hearing that took place before, to the Farce, and you make a parliamentary process to the Farce, if you obviously give journalists such binding information hours before the vote and make such a binding statement that, as has already been said by several newspapers, journalists can call it " irrevocable" and not "probable" and put into pressure! The newspapers clearly state: The National Council voted and decided in a secret vote. I am most concerned about this, because it reminds me of a electoral process that is a long time ago. At that time it was about marked votes, now it is about declarations of guarantee concerning the electoral behaviour of freely elected mandaters. – I believe that this Parliament has not deserved this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21453	It is still Mr Magistrate's power. Barmüller. The remaining speaking time for you, honourable Member, is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21475	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add one more aspect to the discussion. They know that there was a very massive discussion in this House about the fact that there should also be a dissertation opinion in the field of the Constitutional Court. It will be essential that, if this instrument comes – which has already been promised, it has not yet been implemented – women also have a position within the Constitutional Court, so that they can not only express their individual opinions, but can also see how far it is meant by the equal treatment in Austria in the individual decisions or not. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the proportion of women there. That is why we also conclude that what has been agreed between the large political groups is, in fact, a primarily party-political agreement and that the decision has not been adopted on the basis of material criteria. I would also like to draw attention to what has already been said by Mrs Doris Kammerlander, which corresponds to my personal experience: If you're obvious Your agreements have been reached, and in your clubs – although there is no force of clubs of course – you have obviously been able to ensure that a sufficient majority is in favour of this proposal, then it is absolutely essential to say: A secret choice is actually no longer taking place in this case, because you already know the result before! I think that we all would be very suspicious if, in any secret election in any country or on any occasion, even before the electoral process has begun, we could already find out the newspapers, which person or party has been or has not been elected. In fact, that's not a secret choice anymore! Ladies and gentlemen! I have drawn my lessons from the vote in which I did not feel it so problematic that although it has not been made clear who voted, it is about... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You've been through a change of mind!]] Mrs Mertel! I apparently learned more from the situation at that time than you did! Mr President, Mr Fischer rightly chose a very restrictive procedure at the time by having the electoral process repeated. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is true that in this context we do not tolerate any deviations in any way in the direction of making the vote manifest! That's the correct procedure! [[Abg. Arbitrators: At the National Council election you know before that you will not become the strongest, and yet it is a secret choice!]] Member of the Arbitrator! If there seems to be opportunities in your political groups to ensure that your Members vote accordingly, so that you can tell the newspapers who you are going to vote hours before the vote begins, then a secret election will be disavowed! You should not now, because there is a party-political agreement and you therefore agree, pretend that it is in fact no problem if, although there have been all the time objective promises, we can now seem to be up to the second or third members, who will be elected where and how. We reject this, and we recommend: Think before it's too late! Because at the given time it may be important to be able to put on his own credibility. Learn to do so, just as I have learned to do! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21526	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. We shall now come to the vote, and I therefore ask you to take the seats. I now announce the terms of the election. Ladies and gentlemen! There are several constituencies. On the basis of a proposal from Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol, Mr Dr. Rudolf Müller, on the proposal of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades Mr. University Professor Dr. Bernhard Raschauer and on a proposal by Dr. Schmidt and Dr. Petrovic Ms. University Professor Dr. Gabriele Kuksco-Stadlmayer. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, within the meaning of § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes containing the name of another electable candidate. There is a desire, in accordance with business rules, to make the choice in election cells. That's why I'm doing this. The Parliamentary Directorate has prepared a vote paper containing the names of the proposed candidates and a box on the right, as well as an empty line, which also contains a box. The ballot shall be filled in in the way that a cross is to be made in the box parallel to the name of the candidate whose choice is to be made. In this way it is made clear which candidate is to be elected, unless another name is written on the election proposal. The individual members of this House will be called in alphabetical order. The vote will be delivered by Parliament officials prior to the entry of the electoral cell. I would like to begin by interrupting the sitting very briefly to prepare the vote. I would ask you to set up the constituencies. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 0.26 p.m. and resumed at 0.29 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21590	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. The election is now prepared. Therefore, I ask the two scribes to start the call of name. Mrs Reitsamer begins and will then be replaced by Mrs Applebeck.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21623	Hasn't anyone delivered his voice yet? – As far as I can see, they all did. The vote will end. I would ask the House staff to carry out the voting, under the supervision of the members of the House, and I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21657	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the interrupted session and call for attention to the announcement of the results of the elections. A total of 166 votes were cast, of which 161 were valid. Hievon was on Dr. Müller 87, on Dr. Raschauer 45 and on Dr. Kuksco-Stadlmayer 23 votes. 5 votes were cast for Dr. Hengstschäger and 1 vote for Dr. Matzka. The absolute majority of valid votes are 81. Thus, the proposal of the National Council for the appointment of a member of the Constitutional Court to Dr. Rudolf Müller. That was the result of the election. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-01-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00106_d7e21708	I would also like to say that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 672/A to 675/A. Questions 3522/J to 3546/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 22. January 1998, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The current session is closed.
