ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e2945	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 149. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 145. Meeting of 4. ==References====External links== The session was held in Parliament's management and without any objection. Mr Haidlmayr, Mr Ing. Langthaler, Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Schwimmer and colleague Wenitsch. Before we start the current hour, I welcome the President of the Council of Europe, Mrs Leni Fischer, who is taking part in this meeting today. [[General condolences.]] – The good cooperation with the Council of Europe is "notorically" – it does not need to be underlined. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e2988	Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour is today on the subject "No standstill in judicial policy" Dedicated. The Federal Minister for Justice is present and will then deliver a brief opinion on the subject. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Dr. Jarolim. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3033	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore chosen the issue of "No standstill in judicial policy" because there has been evidence in recent times that some important projects that we have been discussing for a long time – in some cases for years – could not now be taken into account in parliamentary activity. The problem is not so much – and I would like to say this at the outset – on the Committee on Justice, but on a fundamental difficulty. It is quite simply not possible, for example, in one case – in the case of the division; a law which is intended to serve the protection of victims – to obtain this law, this project in the Committee on Justice, because it was not foreseen by the coalition partner in the context of the preliminary discussions. I think we should talk about it. I think that all the projects – especially when they have reached a certain maturity – should be discussed here in the House because we are guilty of doing so if we take our work seriously. We should deal with these issues in a factual way and not assume that as much as possible has to be clarified in advance and that the debate here in the House has to be reduced to a minimum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is it about in the individual case? . There are currently two projects which are central to judicial policy in the In the meantime, there have also been central issues in the public debate, which, however, are not central points in the debate in this House for the reasons I mentioned earlier, and this is not acceptable in this form. One of these projects is the so-called disversion. This is one of the measures to be taken, in particular, to ensure a comprehensive implementation of the protection of victims. We have, in the past, adopted and adopted a number of provisions within the Committee on Justice, including legal amendments, which represent significant steps towards improving the position of victims in criminal cases. We have, however, the last step that would make it possible to give the judges who have to apply it on a daily basis a more efficient instrument into their hands until now. Therefore, the draft of the Diversion provides for a number of possibilities for judges to react differently to crimes other than that so far. I'll hold on to this. Within the framework of its monopoly of violence – only the State is entitled to apply violence – the State has the task of preventing criminal acts. At present, the judge facing a criminal act has two main options: the fine of money and the fine of liberty. The latter can be imposed both conditionally and necessarily. - And that's what it was. In addition, there is the possibility of so-called extrajudicial compensation, which is partly possible, in the context of attempts, also in adult criminal law. In all cases where the extrajudicial compensation has been applied up to now, it has led to significant improvements, firstly by reducing the criminality of the individual perpetrators, and secondly by improving the position of the victim. It should be taken into account that the victim has not only suffered a loss of wealth and not only suffers from physical pain, but also emotional, emotional pain. The latter is not at all addressed at this time. I would like to explain this on the basis of an example. In front of a guesthouse there is a shop – because of a futility. One beats the other down in the course of this round-up trade, which falls over, breaks the shoulder and labors on this pain for six months. It is currently true that the perpetrator is being sentenced, and the victim may get pain money at some point. - And that's what it was. The victim has, of course, also suffered an emotional damage that can manifest itself in various forms: for example, in anxiety, in dissatisfaction, or simply in an outrage that no one accepts him. In the future, if the victim wants to do so, there will be the possibility of establishing a contact between the victim and the perpetrator within the framework of which the perpetrator can show – I emphasize: only if the victim wants to do so! – that he is concerned that the victim is still suffering six months after such an incident. He should understand that what he has done, namely precipitation, is in no relation to the consequences of this action. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I think that will lead to a rethinking of the perpetrator, a change of consciousness. And there can be nothing better than to bring about a reduction in the crimes in the subconsciousness of the perpetrators. On the other hand, it is likely that the victim will be more satisfied than it is now because he sees the crime of the perpetrator. It is therefore necessary that we also implement these measures which are envisaged. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the measures in the context of the division – the out-of-court settlement and the other instruments that we give to the judges, which are carefully dealt with as the practice shows – are in reality the most efficient form of improving the situation of victims in the overall social context, but also the reduction of criminal acts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have to say that I am shaken and I wonder what this is to be done if, for example, I have to take the following items out of court for extrajudicial compensation, I quote: "As Minister of Justice Michalek and the Socialists plan him, there will certainly be no agreement from the ÖVP! The executive must be protected from such designs," he says here, "from the point of view." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you and ask you: Let us take the discussion on this, but let us not put it populist, so that there are no misunderstandings in the public that would ultimately only lead to arguments against a quality quantum leap of a law – arguments that are simply not correct! I think we owe it to ourselves that we do not allow populisms on this issue. – So much on the first point, on the issue of Diversion. Second point. We are in negotiations on the matrimonial and divorce law, which is controversially discussed in the public at large, which is in itself good, but it is discussed in a way that is controversial, which goes by the subject matter. What's this about? – It is essentially about the fact that family judges – i.e. those judges who are involved in divorces every day, childhood disputes et cetera – have shown a number of socially unreasonable cases, a series of abuses that should be stopped. In particular, the cases in which women are suddenly faced by divorce after a longer marriage, in which they have been very much involved – emotionally, financially, however – are suddenly faced with a situation through which they are in social need. In such cases, the current draft provides for measures that can be used in individual cases to prevent such social emergencies, including by means of maintenance payments in the event of indebtedness. I'm saying very briefly what it's all about. It may happen that, in the course of a longer marriage, a spouse refrains from her training, does not provide for further education, or fails to claim what she has learned to do in a professional way, because both spouses, for example, agree that she conducts the household. This can, of course, result in the fact that at the end of such a marriage this woman is dependent on receiving maintenance payments because she has not worked for a long time. Now it may be that she owes the divorce, but it is still unfair that she does not receive any support under the conditions mentioned, in view of all that she has brought into marriage, at an altitude that would allow her to exist. We Socialists want a judge to be able, taking into account all these circumstances of a woman, to grant or grant a maintenance on grounds of fairness in such cases, in order to prevent a social disaster, which would ultimately also endanger the children of this marriage. That is to say, it is essentially a matter of deciding, taking into account all circumstances, taking into account the development of a marriage, taking into account what both partners have brought in, at the end of this negotiation, whether to be paid in individual cases, taking into account the fact that it has led to divorce, also taking into account the indebtedness, to prevent the need for maintenance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3150	Please ask for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3166	This is a qualitative development of the law to ensure that social suffering is no longer possible from this point of view. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists are allowed You are therefore asking to reconsider what you have so far put into the debate, namely your rejection of this draft, and to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3196	The current hour is now under discussion by the Federal Minister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3217	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Justice policy must deal with changing social and economic conditions and find solutions to new circumstances. Otherwise, an intolerable tension between the right on the one hand and social and economic reality on the other – a tension relationship that could call into question the acceptance of the right to the citizen and ultimately endanger the confidence of the citizen in the rule of law. In this sense, I have always understood judicial policy and I believe I can say that there has been no standstill in judicial policy in recent years. In particular, in the end of 1998, a number of important and difficult legislative projects were successfully implemented, with which the legislator has responded to special challenges of our time. Thinking For example, they are subject to the genetic engineering liability provisions, the nuclear liability law, the takeover law, the Eurojustice accompanying law and the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1998. I am pleased that these laws could be passed mainly with the votes of the opposition parties. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that there will continue to be no deadlock in the judicial policy. In the part of the legislative period ahead, we are still working on other important reform projects. By my previous speaker, the two – also a focus in the public debate – have been mentioned reform projects supplementing the criminal code to create permanent legal basis for the out-of-court settlement and other forms of disversion, as well as the matrimonial and divorce law, in which we are particularly concerned with protecting the economically weaker spouses more effectively – during upright marriage and in the event of marital failure. Of the rest of the legislative projects, I would just like to mention the most important: a comprehensive change in the child's right to improve the rights of the child, better ensure his well-being in the event of the separation of his parents and strengthen his position in the labour market. We also intend to reform the law on property, which aims to improve the protection of the intellectual rights of mentally ill and mentally disabled people, particularly in homes and other care facilities, to find a solution to the problem of the increasing number of orders for property and to improve the quality of care provided by experts. We also plan reforms in the field of professional rights of lawyers and notaries, which will adapt the legal framework of activity in free legal professions to the economic and technological challenges of our time. In addition, we consider a reform of the cooperative law, with which most of it from 19th century onwards are still in focus. In the 19th century, legislation on this form of society is intended to be adapted to today's economic and legal needs in the interests of promoting the cooperative idea. Finally, we are also working on changes in antitrust law, particularly in the institutional field, in order to ensure a more efficient approach to competition in the changed economic environment of an integrated Europe. As far as Diversion is concerned, discussions with the government parties are already well advanced and I intend to introduce the StPO-Novelle to the Council of Ministers in December. On the matrimonial and divorce law, the assessment period ended at the end of October.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3279	Mr Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3300	I would like to present the revised text to the Council of Ministers at the beginning of next year after evaluation and discussion of the outcome of the evaluation. This also applies to changes in the professional rights of lawyers and notaries. In addition, there are a number of government documents for smaller legislative projects, but they are no less important to practice, such as a consolidated resolution law and a law on the remuneration of insolvency administrators on the initiative of the Committee on Justice. A draft assessment will be sent in December to reform the law of the child. The reform projects on property law and cooperative law will be completed in the first quarter of next year. Finally, we are currently preparing for the implementation of the distance selling directive, which was adopted at EU level and which is important for the further development of consumer protection. In this context, I would like to point out that judicial policy is increasingly also referring to legal progress within the framework of the European Union. Especially during the Austrian Presidency, good progress has been made in a number of important instruments, such as the directives on consumer guarantees, amendments to the Product Liability Directive, the delay in payment in trade, electronic signature and the Statute of the European Stock Company. In the field of criminal law, an agreement was reached under the Austrian Presidency on joint measures in the field of money laundering and the collection of proceeds from crime, against child pornography on the Internet, against corruption in the private sector, and on a comprehensive resolution on prevention against organised crime. The fullness of justice-related activities in the EU would lead to the present framework. I presented to the public before the summer a draft discussion on the need for intensive preparation of major projects for the redefinition of the criminal procedure, which from the beginning has received much approval and is now being discussed intensively by the legal professions involved in criminal proceedings. Finally, the preparatory work so far and the results of the discussion at hand give me the opportunity to draw up a draft assessment of the overall reform of the dispute procedure in the first months of next year. In the light of what I mean by my demanding legislative programmes, some of which could and should still be fulfilled during this legislative period, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen in the High House, to cooperate constructively and to discuss matters so that the broadest possible social and political consensus can be reached, as is true of the good tradition of Austrian judicial policy and the style of the judicial committee of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3352	Thank you many times, Minister of State. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are known to be 5 minutes each. First speaker is Mrs Doris Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3380	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has already explained what he has done for this legislative period in the field of justice. There was a work programme for the judicial sector, which was also presented at the beginning of this legislative period. And it is without a doubt that at this time a great deal has been achieved and some things have been implemented. However, I would like to follow Mr Jarolim's remarks and, above all, to speak on those areas which are actually ready to decide on the table, whose decision-making would not be contrary. In a press release, the Federal Minister also announced that he is "good hope" in this regard and sees a chance of realization. I would like to tailor these areas because they are not major ideological issues, they are about taking note of social realities and voting on them. I would like to cut off, for example, the reform of divorce law. The big question in the debate on divorce law is what meaning a divorce in divorce is supposed to have. I think it is important that we know that these divorcing stocks, which are indebted to indebtedness...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3407	The Socialist Group has proposed the current hour. I would therefore ask you to pay this attention, Mr Schnizer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3422	I would like to point out that these divorce status stocks, particularly as regards the post-marital maintenance, have actually existed in their core features since 1938. We must be clear, however, about under what attitude in 1938 these grounds of divorce and their consequences were created and also decided upon. It must therefore also be clear to us that this was an epoch in which it was not about emancipation of women or equality in marriage, but in which exactly the opposite was the case. Today, we are pleased to be so far in our country that the right of women to self-realization, the right to be able to reconcile work and family is generally accepted. The fact that 97 percent of all women want to agree on child, family, and job shows that they want to take their equal place in society, which is also demanding and that we must also be legitimate in following this reality. Therefore, the implementation of the reform in divorce law is primarily about adapting to actual social change and their recognition, and about not pushing a majority of the population to a world view of 1938, which is no longer in line with their reality in life. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: So, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There is no even applause on your own group, in such comparisons!]] It's a women's right today... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not even the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In comparison with 1938, be careful!]] Mr Khol, I can imagine that these changes in divorce law do not correspond to your "natural" right, but it corresponds to the common sense of making these changes. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] It cannot be that we have rules on the basis of which women must cooperate in men's business. If they cooperate, then the women's entitlement to their benefits, which they bring into the holding, should not be based on the profit of a company. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a second point, in which I think your word, Mr. Federal Minister, in God's ear: No standstill in judicial policy! But on questions of rental rights, I experience something else. I would like to thank the experts of your ministry for the excellent draft on small adjustments, which have, in any case, excluded all major ideological issues, such as the question of the right of entry of equal-sex partners et cetera, in which it is really a matter of implementing small, concrete improvements for tenants, as regards the provision of a reduction in the cost of housing, for example, by reducing the cost of handling and not imposing high costs on home care providers. There would therefore be a right to rent on a consumer basis if we had been able to make this change. But unfortunately there is a political group in this House who, for my unimaginable reasons, does not agree, although everything is negotiated and is on the table. It would be possible to implement this reform. I'm looking for you...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3507	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3528	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to implement these reforms, which, as I have said, constitute an understanding of social realities, in order not to end up as a non-realist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3559	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3580	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr President, I would like to make the point here that the microphone setting is so bad that there is almost nothing to be heard in plenary. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A disaster!]] I'm trying to correct this. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Now on the topic of the current hour. We had 16 committee meetings in the field of justice during this legislative period – and it has lasted for three years so far! 72 agenda items have been completed, including very large reform projects such as rental law-novelle, copyright law, broker law, contractor contract law and two major criminal law change laws – think You're back: Noise attack and intensification of punishments in sexual offences. I do not want to list everyone because the Minister has already mentioned the essentials. Of those 13 judicial projects in the Coalition Pact, 80 percent have already been achieved positively. Whoever speaks of a standstill here is either not informed at all, has poorly researched or is malicious – and then the evidence of the opposite is of no use! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== In July 1998, there was a current debate with the Minister, on the one hand, on the projects to be carried out, and on the other, on the activities during the EU Presidency. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of ÖVP) It means "Coalitions partner" and not "coalition enemy"! That's not how I imagine a partnership!]] The Minister has explained how intensive his work in the field of justice is during the Presidency and that he will be able to use autumn to carry out evaluation procedures so that we can carry out these projects after the Presidency. Mrs Bures! The rental right you mention was neither in a review nor was it negotiated. On the contrary: There were some who wished for something that was not a majority. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Aha!]] Send They will review the draft so that all the groups concerned can deliver their opinions so that any proposals for improvement can be made! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] In fact, it was a wealth of opinions made in the course of the review process, both in terms of the reform of marriage law and in terms of the division, that it was very likely to lead to a new reflection on it. As regards the reform of marriage law, the assessment procedure has shown that there has been a wide range of critical to most negative opinions which have warned that the supposedly good draft can be a real boomerang for women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the EIA have used the assessment procedure to bring in our proposals for improvement. Just because we have been the only one of the political groups to express ourselves publicly, it says suddenly: Stand still! There's nothing left! – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, review procedures are in place to bring forward proposals for improvement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the division is concerned, we have presented to the Minister of Justice a very clear draft improvement, and we hope that he will take account of our wishes. In the field of justice, it was never Usus to decide hush-push due to media accompanying music on call laws. The field of justice has always planned for the long term, developed scientifically, discussed politically and then decided with a broadest consensus possible. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Earlier, Mrs. Colleague!]] Even today, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Before your time! That's not a justification!]] I do not know any other committee in which opposition requests are not only voted down, but rather a committee consultation, and in which opposition requests are considered with a hearing. This is only happening in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3726	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3747	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is true that in the Committee on Justice, the climate is slightly different and a little better – one can certainly follow that. But it has become much worse since we had Mrs. Fekter as chairman. That must be noted too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's all relative!]] If Mr Fekter is told here and today that there is a wide-ranging discussion, I would like to remind him that, especially in the case of divorce law, the ÖVP has shone in the non-parliamentary working groups through absence for two years. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] You were never present! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Never?]] One time you sent one of your Members of Parliament, and that was at the end of all the negotiations! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... was there! The family ministry was there!]] After all the political groups, all the scientists and all the relevant bodies had given their opinions, you agreed to a club meeting, and then in this case you turned down my demands! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you for aliens at side jump?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you for aliens at side jump?]] It was nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] - To read out where it stands. Mrs Fekter! In the course of this debate, She really misses the subject. In fact, if you do not think anything better in this draft law or ministerial draft, which has been sent to review it, than to discuss whether or not adultery should be a ground for divorce, or only if it has contributed to it in connection with the destruction of a marriage, then you have not really read the draft properly, even with regard to maintenance requirements. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We have rehearsed the violence which had not been foreseen by the working group at all!]] They didn't bring her in! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If we hadn't mentioned the violence, she wouldn't have happened!]] We've been relevating all of this for a long time. If you had been involved in the working groups, you would have had an idea what the matter is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You then made something on the subject that you just sprang up on. It's true, you've been the first to make a press release about it. But that's always the easiest way: Nothing to work and then pretend a media presence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer]] That's your way! Otherwise, nothing was there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would like to say something about the maintenance claim because, of course, what Mr Bures said must not remain in the room. The introduction of a right of maintenance for divorced spouses, as is planned, is still at a minimum standard of living in excess of the minimum standard of living, but also a breach of the rule of law. Minister! They themselves said that a standard must be borne by the acceptance of the population. This is precisely what I can tell you, that 80 percent of the Austrian population does not support: that a guilty spouse can suddenly impose maintenance claims! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I would remind you that our legal order assumes that contracts must be complied with or that they must be resolved and amended in agreement. If a contract is unilaterally violated, the injured person may demand that it be set by the breaker as if the contract had been observed. This, in the end, also gives rise to the claim of maintenance for innocent divorced spouses in marital law. This is to be maintained at the same level as they would have had him in maintaining marriage. Such a departure from the debt principle in the maintenance field would also be a breach of citizens' legal awareness. I believe that the meaning of what will come to us if this is the law has not yet been shed out. For example, it would also provoke maintenance claims from already divorced marriages, for there is no provision for divorces so far. I am really warning against creating a process of this kind in the maintenance area. I do not think that the allocation entitlements to all investments and expenditure in the business sector should be extended, because the basis of the claim should be, according to the draft investment commitment and the expenditure incurred, regardless of the economic success of this investment. The company could theoretically be in bankruptcy despite this investment, but it would still be used in the division. It can't be like that! The use of equity cannot subsequently become a boomerang in the divorce procedure. On the other hand, we will always speak out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It cannot be that, in the event of a rose war, the destruction of a company threatens to destroy not only the entrepreneur but also jobs. On the other hand, we will... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] Minister! You've made it a little outrageous, but not in this form. It's still inside. I ask you to read your own draft. I believe that property rights must ultimately be guaranteed. Let me comment on another sentence on mediation. Mr Minister, I think it is urgently necessary in mediation that we have a professional image law, otherwise we are threatened with a flood of angular writing in this area. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: Yes,...!]] That can happen. I would therefore like to say that I really think you should work out an appropriate professional image in this regard and introduce it to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3944	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e3965	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listened to Mr Fekter, you really felt that there is an active committee chairman who is bringing something forward, and only the evil others are not involved. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We hear them, but we don't understand them!]] It seems to have written down a list of rules on how many points have been dealt with in committees. By the way, we will have to pay attention to how we apply for it, because it has obviously meant that the number of items on the agenda can be presented as a special ID card for its activity, because it has no other ID card. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: My God, well!]] Although I do not very often agree with Mr Ofner – but sometimes in the judicial policy – but when he says that the times in the judicial committee were different, he is absolutely right. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You were logged out in the review period! You didn't say anything!]] No, Mrs Fekter! After all, this Presidency still has the ÖVP, and so it could be said – and I would have liked it to be like this – that: Now there is a woman who should show that something is going on here. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What do you have against women?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I think you're too successful, so you don't know what's happening!]] Unfortunately, in this case you have done exactly the opposite. However, I do not want to deal so much with your Presidency, but with the position of the EIA in the overall judicial policy. If I have listened to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has prepared the papers prepared by his office, and who is being discussed, it is obvious that before the decision-making process, the remedial action of the proposals comes either from the interest groups of the EIA or from the EIA itself. Federal Minister! You have talked about your draft discussion on the criminal procedure. – I find it remarkable and positive that there are these. It is true that there has been a wide-ranging discussion about this, only: Their representation, according to which "now" would be spoken of in specialist circles, unfortunately does not correspond to the truth. Because after talking about it in specialist circles, the ÖVP has built up a barrier. However, there are also these on the part of SPÖ, because the interior is the actual brake. This is where the views meet. It is often the case that different groups at the outside edges want the same thing. After what the police were to be allowed at all or what was not revealed, representatives of the Interior expressed the opinion that this was too much restriction, and thus there was a no. However, when it comes to expanding police rights, such as the Security Police Act or the noise attack and grid arrest, Mr Fekter, unfortunately, has highlighted this in a positive way, this is being forced. I would like to say: When it comes to the expansion of state power, then very likely coalitions will find themselves. However, when it comes to extending citizens' rights, no matter in any area, there are brakes either in the whole group or in the interest groups of this group. This seems to me to be the essential assessment of the debate on justice policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, I would like to mention a second example: The Ministry of Justice has made a proposal on criminal law concerning economic law, which concerns negligent Krida. It was a reasonable proposal. But who did this fail, and why is it no longer spoken of? At the Chamber of Commerce! I wanted to state that in such cases either the EIA Group itself slows down or its stakeholders builds a blockade. With regard to the right to divorce and divorce, I think it is also very self-evident to suddenly come up with proposals after a three-year working time of the working group set up for this purpose in order to delay the discussion. And I cannot see any other reason than that the ÖVP wants to address this complex as an election topic, as an election topic, with which moralising demands should be laid down by law in order to stir up emotions in this way, especially in a particular media scene. In my view, this is the only explanation that, after three years of work with some 'arguments' protected, serious deliberations and decision-making are to be prevented here in Parliament. In this respect, the expression "Stillness of Justice Policy" is no mistake as to what the choice of words is. You, Mrs Fekter, mentioned how many committee meetings you had convened and how many agenda items there would have been. – There are a number of templates that are incomplete, but you are not willing to take them on the agenda. These include petitions from citizens. In other words, you are not only prepared to deal with the proposals put forward by groups of this House, but also not to deal with those of citizens in the Committee. That too is a question of political culture! Federal Minister! Before my speaking time is over: I already have the impression that many proposals come from your ministry...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4054	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4070	... and that you are willing to deal with the changed situation of society. I would therefore also ask you to consider how legally applicable rights can be enforced unimpededly, for example in relation to abortion. And you know what I'm talking about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4100	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4149	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: the microphone is not possible either!]] The theme "Stillness of Justice Policy": I place such a one not only because of the fact that the Presidency is in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, but above all because - as has already been said by previous speakers - because it lies with Mrs Fekter. In fact, there are very substantial and significant legislative proposals blocked, and above all there is a public debate – I would like to address the reform of divorce and divorce in particular – which, in my opinion, is totally counterproductive and does not correspond to the way in which draft laws are usually dealt with. To demonstrate on the basis of the topic of divorce and divorce reform: They have specifically and consciously launched a discussion in the public about adultery. They have tried to play and emotionalize a question that certainly has a very high moral value in our society. This is a debate that is not, in fact, to be led along this question, even if you were to deal closely with this reform template – and much less if you were to deal with the real concerns and contents of a matrimonial law and divorce reform. In fact, this is a secondary question – purely from the construction of the law and as to what you really want to do – regardless of the fact that it is an important and right question both socially and morally. But when it comes to the law work itself, we think it is very different to put things in the foreground. We presented a study on this subject two years ago. I am very glad that this very comprehensive study was also part and basis of the interministerial working group which has already been mentioned several times, which discussed a marriage and divorce reform. The focus, the central content of this study, was the indebted-independent maintenance. I would now like to go back to the point you have made, Mr Graf. You, Mr Graf, believe that indebtedness should play a significant role in assessing the maintenance, and you have spoken of a "contract". However, you must not start from the maintenance, but you must consider whether you should introduce sanctions regardless of the maintenance. The maintenance is not the penalty to apply, but the maintenance is something that people who are unable to maintain themselves for certain personal reasons of life are unable to do for themselves. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are primarily women who have taken care of the education of children and who may also have refrained from exercising their profession, because in their marriage there has been the agreement that the woman remains at home to lead the household and raise the children. This question alone is crucial, and it should also be crucial for the maintenance. This has also been taken into account in the bill. The question of whether a person has been guilty or not in a contract, such as a marriage, must be dealt with at another level, if desired. In such a case, you must make a proposal from the FPÖ, as you think such a catalogue of sanctions should look. But at least this must be made independent of the maintenance. The maintenance is not suitable as a "punishment" or "reward", but, in our opinion, it is solely based on criteria to take into account the division of work in marriage, the duration of marriage, the jointly generated assets, the common standard of living, but above all, the division of work after marriage has ended, i.e. in the case of divorce. Who will take on what part of the work? After that – and only after that! – we believe that the level of maintenance should be adjusted. I regret the draft law that no re-codification has taken place. The whole thing is a small approach, a very small step in the right direction, but far too little to do with the satisfaction of what would be expected, it is a law from the last century that has profoundly patriarchal features. And that is something that expresses itself in many things – and be it only because there are still the "gift of tomorrow", the "wedding of marriage", the "violence of keys" and similar terms in it. This would have to be reworded in order to come to a law in which there is at least a gender approach which corresponds to the principle of equal treatment in all areas and all paragraphs – and is not just a single small, first step in a certain direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4220	Mrs. Dr. Mertel came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4241	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The choice of the theme "No standstill in judicial policy" does not mean that we believe there has been a standstill in judicial policy. I would like to reject this accusation by my group and by the chairman of the Committee on Justice. We are talking about avoiding a standstill. We want to avoid it for good reasons, because we still have important tasks and projects in front of us in this legislative period, all things that should be done in the interests of the people of Austria. I would like to follow up on the statements by Mr Michalek, the Minister for Justice, who has explained what has already been done in the field of justice in this legislative period. – Ladies and gentlemen! This can be seen, even if, in my group's view, some steps are too short. Nevertheless: It can really be seen the entire package that has been developed so far. This arc ranges from the Federal Law on the Protection from Violence in the Family, which clearly achieved substantial improvements for women and children, to, for example, the Criminal Change Act 1996. We have also created instruments to combat organised crime; Provisions on the protection of children have been adopted in the Criminal Change Act 1998. And this arch also extends from a Europe-wide unique nuclear liability law in 1999 to a change in rental rights; in economic law, from the takeover to insolvency law and the new criminal enforcement law in 1996. In this context, an EU Company Change Act is also to be mentioned. The government coalition has therefore brought under control very important legislative packages in the field of justice, and I would like to maintain this clearly here too. Ladies and gentlemen! From the summer this year, however, some sand came into the gearbox. On some sides it has been said that through the EU Presidency we can only succeed a little or that a forthcoming election campaign will not go on. . Such suspicions have been rejected by my group from the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! The time to the next elections must be used to the best possible extent. The citizens of Austria have a claim that we will continue to work constructively. That also means, Mrs Fekter, that we should make a constructive effort to remove this sand from the gearbox. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There's no one inside!]] This is certainly also part of the fact that the EIA is abandoning its blockade policy on family and divorce reform, which is really difficult to understand. . However, I have heard with satisfaction that at least Mr Fekter is moving on, and I hope that her group will move along. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I already said that...!]] But you have to explain the following to us: The interministerial working group has drawn up a draft in two to three years' work without having been able to take part in it. After the proposal was put forward, opposition was suddenly raised. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But there was no draft law yet! A review process is just there!]] I think that was not prepared enough in the long term. The resources of a working group that makes its work hard are actually wasted when it is discussed afterwards. I should also like to point out, however, that this working group is dominated primarily by conservative experts and that the Socialist Group was not in any way left alone with this draft. I appeal to our coalition partner ÖVP not to want to be more papal than the Pope, which, of course, will be a little difficult with John Paul. I would like you to take an example at the Austrian Bishops' Conference. They should therefore not be based on supposed "traditional values" and should not defend provisions such as absolute grounds for divorce, if, at the same time, the new planned provisions, such as adultery or refusal of the offspring, are expressly welcomed by the Austrian Bishops' Conference from the sacramental point of view. That would be weird! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But in ecclesial marriage it looks different!]] A comment on the disputed question of indebtedness: It should be granted only in very serious cases of hardship, under limited conditions and only on a limited time-limit in order to overcome social disadvantages. That must be understandable to every woman/everybody! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is also about the fact that, as a result, the children do not suffer from divorced marriages. I am convinced that, with good will, everyone will succeed in adopting an essential package in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4337	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4359	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mertel, I would like to give you supplementary education if you think that our thoughts would not be understandable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I can tell you the following: We will never make the ÖVP a policy that is against the healthy sense of justice of the population! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is a strong piece: "good sense of right"!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum as well as to the Greens.]] But this happened for the time being at the SPÖ. We do not understand that, as grounds for divorce, violence and neglected housework should, as it were, be at the same level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: "Healthy sense of justice" – and that only in November 1998!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum as well as to the Greens.]] On the contrary: We have committed ourselves to the fact that the exercise of violence is a cause of divorce, and we have had to address this – that has already been mentioned today. For three years this working group, this Commission, has been working and there has been no consensus there. I wonder, at least, Mrs Dr Schmidt, about Your parliamentary self-understanding, for: Commissions have often worked out something, but it is decided here. In any event, I would like to know this right as a free and directly elected mandate, which is responsible to the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the theme of this current hour, "No standstill in judicial policy", I couldn't start much. "No standstill in judicial policy," it was said, without any interpunction. My interpretation would actually be such as to confirm the excellent balance sheet of Mr Michalek. And it has indeed happened a lot in this area. We from the Austrian People's Party were the driving force in many legal provisions – and this is especially true of two criminal law reforms. What is happening in this House is very controversial, but this is well defended by the Federal Minister responsible, who has once again stressed that such legal provisions are more necessary than ever, for in Austria a third of all violent crimes are attributed to organised crime; and an increase is to be feared. It was very important, therefore, that we were vehemently opposed by the ÖVP to the will of our coalition partner in a fierce discussion, and that is what we owe to our Judge Maria Fekter, who has very concretely expressed our position on this. The reality shows how important and true it was. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second point concerns our vehement approach to the protection of children. Not only the Dutroux case in Belgium was the reason – he was just the trigger – that we were so vehemently committed to the protection of children, but: Our children are also worthy of protection because they don't have a lobby behind them. They therefore need our special protection! We from the ÖVP have taken the initiative to protect children in an urgent request, and this initiative has allowed many regulations to be reached to protect them. For example, criminality in the case of possession of child pornography could be intensified. It was also possible to achieve: Damage for victims of sexual violence, the right of way against aggressors, for both mother and child – or vice versa, that is, gender-neutral, for the victims of such loathsome acts. In this context, I would also like to refer to the agency created in the Federal Ministry of the Interior for the control of child pornography content on the Internet. Furthermore, we have, in the continuation of our policy, taken steps to strengthen the protection of victims, as well as the gentle hearing of victims, because it was terrible for some to have to say again about these terrible experiences in court. The Law on Criminal Law 1998 also extended the limitation period beyond the attainment of the age of maturity, so that the perpetrators can be held responsible later. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has rejected this vehemently. Unbreeding and sleeping-like offences were adjusted to the extent of punishment. This means that, on average, the criminal framework will be increased by five years. Finally, I would also like to remind you that in divorce, we were able to bring about the existence of violence as a ground for divorce. There were, therefore, a number of initiatives that the EIA has also set out in this area. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as divorce law is concerned, which is now under discussion and in which you are obviously unable to prevail from the SPÖ with your ideology – that is probably also the reason for the topic of this current hour – I would like to say to you: I am very relaxed in this regard. Go out to the population and discuss with this! The people's right to justice must be taken into account in all cases! It may be that the right to divorce is not that one still has to pay the debtor's allowance, but on the other hand, in the case of divorce, there is no willingness to provide a share of the pension for the innocently divorced partner – a request from my group – in order to contribute to the age assurance of the partner who has done family work. I really don't see that! For this we are by no means of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They will not force us to leave our clear way of protecting marriage, family and children with actions such as this present hour.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4466	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4487	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have not known so far, according to some of my previous speakers, everyone is clear: We're in the middle of the election campaign! Because otherwise, these representations cannot be explained at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it is also the occasion rather scurry: The person of Mr Jarolim's colleague is the judge of the larger government party and complains that the coalition in judicial matters is not going any further. Instead of looking at the right and giving gas in his own party and in the area of the coalition partner, he is trying to give Parliament a moment in this context, and that is only because he hopes to find a larger platform via television. – That's election fight, that's all! The current hour is a tool of opposition to get hearing. However, the government party itself is on the push. This looks like Mr. Jarolim went here and asked himself: Jarolim, give us gas! - He's supposed to do that! He is not in opposition, but in a government party and is therefore intended to do so in the appropriate way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But if something hangs, it will be in the Committee. Mrs Fekter has already said this: Since its presidency in the Committee, it has not really been the same as before, in the negative sense. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because the liberals are no longer allowed to agree! Otherwise we would have a five-party consensus! We always get a four-party consensus because you can't agree!]] It is up to the judicial sector under its committee chairmanship to become a body like any other. There is no real consensus effort. First, the templates are pushed and sluggish for months and years in the lap of the coalition, and then, when you have finally agreed, you are sorry at every hour of the committee meeting. Then the small steam roller is passed over everything, and this is still in the wrong direction. This is today's judicial policy, it's not like it was before, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this may also be the reason for the fact that there is no longer an absolute predominance of the interests and interests of the Committee in the field of justice, which has left all party politics in the background. It will be partly responsible for the fact that, for example, in the ÖVP, at least a government party, there is no longer any members of a legal profession here in the House of Members, no lawyer, no notary, no prosecutor, no judge. That's a real disaster! Please see that you get back to Parliament someone who exercises a legal profession! A small opposition party may be able to afford to have no one in its political group who is active in a legal profession, but a large party, once a state-bearing party, can by no means afford to do so, colleague Bauer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But a healthy sense of law is not bad either!]] She can't replace a teacher who's still so eloquent. In judicial matters, legalists should be speaking, but they can only do so if you have them. In this context neither university teachers nor other teachers can change anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One has the feeling that this is not at all possible. The Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights has, like other committees before it, become a field of party policy, and one gets the impression that the content of the proposal will not be based on the content of the proposal, but on the outcome of the recent opinion poll. This is a development in judicial matters that should be tried to get away from it quickly, ladies and gentlemen. But also in the direction of Minister Michalek. It is true that some things have happened, but I do not think that one can replace density of action in the field of justice by running out one novel at a time with scarce texts. We always complain about the flood of law. We are annoyed at the fact that in the individual matter laws find the way into the federal law papers only circulatory. In my time as a minister, I have resisted the fact that, as I have mentioned it, there are "annual criminal law novels". In the meantime we have arrived at two "annual criminal law novels", but not because so much more to say or so much more would be said, but because we are dealing with things tremblingly. This is a frequent consideration of the media responsible for this, but the density we need in judicial matters is not signalled by this, ladies and gentlemen. One word to Mr Jarolim: He took the view that the extrajudicial compensation for adults now to come was an advantage for the victims. He's wrong in that! You can only say: "There's Jarolim!" On the extrajudicial compensation for adults, one can be of a shared opinion, a lot will be discussed about it, but at least he is not favourable to the victims, because the victims are under a certain pressure to reach an agreement. There may already be the fact that a person who has been injured, for example, in a serious dispute, is content with this pressure with a replacement amount of 10 000 s, although in fact 150 000 s belong to him; and then they are gone. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] So, you have to be careful with forecasts...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4569	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4584	... with regard to a legal regulation which is not yet in place, but which one will still have to think through and consider.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4614	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mrs Bauer has to recover from the content of her own speech in the coloir, which I understand well, but one thing has become clear: There is a real campaign! I would like to refer to an expression by Mrs Bauer, who is also sitting in the Committee on Justice, which has also been used by Mrs Fekter, namely the "healthy sense of justice". If Mrs Bauer addresses the healthy sense of justice with which she wishes to defend her blockade policy in the field of justice, then she implies implicitly that there is also a sick sense of justice. And the feeling of ill health is obviously the one that is primarily represented in the Committee on Justice by individual Members and which does not agree with their opinion. Mrs Bauer! It should be a teaching to you that, when Mrs Fekter first used the expression of a healthy sense of law, he found it at least worth apologizing in committee at that time. It was of the opinion that, when it comes to the names of the children, one should decide on the right of names, according to the sense of health, and therefore the "natural" could only be the name of the man, for why should it be the name of the woman in this context, since the women have "very little" to do with the children's wars against the men, so that "at least" the name of the man should be preferred. – This is really a very "healthy sense of justice" – perhaps for your clients somewhere in the back forest, but certainly not for an open state and an open society, Mrs Fekter. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I would also like to say in this context that Mrs Fekter has preferred not to hold a meeting of the Committee on Justice during the current eight months. And when it was then criticized that there was no meeting of the Committee on Justice and that there had therefore been a standstill in the judiciary, it now convened two judicial committee meetings within six weeks, but in reality did not put anything on the agenda, which it considered to be at least compatible. It is only pro-forma consultations, and nothing goes further on the crucial issues. The blockade we have to take note of in the field of justice and simply have to focus on it because it exists is therefore not a question of technical materials – some of which have already been listed today – but rather a question of social policy materials. This will become quite clear if you take out the most plausible examples: extrajudicial compensation, new divorce rights, or if you simply refuse to do so in the Committee on Justice. As an example of this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, women who opt for abortion are increasingly being plagued before the clinics that they are being tried to require that they be exposed to all kinds of actions, but that there is no willingness on the part of the EIA to focus on and talk about such a problem. It seems that Mrs Bauer's "healthy sense of justice" does not fit in with the question of what there is in this area of new fundamentalism. Mrs Bauer! They were outside earlier when I said it, so I say it again: Mrs Fekter has apologised for this expression because she obviously has some historical training in the Committee on Justice. It is a question of your training, it is a question of your democratic sentiment, Madam Members, whether you are here for a historic burden and, as you know, you will still be apologising for a problematic expression. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You're wrong! The expression "healthy people feel" was that! I said: right-wing feeling!]] If you already want to make an election campaign in the area of justice policy, Mrs Fekter, please don't make it with your opinion on the legal term that is bound by hatred! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I didn't do it! Right-wing!]] It is also necessary to remove the following: The blame for a standstill in judicial policy – I say pars pro toto, as part of the whole – is not the party-independent Minister of Justice, but the great coalition. It is derived from the self-trailer in which you have gone through the employment agreements in which you have defined: There's no longer any coalition-free space. They have thus created the situation that, in Austria, where one of the government parties has a reservation, majority that would be found in the house no longer exists. There are no majority outside of what you have written in your Coalition Convention. And this self-retirement actually leads to a shattering of Parliament. The conservative minority in this House can thus block social policy concerns, for which there would be a majority, if there were to be a majority in accordance with the principle of majority throughout the House. This is an accusation which is not only to be addressed to the ÖVP, which, of course, actively slows down in this matter, but also a reservation that is to be addressed to the SPÖ, because you tolerate it from the SPÖ. They allow us to see that there is no free majority in this House! Ladies and gentlemen! Liberals want to have more movement in justice policy. We want the majority principle to finally come back to the House and that we are not exposed to the rule of a small conservative minority by its possible blockade here in the House. We want, in particular – in general political terms – at last working control mechanisms in this House, so that this also constitutionally large coalition, this two-thirds majority coalition, can finally be placed in its confines, where it circumscribes, for example, the fundamental rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4712	The next item is Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4733	Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bauer, if you take the term "healthy sense of right" into your mouth, you should already know the tradition of this term. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: "People feel" and "right-wing" – there is a difference!]] For social hygiene reasons, I would recommend that you be more cautious with medical terms related to "law" and "people". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I wouldn't use "social hygiene" either!]] You know exactly, Mr Khol, that it is only a small step from the "healthful sense of law" to the "healthful national body". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's a difference!]] You know that! And if you say, Well, then... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "This is a difference!"I said!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a difference, but only a small difference, Mr. Khol. You know that! And if You try such terms, which speak of "healthy" and "sick", then you have to be aware of what traditions you conjure up with them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Social Hygienic" is very dangerous! "Social Hygiene" is much more dangerous!]] [[Further calls.]] If you are only able to think more in categories such as "healthy right" or "healthy people", which share this sense of right, or "clear house mind" and "healthy mind", which should lead politics, then it is obviously only the border of plates that determines your policies and interests. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Do you have anything to say?]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What is against "house mind"? There's a difference between "feeling right" and "feeling people"!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I think this is fatal and worrying when it comes from a party like the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The second point, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party: I think I can recall that this week there was an opinion from the second President of the National Council, Dr Neisser, in which he rightly complained, unlike President Fischer, that the national Parliament was actually deprived of part of its duties because of the fact that certain materials will be decided at EU level. This criticism is old. There were before him some national council presidents of the ÖVP who shared this criticism. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! As much as we should discuss whether it is actually the EU level which makes this national Parliament a part of it unnecessary, we should also discuss the fact that it is government policy and, above all, the attitude of the EIA that this Parliament wants to make unnecessary. For it is you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA that, at the level of the Council of Ministers, it is you who are blocking all the crucial materials that we are to discuss at this current hour and are now refusing to discuss them here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Why is the law of marriage and divorce not here in the National Council for a debate? – Because the ÖVP is blocked at the level of the Council of Ministers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Why, then, does not the amendment of the Rules of Procedure have to be discussed here in plenary or in the Committee on Justice? - Because the ÖVP is blocking! Mrs Bauer! Once again you can lead the common sense and represent the innocence of the country, but that is not enough, Mrs Bauer. They have a problem with the fact that it is the ÖVP that has always been and is blocking everything. Although ÖVP likes to represent itself as the lawyer of the fathers, the mothers, the children, it is precisely that party that always opposes the interests of the fathers, mothers and children when it comes to it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also held this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and there you were of the ÖVP those who acted as the lawyers of the fathers and the children when it came to taking away the mother's money. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Step here She then left – it was the colleague Fekter – and she said: This law is a boomerang for women! – The ÖVP as the lawyer of women: one must be afraid of that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, it is!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Here you go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I think you're more afraid of you!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It really can't be true that you want to act as a woman's lawyer. There are enough other parties that could say this with more legitimacy. But it's not about the mutual calculation. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In Salzburg the voters are afraid...!]] Only if the facts are as obvious as with you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, then you should get on your nose. It is important to repeat one: Let Parliament work! They are the ones that prevent the work here in the house, including in the judicial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4965	The current hour is over. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e4990	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Amendments to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5229	Mr Mag. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Schweitzer raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting which was communicated and issued in writing. The objections made in writing concern Agenda items 13 to 16, whose amortisation is required. In view of the fact that I hold on the agenda or do not join the objections, the National Council has to take the decision. A debate has also been called for in accordance with § 50 GOG. I limit the speaking time in this debate to 5 minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure will allow a maximum of three speakers per club. Mr Schweitzer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5259	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can join seamlessly where Mr Oillinger has stopped: It is the government parties that prevent this Parliament from working! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I give an example from the Committee on Transport, which is seamlessly reflected in the accusations made earlier. There, particularly important applications were simply postponed, despite the most urgent request of the liberals for treatment. These were all topics for the EU Transport Ministerial Conference, which took place on 30 June. ==References== It would have been particularly important to take place on December. These were requests concerning Brennermaut, i.e. an essential issue for the population. These were also applications for protection of the whole of Austria from transit traffic, submitted by Mr Nußbaumer, which also affects a large part of the Austrian population. It was also a request on the subject of "Tout-Stretching", tabled by Mr Meischberger, and this was a request relating to the Euro-Vignette, both of which are to be addressed in the framework of the Transport Ministerial Conference. Finally, these were applications for the weekend/feeday ban, which also concerns essential areas of interest to the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian people want a solution to be found and ministers sent to the conference with a clear mandate of action. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You were not even in committee! That's ridiculous!]] Mr Kukacka, I should like to say this clearly and clearly. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You weren't in committee at all! A disaster: you don't know what you're talking about!]] Furthermore, there was a request concerning alternatives to the Semmering base tunnel, which had already been postponed for the second time, Mr. Collegue, without discussion – already for the second time! – although at the time the Court of Auditors' report is at least one, namely the Minister of Transport, One who has therefore known the testimony of this report to this project. [[Abg. Fink: Schweitzer, we're not in school!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You weren't in committee at all! That's ridiculous! That's cabaret!]] Stand firm – Mr Kukacka, calm down! . that this Court of Auditors report, particularly the Federal Minister of the Environment, but above all, the Federal Chancellor's climate, is most heavily burdened. Both are thereby massively burdened! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you don't want to discuss that! They are the main responsibility for the fact that decisions have already been taken, although the relevant framework conditions have not been clarified at all, although it has not been clarified what costs will be incurred in the meantime, although it has not been clarified what the financing mode looks like, although it has not been clarified how long the duration will actually be and what the geological conditions are. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You don't know because you weren't in committee at all!]] All of this has not been adequately investigated! Ladies and gentlemen! Now the Court of Auditors' report is on the table, but you do not want to discuss it. You want to discuss the long and wide range of issues about a radio licence law and an amateur radio law, but you don't want to discuss these important topics. Despite the forthcoming Transport Ministers Conference, you do not put them on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just ridiculous! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are doing so, despite the fact that you have already done three billion shilling in damage to the taxpayer with your actions, alone with the trial stolling, and despite the fact that many billions of shilling will still be done because you are unable to finally stop this project because you do not follow all the recommendations contained in this Court of Auditors report – against better knowledge! I wonder, What are you people's representatives, mine? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are wasting billions for nothing and nothing again and make a single and a climate the wall, especially the ÖVP, which speaks a very different language in the federal states than here inside, which promises exactly what we are calling for outside. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This has nothing to do with it!]] Voices You're with us once! Then you can fulfill what you promise outside here, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once upon a time there was a demand for attitude, but not a rubber hose, but a true attitude, Mr Kukacka! [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... the Rosenstingl!]] Today you will have the opportunity to prove it again. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is paradoxical that one does not deal with essential issues, but wants to deal with the amateur radio law – and as it all means – of the long and broad. ==References== ==References== This year's Minister has to represent an Austrian interest, and he has not received any recommendation from the National Council on how the representatives of the people represent the Austrian interests. You are responsible for this – because the Amateur Radio Act seems to be more at your heart than the really essential issues, right up to the Court of Auditors' report on the Semmering Base Tunnel! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we call on the Liberals to suspend these requests so that our requests can be dealt with as quickly as possible here in this House together with the other issues mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5442	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be surprised that we will not join the objections to the agenda, tabled by Mr Schweitzer. I first asked myself why Mr Schweitzer was so excited today, but then he insisted that he was so excited because he was not present in the committee and therefore had to prepare himself very briefly for his own speech. She was not a masterpiece of parliamentary rhetoric. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The task of the National Council is to make laws. Therefore, the Amateur Radio Act is as important as, for example, the Novelle on the Telecommunications Act, which takes into account the concerns of the population against the growth of the masts. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] National Council committees can do a lot, Mr Schweitzer, but they are not yet bright. How should the Committee then have discussed the Semmering report and put it on the agenda today if it had not yet been available? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There is a request for this!]] This report did not reach the House until this week. To this end, I would like to say the following: We have, of course, not been able to know all this because you were not in committee, so we postponed the request concerning the toll... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You weren't in the committee either! Then how do you know that?]] I asked myself, Mr President, before going to the President-in-Office's Conference with the care of a decent clubman. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Like the Habsburg! The Habsburg has also inquired!]] That's where they told me what's going on. The toll group has been postponed because we are waiting for the Austrian-EC-Switzerland negotiations. We have therefore postponed the Transport Act because it requires further consultations and a survey is foreseen. As far as the Rosenstingl proposal is concerned, it is of course very dangerous, Mr Schweitzer, that you want to represent this request by your former party and club member Rosenstingl. I understand that he needs your representation now, because Mr Rosenstingl has gone to Brazil with the millions. That's all I understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... des Habsburg-Lothringen!]] In the Rosenstingl application we wanted to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we do not support your objections, which are without any material basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5557	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5578	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The statements made by Mr Klobmanns Khol were really touching. In his place I would be a little more careful with some names. – Mr. Dr. Khol! I would recommend that you read what is in the newspapers today about your colleague, Habsburg. That's why I'd be more careful on the topic of Rosenstingl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not the point. We will come to talk about this more often than Mr Khol loves. Rather, it is about the fact that there were four ministers – and they were all transport ministers – who have duly failed. There was a minister who developed an idea and wanted to push through the construction of the Semmering base tunnel in a very short time. There has also been a transport minister, later finance minister and still later Chancellor climate, who has led the Austrian financial world, the Austrian construction world and the Austrian transport world around the nose for about two years with the fiction of the Private Public Partnership, although everyone could know that such a thing has never worked in the transport sector, in the rail infrastructure sector. In addition, there has been a transport minister Scholten, who from the beginning was a mis-occupied and could not stay in the transport resort for long. Finally, there is a Minister for Transport, one who has now clearly failed. This Minister of Transport One also has the forehead to go here and say that he is now making an interpretation of how the Court of Auditors report can actually be understood. It's very interesting what's in the "Kronen Zeitung" today. I quote: "Courtyard: Everything One says is wrong!" – This is a devastating judgment of the President of the Court of Auditors on the transport sector policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say with all clarity: There is a question of what Minister One has done in his own interpretations! Ladies and gentlemen! It was Minister One who constantly encouraged conscious misinterpretations by the ÖBB and HL-AG. It was Minister One who also constantly used misarguments. Once he argued like that, then again different, but always past the thing. He has never said what the project costs and what economic purpose it pursues. His argument was never that way. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister However, one also - and I have to say this clearly - has lost and sabotaged the activity of the Austrian Court of Auditors, for he left an opinion for nine or ten weeks without answering it. It has not only hindered the activities of the Court of Auditors, but also hindered the control of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, Mr President, it is necessary to talk about these things and to put agenda items 13 to 16 off the agenda. For, ladies and gentlemen, where do we actually come from when a Federal Minister who knows the Rules of Procedure exactly, who really knows the Rules of Procedure inside and outside, goes and says: "Okay, I'll leave time, I'll be brief with my opinion, because then the opposition – for example the FPÖ – can't make another request for special examination in another matter!"? – What is the other thing but a disability of the opposition? We must talk about this, I believe, because what One does is a gross abuse of the Constitution! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it is already the case that Minister can give a permanent misinterpretation, we, as the strongest opposition party, certainly do not want to accept one thing: that a minister goes here and the Constitution breaks. That's where we were called on the plan. We will not let that happen, and therefore Minister One will be confronted by our side with the most severe criticism in this regard. We will not allow a minister of this Republic to break the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5658	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5680	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has demonstrated what it thinks about this Parliament: First of all, she sends out a Member of Parliament who speaks of things he has no idea of because he has not been in the committee and who then criticizes what he himself obviously cannot judge. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Firlinger then came out, and he didn't lose a single word about what he was supposed to talk about. It did not even explain why Agenda items 13 to 16 should be removed from the agenda. That also has its good reason! In fact, at the Presidential Conference, Mr Klubobmann's representative, Stadler, explained the following reasons for deposition of these agenda items: Freedom of movement – requests relating to transit, transport and the Semmering base tunnel – is linked to those requests on the agenda, namely the Amateur Funkgesetz et cetera. So the one who obviously did not know, but was definitely against it, was once again Mr Stadler. But, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that in the situation where the liberals are in, they have to borrow from Rosenstingl in order to be able to set up active and up-to-date parliamentary initiatives. This is really the problem! We have clearly said to you, even at the Presidential Conference: The request for transit will be made on the content of the EU's main committee on 2 October. We will be able to discuss this in the next six months, and we will be able to discuss those relating to the Semmering base tunnel in the next few weeks in this House. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: After the Transport Minister's meeting!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then the Transport Minister's meeting is over! You cannot read the calendar!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You always discuss afterwards!]] You want to radicalize! They basically want to talk about something other than what we will decide on! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You don't know the calendar!]] They will not stop the quiet, parliamentary course of things. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You stop him, the parliamentary course of things!]] They may call, but we will do our parliamentary work, so Agenda items 13 to 16 will not be withdrawn from the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5774	Mrs Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5796	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The club members of the government parties have repeatedly called on the decisions of the Presidential Conference, and this is in principle also legitimate, but I would like to remind you of one thing, Dr. Khol and Dr. Kostelka: If, in the debate of important materials, this House does not yet take up in any way what is discussed in the newspapers, in the media and in the public, then there is a risk of losing importance, then there is a risk that the overall reputation of politics will be damaged and that policy will be agreed upon. Dr. Khol! You said this house should produce laws. We have just heard during the current hour that this is not possible because the government parties are in disagreement. This is not only true in the case of divorce law. They know exactly how many materials there are, which have been devoted to a wide range of media, and yet nothing goes on here: from the banking supervision in the control area to the question of how to deal with government data, which is also a subject in the field of control. What happened? – Let us discuss these issues only the media and the public on the streets, or do we also address them in this House? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Of course!]] Of course you can say: There are instruments of opposition to the theme! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The man has circumcised!]] But why, Dr. Khol, should we not be able to discuss this in a way that is not controversial from the outset? But then, in particular, the members of the government should make use of one, I would say, moral obligation to report on current things to this House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Why didn't you take the Semmering Base Tunnel on the topic of your emergency?]] Do you really want to say that the people are not interested in the fact that, for example, this government is no longer producing an option report on security issues?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you not think that this would be more interesting than points 13 to 16 of the agenda? – I think so! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You come into a contradiction!]] In many questions you have remained guilty of the answer, such as in the question: How will the Arms Act continue to work? or in the question: How will animal welfare, genetic engineering and women's policy continue to work with the major popular desire materials? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you will have to listen to. Don't you think it's time to dress a point of women's popular desire in law form?- Oh, my God! Just one point! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Freemans and the Liberal Forum.]] All these materials are currently on ice. But there is always something new about it – whether it is the question of a transport policy concept or another question. The impression is that only the opposition has tried to bring these issues to the house, with the help of debates of objections, urgent requests and urgent requests. But I'll tell you one thing: If the government parties do not have the sparks of an interest to address up-to-date issues, you have a responsibility for the policy itself and the debate is taking place elsewhere. Then you can complain of the flood of laws, a flood of apparently unnecessary laws – this complaint is constantly coming from your group, Mr Lukesch – then you can complain that politics is being so misjudged, then you can complain that economic lobbying has competence, but this accusation is to be addressed to you and to your ministerial regime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] Take care of the current problems! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You caught the wrong theme!]] Then I'll be It is not faced with such a debate on objections, and then Parliament's reputation in general will increase again in the public as a whole. . I therefore endorse the objections to the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5914	I call Mr Gaugg. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e5936	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The clubmen of ÖVP and SPÖ lack any spark of positive basic setting. Reflexively, all opposition parties' requests are rejected, strangled, turned off! The democratic rights of the representatives of the opposition parties in this House will be trampled on by you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know. The basic intention of Mr Khol and his group is to abolish the opposition in this House. Then, you think, we've come here, and we can lie to the people outside and decide here on the load packages. – That’s it: Requests from the opposition parties are annoying, urgent requests from the opposition parties are annoying, discussions with the members of the opposition are annoying. I ask you, Mr Klubobmann Khol: Are you for a totalitarian state? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Let me tell you the following: I am sure that you will not be restricted by me in my democratic rights as elected Members. That is what I am telling you in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do you think you can go? – If you want to, you can speak to Mr Habsburg in this way. Become with him You have to have a longer conversation now, I suppose, after what's been happening there. Because he has financed his election campaign with donations for children. A very interesting party, the Christian-social ÖVP in our country! Mr Kostelka said that Mr Schweitzer had not been in committee. – I remember: In the last plenary debate, he himself spoke on the wrong subject. He didn't even know in which film we were there; then he went back to his place with a high red head. This is your clubman! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is no longer able to conduct the business properly! It is clear to me why more and more frequent colleague Cap is called his successor. Everything in the field of transport – as your famous chairman said – should be dealt with under the spell. But we are already making ourselves a twin village, and now the second "Twenten Village" is in preparation, namely the Semmering Base Tunnel, which does not bring anything to anyone, costs billions and essentially only serves to give a few few money. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. That's white nonsense!]] Costs of 10 billion schilling are currently planned, although concerns about financing and the concerns about feasibility have been known for years. I want You recall that your current Chancellor has already expressed himself very critically. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: On the matter!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We are talking about transport questions, Mr Mertel! You, as a Carinthian Member of Parliament, should actually have the highest interest in the fact that Carinthia finally emerges from the periphery. We need the little-loved southeast team from Vienna, because it would really bring something. It was half the journey time from Klagenfurt to Vienna! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What, on the other hand, does the Semmering Base Tunnel bring? – 20 minutes and a dark hole! [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] It's really incredible! Rise Get down from your incredibly high horse once! Accept that for months – for months! – the better ideas come from the opposition parties! But they will step them with feet and cast them off! This cannot be the goal of a functioning democracy. I'm appealing to you: If you put transport questions on the agenda, you will also include the opposition parties' requests on this agenda!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6040	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those Members who want to take account of Mr Schweitzer's objections to the agenda – that is, to take points 13 to 16 from today's agenda – to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This rejects the objection. It remains with the agenda issued today, with some of the decisions of the National Council still necessary. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6079	I declare that the Green Club according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of today's written question by Mr Van der Bellen to the Federal Minister for the Interior on security authorities' supervisory powers. The urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 4619/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6103	I would also like to say that there is a written desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 4619/AB by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs to Mr Dr Kier's question on psycho-screening by the AMS Vienna. As already announced, a written question will be dealt with urgently, this short debate will be held following the urgent request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6128	I have the proposal to sum up the debates on points 1 to 4, 7 to 11 and 13 to 16 of the agenda today. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. Are objections raised against this proposal? - That's not the case. That's how it's approved. We're going into the agenda now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6155	I declare that consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the following procedure. A day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in speaking times as follows: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. The National Council is also to be found on this issue. Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1472 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Law on the Victims of Crime (1484 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1449 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Workers' Protection Act, Article VI of the Federal Law BGBl. No. 450/1994 and the General Social Security Act amended (1485 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 817/A (E) by Mr Mag. Helmut Peter and comrades concerning new criteria for the use of safety professionals and occupational doctors in the Workers' Protection Act (1486 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1462 of the Supplements): Construction Coordination Act – BauKG (1487 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6225	We are now discussing Agenda items 1 to 4, on which the debate is being held under one. Is there a need for reporting? This is not the case. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6256	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the summary agenda items 1 to 4, we are dealing with the crime victim law, the worker protection law and the related novelle, with the building work coordination law as well as with the request 817/A (E) of colleague Peter of the Liberal Forum. As a social spokesperson of my group, I would first like to deal with the crime victim law. Although we will agree with this in the present version, we would also like to say clearly and clearly that, from our point of view, it does not represent "the yellow of the egg". Taking into account what rehabilitation and care measures are already in place today in the area of criminal justice and rehabilitation, mental care, labour training and post-qualification, what will be contained in the crime victim law under this novel is better than the status quo – because, at last, the pre-financing for self-retaining for psychotherapist measures is planned – but it remains unsatisfying from our point of view. Important questions – such as those of the pain allowance, those of compensation also for non-working self-employed workers and others – remain unresolved. That is why my group colleague, Harald Ofner, will put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject and on this issue. I would also like the amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger to be adopted in committee. For there were two themes which I believe are urgently to be addressed. These are first of all complete psychological and psychotherapeutic measures – and their funding – for children who have become victims of crimes, especially sexual crimes. In addition, it was also planned to conclude a collective arrangement for psychological and social care with the umbrella associations in such a way as not to experience in this area the same as we have already achieved in the care sector: that, after a legal regulation which is well-established in itself, an exploding care costs for the caregiver will arise again a deficit which he himself has to finance and replace in the appropriate form. I would also like to say here, as was the case at the Committee's time, that I think that Mr Guggenberger's point of view is too profound a point of comparison. For many of the people concerned are dependent on the good will of the respective official in the decision-making process – otherwise, in the case of decisions based on a legal regulation with a right of claim. Moreover, in Austria, from Burgenland to Vorarlberg and from Upper Austria to Carinthia, we have to adopt very different rules and also different regulations depending on the social security institution. It's an unsatisfying state that no one understands. I therefore think that this would also be the case in a forthcoming novel. The second thing I want to deal with in the short time available to me is the Workers' Protection Act. Article 6 of the ASVG-Novelle promised that for businesses and establishments with less than 50 employees, the costs of the Republic of Austria are borne by the taxpayer. In the same way as the legislative text is now available, it is foreseen that no additional costs will be incurred for businesses, but that the AUVA funding will provide for these measures on an employer's side. Thus, from the German Federal Government's promise to use the taxpayer to pay for businesses and establishments with less than 50 employees, nothing can be seen in this legislative text. I would also like to say that the date of application of Article 6 with 1. In January 1999, the Social Committee had a clear need for action. Although a regulation has been found which now does not impose any additional costs on businesses, I believe that it has made several mistakes in beauty. I give the honourable Member the right to say that in the case of establishments a classification according to the frequency of risk and accident would be appropriate. We therefore also consider that his application should not be completed in the area of businesses with fewer than 50 employees. This has not been done satisfactoryly by the way in which the law is planned today, so we will refuse to approve the negative committee statement on his request, because we believe that this request has not been fully implemented and has not been implemented in our interest, and we would have wished that the appropriate occupational medical and safety care in the establishments would have been dependent on the statistical materials collected by the AUVA on the frequency of accidents in different professions, so that there would not be a ridiculous minimum number of visits per year – both for the establishments under 11 and for the establishments of 11 to 50 employees and, if the ÖV amendment has been carried out, for apprenticeships up to 53 employees. We still consider that there is a sharp discrepancy between the public economy and the private sector in the area of worker protection. I am grateful to the ministerial staff members that they have informed us in the Committee that the Ministry of Finance will, at the earliest next year – and as I know it as a learned Austrian – then probably only 5 minutes before the next election – present the corresponding proposal for the public authorities – the federal government, the countries and the municipalities. This will not make it possible to adopt a timely decision within this legislative period. Therefore, there will be three types of worker protection in Austria, which I think is unbearable. The public authorities, the countries and the municipalities will have no or only very much loose protection of workers, but will partly compete with the construction centres of the municipalities and the country or other private sector establishments; those establishments which are located in the large industry will have a worker protection which can also be considered well qualified according to international standards; and small businesses will now be forced to use employee protection officers or physicians who grant them AUVA. For who seriously believes that it will be possible for someone to pay for his business if AUVA carries the costs in today's competition for the additional costs of work and wages, to take one for his 10 or 20 employees, one for him and his works council more sympathetic, better and perhaps also closer, easily accessible occupational medicine and not the one provided by the AUVA for free? We have therefore tabled an amendment to the Committee so that the AUVA's free choice of doctors in this area would have been possible even if it had been paid. This request was unfortunately rejected by the government groups, ÖVP and SPÖ. I think that the last word should not have been spoken in this context. Because if free choice of doctors is to have constitutional validity in all areas of Austria, it is not clear to me why this should not apply at once in the field of worker protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6318	The next speaker is Mr Walter Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6339	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was in the spring of this year: The mother of a six-year-old child came to the Federal Social Office for Tyrol. This six-year-old child has become the victim of sexual abuse. It is obvious that a little child cannot and cannot handle such a thing without professional assistance. But this professional help has its price. We still had to reject this request in the Federal Social Office for Tyrol in the spring. At present, the local health insurance fund is still responsible for such cases, and everyone knows that it can pay only part of the actual costs. But with today's new law, we're going to fix it. ==References== Next year's victims of crime will also be entitled to psychotherapist assistance. That is an extremely important thing, and we are very pleased that we can adopt this law today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has already passed the Law on Crime Victims in 1972. That was a achievement of the Kreisky government at the time, and we were the first country in Europe to create such a legislative work. It provides for a number of benefits: a right to replacement for earnings, a right to replacement for loss of maintenance, a right to medical care, to health care and rehabilitation. Not least, a few months ago, we also made it clear with a novel of the Federal Caring Act that crime victims from 1st century onwards. January next year also have the right to care money. It is a stately range of services granted to the victims of crime. Finally, there has been a more precise licensing in the Committee on Social Affairs. Mrs. Fekter – she is not a member of this body – stopped us the day before with the announcement in the "Kronen Zeitung" that she would take action to pay pain money. – You can of course talk about everything. But the fact that a Member of the Economic and Social Committee, who will always come to the account if social policy demands are placed on the table of the House by our side, proposes something so careless and without any background knowledge of any cost, has already a little astounded us. [[Abg. Steibl: This has only confused you, because you have not brought it in. There is nothing else, my colleague.]] There are no other laws either: Neither social security law nor other social legislation provides for a possibility to benefit from pain benefit. Once again, the courts are responsible for this, where civil law has to be held to the perpetrator's culprits. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Oellinger has argued that the cost of psychotherapy should be increased considerably. – I recommend that you read the opinion of the psychotherapist association, Mr Oellinger. The psychotherapist association also believes that the rules we propose and how we will decide them today are entirely sufficient. And who is a more suspicious witness than the psychotherapist association? So, my dear colleague, your request you're going to make is certainly good, but he's inconsistency, he's out of place. We're taking care of it! I can conclude by saying: Around 300 victims of crime will benefit from this new law. And what is particularly important: It will be possible to make such claims retroactively. So summa summarum a good law, a good day – at least when it comes to making victims of crime better materially than before.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6384	Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6405	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are 300 people affected, Mr Guggenberger said at the end of his speech. This number is an estimate. I'd say, Even if it were 400, you probably wouldn't have argued otherwise. This is not about the number, but about something more basic. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: But to the order of magnitude!]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this proposal, but we are still pained by it. We agree because it is a step in the right direction, which leads to crime victim protection. But it hurts us, as I said, a lot, and I just want to light this up sketchily. If someone is physically injured in connection with a crime, the consequences will be covered in principle by our social security system. There may be a breach, and the victims of crime are protected in this respect. However, if there is a need for psychotherapeutic monitoring, care, treatment, this effect does not occur, and therefore now a law is made to counter it. However, this law is only necessary because we have not yet decided to accept seriously that psychotherapist treatment is something people have a claim to, whether they are victims of crime or not. If we had decided in the area of social security law to treat treatments of this kind differently, and if there were satisfactory contractual relations between psychotherapists and social security providers, then we would not need these novels. Through these novelties, we split the patientship of psychotherapists into two groups: in those whose claim we recognize because they are victims of crime, and in those whose claim we do not recognize – and I mean social security – because they are not victims of crime. That is, there is a need for psychotherapeutic treatment, which we recognize, and those we do not recognize. That's a serious design mistake! This does not change the fact that it is good for crime victims to have these opportunities. They may not be quite well-designed – Mr Oellinger will apply for it – but that is, as it were, another "construction site". The main building site is that we are dealing here with a system failure, a breach of the rights of patients to social security schemes. We should actually fix a deficit in social security law at this interface in the field of crime victims, because it is particularly obvious when crime victims are abandoned, and because there is an additional public-law link here for the victims of crime – I agree with you. Only: In principle – and this may be a merit from the early years of Kreisky, colleague Guggenberger, as you have quoted the year 1972 – you have to ask yourself the following question: Is crime victim protection a social matter in the sense of social security, welfare and so on, or is it not actually a judicial matter in the sense of: How do we deal with crime victims? And if we find that there are many areas which, because of the fact that we have a significant social security system, do not have a direct need for benefits, because people who are physically injured are treated in the hospital because of the health insurance protection they have, and the social security institution then has a right to justice on the perpetrator, so that there are no direct support problems with the victim, then that does not mean that there is no judicial question of dealing with crime victims. For there are also other claims in this field, for example, those of the colleague Fekter in this discussion – inadmissibly, I say – expressly the subject of pain money. The question of bringing claims for damages in certain areas of crime is also something like this, because pain money is nothing but a compensation for pain suffered. That is why, of course, this does not fit into this law at all. But with regard to the question of compensation for crime victims, which is too short because they are entitled to justice, but the culprit is either volatile or does not have the necessary means to make compensation, this solidarity compensation should be projected into judicial law and discussed: How do we deal with the fines that we impose on offenders, who are often significantly high and who are driven in with acribie? Would that not also be a fund of solidarity compensation? If the same EIA, which has requested this payment of pain, behaves strangely in the area of the perpetrator's compensation, which is also an element of compensation, then this would have to be debated in the context of a judicial debate. I am therefore saying: We will agree to this proposal, but it is a difficult heart because it covers something from the system that is inadequate, namely the treatment of patients who need psychotherapeutic treatment. I would like to turn briefly to a second area of the now under a negotiated point, namely the Construction Work Coordination Act. The Building Work Coordination Act represents the implementation of an EU directive – we have been sparse in this regard for a number of years now – and it is system-absorbing, I say. We are creating a new law to implement an EU directive, a new law that does not fit so well with our labour protection conditions, because in many respects they are in fact quite well formed. This Directive lays down a minimum standard which in some countries does not even exist. This directive contains things which we do not yet have in detail, but which could perhaps have been accommodated in the Workers' Protection Act by an intelligent novel or building rights by intelligent adaptations if the directive had already been complied with. But there is no need for a new, specific law that interferes with other rights of protection, which ultimately leads to an increase in inconsistency – and hopefully also the quality of protection, but I am not even so sure of that. One thing is fixed for me: If you need a separate coordinator for safety at a construction site, if there are more than two different professionals working there, this will lead to a boost in the area of construction of the house towards the increase in blackwork. Because you have black work on the construction, you don't need a coordinator either. And it will quickly become apparent that by the method you use you will build another steering instrument, so that black construction becomes even more attractive. That's a mistake! You need to specify the responsibilities, you need to change the building standards a lot, you may also need to do some instructions in the field of construction supervision. But just so that we can finally stop – anyway, four years too late! – meeting the directive, making a whole new law, we will not be able to agree to it, even if you suspect that we are going to cross an EU directive. We are not going across the EU directive at all. On the other hand, we do not go far enough to continue to increase the flood of laws, not to improve the protection of undeclared work and, on the other hand, to create unnecessary costs, just so that you can say at last in Brussels, even if it is four years too late: Now we've finally done it! I would like to know whether all the colleagues who say so often that they are against the flood of law will now vote in favour. Probably it is! On Sundays, at the next party event, they will again speak against the flood of law, on Thursdays they will have passed a law more. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6441	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6462	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The novelle on the crime victim law is certainly an important and, in fact, long-standing step towards improving the situation of victims of crime. Especially in the case of violent or sexual offences, not only does the body, but above all also the soul harm, and it is urgently necessary that immediately thereafter therapy and help be started. In this situation, however, it is also urgently necessary to have the opportunity to choose a trusted doctor, to choose a therapist, because it is not least sympathy and confidence that the therapy leads to the necessary healing or improvement of the situation. That is why this bill should be very positive. The fact that a cost allowance is paid up to three times is very positive. If Mr Oellinger has said that this should be done very generously for children in particular, the ÖVP agrees with his view. I believe that we must soon see whether this framework is sufficient for children, especially abused children or children who have been exposed to abuses. The approach is very good, but we have to keep an eye on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All parties agree that the urgently needed emotional aid should not fail in the financial burden and lack of money. It must also be pointed out that this is not only for victims, but also for survivors of violent crime victims, this therapeutic aid should be possible. It is also important to stress that this therapeutic aid is not only limited to certain criminal offences, but also that the act is threatened with a criminal measure of at least six months' imprisonment, and that the act – and I believe we must still see if it is really effective – has been deliberately committed. The focus, as has been said, is on children, children who have become victims of abuse or sexual abuse. According to the family ministry, 25,000 children were victims of sexual violence last year. There were 268 convictions. Therefore, Minister Bartenstein's action plan is in the direction of putting even more measures against child abuse and also against child pornography on the Internet, to support and welcome from us. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this amendment is not sufficient for us by the EIA, because we have wished that the question of pain compensation should also be taken into account and resolved in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a pity that we could not find a regulation in this respect with our coalition partner, the SPÖ – in this case not so much "partner". Not least an ORF interview with two victims of one perpetrator with the same crime, but in two countries, a few kilometers apart, namely in Switzerland and in Vorarlberg, has shown how different the situation of the victims is, and there was too little support for the victim in Austria. I believe that this has shown that there is still a great need for follow-up both in the field of justice and in the social field as part of the protection of victims. Another step would be pain money. Our demand is to pay the penalty for the victim from the crime victim's law, of course linked to the rights of justice to the perpetrator. I could also imagine that in the area of pain money, it is not only about physical pain, but also about mental pain, for example after sexual offences. That's what we should talk about. Mrs Hostasch, you said that it was the Community's duty to help victims of violence and to ensure the best possible care for them. That is absolutely our conviction. But in order to achieve this, we also need to negotiate the problem of pain money in the near future. We would have wished that this would have been possible already. I would like to come to another point. A disadvantage of the crime victim law is also that the associated rights of the victims are not known enough. According to statistics, there are 38 000 people who have become victims of violence in Austria. And if one draws attention to the information of the Federal Social Office, it is noted that there are only 100 people who are constantly cared for and supported by the Crime Sacrifice Act, and about 100 individual cases are added annually. This law should also help victims to know at least what rights – they have too few rights or very few rights – to them. I believe that we must work together to ensure that this becomes increasingly known. I know, though, that the executive is called upon to pass on the relevant information, but in such a situation, right after one has become victim of a deed, one usually has another in one's mind or does not realize it either. The first legal information in court is also an approach to point it out, because the benefits are not so small. There is, after all, a replacement for earnings of up to 30 000 s, with which the loss of income is to be compensated. There is support for medical care, medical care, the provision of relief services and also the entitlement of survivors to maintenance costs up to funeral costs. I would like to point out in this context and also thank for the fact that private organizations, such as the White Ring, also provide very valuable assistance to the victims, very quickly, and very well informed. And I would also like to address the statement of the White Ring – I believe that Mr Kier has already mentioned this – after which, in Austria, the first creditor and the victim is only the second creditor when it comes to fines from the state of Austria. So the state first receives its money in the event of fines before the victim is compensated. I think that even in this context, a little improvement would be made by the pain money. I wish that we, as a government partner in the near future, before the next election, will come to a solution with regard to pain money, which is not only a requirement of the EIA but, above all, one of the victims.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6534	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6555	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said about the revision of the crime victim law. I can also join Mr Guggenberger, who meant that you should not use this novelle – as it was done – for licensing. I hope I understood this correctly, Mr Guggenberger, and you didn't mean me, I hope. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: No, I didn't mean you!]] I would also like to expressly say that, because as great as the law was described – and it is undoubtedly a progress – it is not in its financial dimension either. We are talking about 3 million schillings, which are reasonably made available for victims of crime. So let's leave the church in the village again! It would be necessary – and here I am with Mr Kier – and also useful – and I hope that my colleague, Mr Guggenberger, will give me his approval by Nicken, too, that those improvements which we will now decide on for victims of crime will be taken very soon to finally enter into this overall agreement between the main association of social security providers and psychotherapists and to come to a solution in this regard that not only creates acceptable conditions for victims of crime, but also for all the other patients in need of therapy. And I'll repeat: The fact that we are now so illustrious in connection with the victims of crime, we have already sent it on the way, and it is actually somewhere between and to these institutions that it has not yet come to an acceptable, also acceptable, health policy regime which makes the relationship between social security institutions and the sick acceptable. Our proposal, which we have already put in the committee in this context, does not seem to be anything but to take advantage of this opportunity to conclude a contract - point one - because it can also play a role in the cost of the victims of crime, because it is better to negotiate, Mr Guggenberger, if you can do everything together. Point two: Our request does not provide for an exception to this threefold cost compensation for children, an exception in so far as children are victims of crime, because they are often not strangers but live in the family community, they find a particularly delicate and sensitive situation. First of all, for financial reasons, they depend on the parents to allow them access to therapy if there are still costs. Secondly, they are also largely dependent on the consent of the parents due to mental dependence, which of course comes back with the financial considerations, and thirdly, I think I only need to read the sentence that is reflected in the opinion of the children's friends, but I do not have it now: These victims of crime are, in principle, not reasonable. And that's what I'm standing for. In this case, Mr Puttinger, all the reasons that speak for self-retaining therapy – there are also reasons to promote the motivation of those involved – should be ruled out in this case, and it should be guaranteed by us, by Parliament, that children have no cost, not a schilling, and of course not their parents. It is only this exception for the children, and I am therefore pleased to note the motion for a resolution which we have already discussed in committee and which, unfortunately, has been rejected by the government parties – in this case, I would say, very ignorant – and this plenary session. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this does not cost anything, but it would be a clear signal that, without prejudice to the fact that there is still self-retaining here, there is a clear regulation for children, which at least ensures children: She's not supposed to meet. And the second part of the request concerning the fixed tariff agreement with the main association has already been approved by Mr Guggenberger by Nicken. I would, of course, like to speak not only about the crime victim law, but also about the other materials. The Greens were always one of the political groups who demanded very vehemently, Mrs Bundesminister, in the Workers' Protection Act: It has to go faster! We are stingy with the implementation! And I repeat: We are still extremely sparse with the implementation of worker protection, then when it comes to public service. We have now heard in committee with joy: This is where a law moves to Parliament. At some point in the beginning of next year, this Parliament is to hurry up and approach it here – almost! – create the same conditions for public service. Not the same, almost the same, was promised us, and I know there will be no equal conditions. We have a problem with this in the future, and we will also address it accordingly. But to this part of worker protection, which concerns small and micro-enterprises, only a few remarks. Unfortunately, this is not an implementation of outstanding regulations for micro and micro-enterprises, as we would have wished. First of all, after these long deadlines, which you have already given as a majority of this law, it takes another two to three years, until all the small and micro-enterprises – oh yes, it is so, Mrs Federal Minister – have been committed. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That's not true!]] Because there are a lot of micro- and micro-enterprises that must be committed first. Two to three years are therefore also delayed after the entry into force of these provisions for some of them. The second point, however, is the much more serious one. There are serious differences between micro and small businesses. Whether this is a micro-enterprise in the graphic field, whether it is a micro-enterprise in the form of a metal-bud or tobacco-trafic, makes a serious difference in terms of worker protection and what it would be possible to verify and commit. And this difference is unfortunately not sufficiently regulated in this law. There are no clearly defined minimum time limits, and we still have the problem of not distinguishing between the types of establishments to be committed. And I really think that's the crux of this innovation. There is another problem, however, and this concerns the institution which is primarily responsible for the protection of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises, namely the General Insurance Institute. I can only repeat, once again, that I do not consider the General Insurance Institute to be ideal for ensuring the appropriate protection of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises on this type of scheme. I think this is a problem. The accident insurance institution operates very good accident hospitals, yes, but the accident insurance institution has not managed to operate in the preventive field over the last ten to twenty years. The accident insurance institution has not made any effort to do what the German professional cooperatives have been doing in this area for years: to provide businesses with extensive information, with campaigns, with actions on better prevention, and to place real value on the fact that this is also happening in the firms. This is also a voluntary representation in the Federal Republic of Germany, and it works excellently there, saying that it has to be made available much more funds than it has ever been in Austria. The amazing thing – I repeat it again, Mrs Federal Minister – is that in certain areas we seem to be better than the Federal Republic of Germany in terms of occupational diseases. That is not true, however, but it is really amazing that the accident insurance institution has not made any effort in this regard, unlike the Federal Republic of Germany, where health awareness has been awakened and promoted. We experience the results again and again in cases such as the Mozarteum. Although the accident insurance institution is responsible for this, I would once say, not directly responsible, but we experience it again and again: [[Federal Minister Hostasch: I believe so too!]] There is no adequate awareness in Austria as regards the protection of workers in respect of the environment in establishments. There are no institutions here that would sufficiently support, support and promote the work of worker protection. And this is the accusation that I am making to this institution an accident insurance institution, which now has a great responsibility, and I am not convinced that the proposed solution is an optimal one, because in fact a little more freedom for the protection of workers would have been more useful. Of course, there are well-functioning occupational medical centres, there are well-functioning individual care by doctors, but all this – this quality of worker protection, which has developed very slowly, through the occupational medical centers, through the doctors who organize worker protection in the establishments – runs through this close connection to the accident insurance institution – I see the money problems of the accident insurance institution already come – danger of being again minimized to a level that does not benefit businesses. It does not do them well, therefore, because perhaps the efforts that have been seen and undertaken by large enterprises have been necessary and made, and have done so in a reasonable way, because they save themselves costs, are being carried out by the small and micro-enterprises – and it also speaks of this change in volumes – at a level which unfortunately results in the fact that the protection of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises is not better or as well organized as in large-scale enterprises. These small and micro-enterprises, however, would need it more urgently than the large-scale enterprises themselves, even as far as the number of accidents of small and small-scale enterprises is concerned. But unfortunately we do not provide sufficient quality. My suspicion is: The accident insurance institution itself will not be very interested in ensuring this quality to a sufficient extent, because that is a cost issue. The costs are paid by accident insurance and employers' contributions, and so far, unfortunately, on the employer's side, I have had to miss the fact that workers' protection, health protection in the establishments relieves these even in terms of costs. And that's the big problem. It was a wrong answer you gave in this area. Finally, a comment on the Construction Coordination Act. I can understand much of what Mr Kier said about this. It is a bit too bureaucratic, but these fears that, through this law, through this attempt to coordinate a bureaucratic regulation – and all that is connected with existing regulations, is, of course, bureaucracy – I cannot share a new thrust on black work. My concern is rather that I have difficulty imagining the person taking over the office of a coordinator. This should be a well-paid person, because this coordinator has been entrusted with many tasks and responsibilities which have actually been found more directly and directly on the employer's side in the past. That is to say, from an employee's point of view – that will make Mr Nürnberger sure – every building work coordinator should be warned against taking up this profession because there is a great deal of responsibility to it. But perhaps, in this case, the trade union will also succeed in finding an excellent collective contractual arrangement for the construction work coordinators, which ensures that the people will also receive financial compensation for this immense responsibility which they receive. I would not like to be such a building coordinator on a large construction site, because the responsibility he receives under this law is already very high and is actually too great a discharge for the many unexplained responsibilities – especially on large construction sites – for the employer side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6638	The motion for a resolution, which has been read by Mr Öllinger, has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. It has now come up with a report by Mrs Hostasch, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6663	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, allow me to make a few comments on these three legislative proposals. It is the crime victim law in discussion, and I believe it is important to point out that Austria has been the first European country to adopt a crime victim law in 1972 and thus to do a European pioneer act. I think it is also important to refer once to such an initiative in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Gatterer has already referred to the benefits of this crime-offering law, and I therefore do not want to repeat it, but I would like to stress that this was the motivation of the House during the resolution in February of this year and also of my opinion that it has succeeded in developing and improving the crime-offering law. I am therefore very glad that we in the House today have the opportunity to adopt this law. The content and the improvements made by your contributions to the debate have already been addressed, and I would therefore only like to allow myself to know something from the opinions we have received on this law. All the opinions were positive, all the assessment bodies welcomed the fact that these measures should now be adopted, but I should like to quote the opinion of the Austrian Federation for Psychotherapy, because I believe that there has been a clear position here in a very large way. I therefore allow myself to quote from this opinion: "The present revision of the crime victim law is a good act and enables severely traumatized victims to receive financial support for necessary psychotherapy. This is all the more necessary, as many victims are unable to work or disabled for a certain period of time precisely because of the traumatisation they have suffered. Provenly – and this is the second positive aspect of this novelle – psychotherapy is able to achieve improvement and healing in so-called post-traumatic disorders. Often severe mental symptoms are now recognized as an expression of the emotional injury suffered. It should be noted that, as a rule, short-term psychotherapist interventions are necessary, so that the costs can be calculated realistically. In summary, it should be noted that the Austrian Association for Psychotherapy fully supports this legislative innovation." – End of the quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very clear from the experts who are primarily concerned with those concerned, how comprehensive and qualitatively good this law is in its further development. Allow me also to say something about Mr Kier's comment that we now have two categories of patients in the care of health insurance. So I believe that it is only too correct – and I am in favour of it – that we also make more use of crime victims in the field of health care than we do in the case of normal patients, and I therefore think it is right that we have also given special protection to victims in the Crime Sacrifice Act. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, because, in your contributions too, the question of the payment of pain and the claims for damages has been addressed and the subject of discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs has also been the following: I know that it is very difficult to argue, especially when it comes to victims, victims of crime, especially children, whether they are factual, legal or even legal, but I think it is precisely the task of the Members of Parliament, the task of the House to have an objective and legal, proper discussion here. Therefore, allow me, in my position on the considerations of the ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, to say that this proposal, which I believe has not been very depleted and which has raised the subject very punctually, has provided for damage claims to be fulfilled by the State in social policy. The benefit of pain benefit in social law would put the applicable legal order on the head and create a prejudice whose consequences are not yet projected. [[Abg. Gaugg: Pre-financing!]] If we continue to reflect on this demand consistently, the state, ladies and gentlemen, would have to pay pain money in a number of different cases. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why, Mrs. Minister?]] At present, it is neither a proposal nor a basis for consultation that would deal with a demarcation, a definition or the issue of financing. I therefore believe that the Committee has rightly debated the need to discuss these issues as a priority in the Committee on Justice, and not the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the competent parliamentary body, in order to make a proposal for an agreement or a prejudice on this issue, which I consider to be an important issue. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to make a few comments on the second law, which is under discussion, namely the Workers' Protection Act. The aim of this law, which was fully achieved from my point of view, but not only from my point of view, was to significantly improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in relation to the protection of workers. With this - in my opinion - major innovations in the Workers' Protection Act we are getting closer and closer to these demands and have thereby also strengthened workers' protection in this so important area of our economy. We establish an efficient care model, which, I believe, is the quality of this new access, which, very much valued by Mr Oellinger, individualises better on the specific protection requirements in the individual establishments than we have in the current legal situation. This ensures a high quality of care for workers – better than we now have them in the legislative text – and it is also achieved that so-called unproductive standing times of care professionals are avoided. An instrument has been found to work with a more flexible, needs-oriented and – I say – close to customers – I can work my customers in the sense of employees, but also businesses. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this innovation also represents an earlier implementation of safety and occupational medical care in small businesses as originally planned. [[Abg. Oillinger: Because we were already so far back there!]] I am right to say that we all had the common wish that the overall provisions on workers' protection should be implemented at shorter stages, but now we have achieved that implementation can take place earlier than the current legal situation, and that is what I see as a clear progress for the colleagues working there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Another aspect that is hardly mentioned in the discussion is that this additional provision of care by experts from the General Insurance Institute and external experts in the safety service, but also in the field of occupational medicine, creates additional employment opportunities. This is one of our objectives, namely to create as much employment as possible in the context of our economy as possible and thus to take a step towards the elimination of unemployment in this area. Let me make one more comment. I believe that it is important for many laws, especially those relating to the protection of workers, not to have theoretical formulations in law, namely those which are convincing on paper, but do not prove themselves in practice. I therefore believe that the access we have chosen with this novel is a creative, innovative and demand-oriented solution that benefits the person concerned, not only workers but also employers. I have been able to point out on a number of occasions – but I do not wish to bother you again with figures – that worker protection is not only for the benefit of workers, but also for the benefit of businesses and, overall, for the benefit of the entire economy, because it can prevent burdens on all parts. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Oellinger! You have addressed the tasks of the General accident insurance institution. I'd like to invite you to take a closer look at this. I would like to send you the material published by the General Insurance Institute for the care of businesses to support employees in the companies. The General Insurance Institute also has accident hospitals, but it also sets up a lot of accident prevention, prevention and accident prevention activities. If you look at the comprehensive offer and the comprehensive activities of AUVA, you can see that it is a social insurance company that is in great responsibility. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few brief comments on the Construction Coordination Act – with reference to the contribution of Mr Kier. This law provides for the appointment of a coordinator at the planning stage of construction sites where workers are employed by several companies, in order to ensure from the outset that misplannings, mis-coordinations and mis-decisions are prevented, but thus also accidents that are caused to the detriment of both entrepreneurs working there and, in particular, to the damage of colleagues employed there. I expect the implementation of this law, which is the implementation of a directive of the European Union, to minimise the potential for danger, and to prevent the uncoordinated co-ordination and succession of various construction companies from being in one place at a time. I believe that each of you has already repeatedly been confronted with an uncoordinated approach by various construction sites. In my opinion, this could also reduce accidents in the construction industry. In addition to the benefits for workers, employers are also expected to benefit because coordination also entails cost reductions. A better process can be chosen in terms of timing and financial planning, but the construction process is better understood both for the client and for the contractors, but I could mention many other advantages. – I believe this is an instrument to increase the safety of construction sites. Perhaps you have been following the fact that since yesterday the trade union day of the Bau/Holz union took place at the Austrian Center in Vienna. This is precisely the question of safety at construction sites, the protection of workers, but also the coordinated operation of undertakings on a construction site is a crucial factor to be solved in a satisfactory way for those concerned. I believe that we have taken a significant step forward in this legislative process, both in terms of the worker protection law and in terms of the building work coordination law, on a successful path.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6749	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6770	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can do it very briefly because, as it were, the woman minister cut off the broad field quite a bit. I would choose the title "more practice and less theory in worker protection" for the amendment to the Workers' Protection Act. It is now mainly those workplaces with up to 50 employees, where, instead of consulting, the AUVA provides for medical and safety assistance. It is not about minimum time spent, and I particularly like the mix of basic care and incident care. That is to say, it is aimed at the specific protection requirements of individual establishments, for example, when it comes to accidents at work or new working procedures. We are making a permanent commitment to the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are to be particularly protected and supported, and this happens to this novel, because it is a free provision of care by accident insurance companies. But you have the choice, because if you do not want to, then you can, of course, order preventive services yourself and, of course, at your own expense. More safety and health at work, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be estimated high enough. The protection of workers is not only for businesses and the economy, it is primarily for workers, of course, but now there is a completely different awareness of it from the service providers. You just need to look at the numbers. In 1994, the economic damage caused by accidents at work was around 30 billion schilling. Following the entry into force of the Workers' Protection Act, this damage has already been reduced by 3.3 billion schilling by the year 1996, and the cost reduction on the business side has amounted to 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In January 2000 the AUVA provides 330 million schilling a year for these measures, then I must say that is a good thing. Even better, I find the goal of spending 10 percent of the total budget on prevention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Return to the Committee's deliberations: That's where I got myself a little bit with colleagues Feurstein in the wool. The limit is 50 employees. Mr Feurstein wanted 55 employees for those small businesses that are slightly above them – I'm just reporting it – because they employ apprentices or favored disabled people. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I'm full of that, and you were against it! That's what I want in the Minutes!]] You are still speaking, Mr President. I therefore disagreed with that – I say that with all the clarity – because, I believe, we have done a lot for those companies that employ apprentices. But I was happy to contribute to the compromise with 53 employees – that was the highest number in me. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: A bad compromise!]] – That’s what you’re saying, I’m different! But I must also say that there will always be problems with ceilings in general. Individual letters of intervention show the attitude of some: If you get up to 50 employees for free, but I have 51, then I have to release two! – This is the problem that always occurs at borders. The same thing we had in the promotion of apprentices, namely that promises were suddenly no longer respected, and only then, when money has been paid, have the apprentices been taken up. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: What promises? From whom?]] I would like to write to everyone in the root book: The benefits of investments in worker protection are always higher than costs. This has been demonstrated several times by international studies. I am already busy in time, but still I do not want to mention that there was something to be done about it. We talked about workplaces with more than 50 employees. This would include all trade chains, insurance companies, banks and so on, which operate small branches. Now this has also been clarified, and that seems very important to me. We were bombarded with interventions on the priority involvement of external preventive workers. I welcome the Committee's establishment and, above all, the cross-reference to continuing training, to quality of care, to criteria such as economy, efficiency and effectiveness. A useful model of cooperation and cooperation between accident insurance companies, the preventive professionals employed there on the one hand and the occupational and safety centres and established occupational physicians and professional or industrial safety professionals on the other should be organised. For this cooperation, there must be cornerstones such as regional anchorage, quality assurance measures and flexible contractual bases. But it must not, as it has been said several times in writing, give this secondary job. I have my problems with that. Some have written that AUVA would only be willing to conclude contracts if so many hours of work per week can be done. If the doctor's chamber speaks of 1,800 qualified doctors, I must say that this is probably a majority of those doctors who, in addition to their practice, besides other tasks, want to do this work in the context of a secondary job with a few hours, and that cannot be the point. Today's novels include unique regulations across Europe. She creates jobs, as Mrs Minister has already said, and is a crucial factor in the productivity and competitiveness of businesses. The two classes in the protection of workers are thus virtually abolished. If a similar workers' protection has been announced for the public service, I must say that I can only welcome it. For the LiF application only one comment: The specific hazard potential was desired as a measurement size. I would say that, although we did not agree to the request, I think that it is a little in this direction. Another sentence on the crime victim law: I do not understand that these points are being dealt with under one, but the agenda was agreed. My colleague, Mr Gatterer, was pleased to have a very positive opinion on this novel. I therefore find it sad that the debate on the payment of pain and the compensation for damages, which is simply included in the judicial area and not in the Social Committee, has gone down as a result of the fact that this law is positive and important, and that it actually welcomes everyone. I can only say to Mr Oillinger's request: A fixed tariff agreement would be a restriction on the right of parties to the contract. If one says that children are not complacent, then I must say, of course, that is not reasonable to them. But in view of the fourfold payment of psychotherapy, I must say that there can be no restraint either, because we should not talk about driving the price. A well-known habilitated psychotherapist said: No therapy hour can be worth 2,000 s!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6841	I call Mr Gaugg. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6863	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The last committee meeting was shaped, as it were, by scenes of a marriage before divorce. This is being played down a little bit today, but it has been tremendously hard in the balcon, because the ÖVP delegates have a very distant relationship to the social and the SPÖ delegates are slowly, but are moving from the perpetrator's protection to the protection of victims. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Please go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Are you the parliamentarian of another country?]] For under Broda everything was done to protect the perpetrator, and now we are finally so far as to protect the victims of crime. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Are you living in another country?]] It is amazing that the Federal Minister, in her statement, meant that it would have any consequences for you to examine it only if you were prepared to pre-finance pain payments. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Are you for it or are you against it?]] This is no more than pre-financing. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Is the FPÖ for it or against it?]] Just as the line of the EIA is, it has promised, it will put forward a motion for a resolution. I am now asking where this motion for a resolution lies, to which we can give our approval. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Tell me what you are for!]] The so-called coalition is also comprehensible when Mr Guggenberger talks about the ignorance of the ÖVP delegates and the like. I would recommend: As soon as possible, solve this "marriage" because it does not bring anything to the citizens of our country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the government template of the Workers' Protection Act, to which we will not give our consent in this form, it must be said that first of all the public service is not taken into account again. This means, therefore, that the service provider itself takes up action again and in no way shows a comprehensive willingness to involve the public service. Free medical and safety care is a necessary measure, but this law does not provide for minimum times, no qualified and quantified action in the one or two-year period and no consideration for the risks to workers. It was promised to bear the costs by the federal government, and now you have postponed it to AUVA. That is why we have tabled a motion for amendment which would include small businesses with fewer than eleven employees, just as there would have to be a cost replacement for private economic preventive services, which the employer chooses. But a greeting from the "Holy Bureaucratius" from Brussels is probably this building work coordination law. You don't know what you want. You don't know what to do. One simply decides because one understands an EU directive. Minister! We have essentially a functioning worker protection law. We have a product liability law. We have defined the responsibility of those who work on construction sites. – Now I wonder: What should this construction site coordinator bring – with the exception of additional costs? – The road service in Lower Austria counts the additional costs for this measure with around 20 million schilling. This is a small amount, considering that, for example, the total cost of construction in Austria would be increased by 0.7 percent. It is also not clear whether this building site coordinator has a permanent duty of presence. What happens to him? What's he doing? Who's guarding the guards? We have labour inspectors, we have trade inspectors. If, for example, employees of a roofing company do not get hooked up on the roof, the responsibility of the affected workers and the employer concerned is borne. Now I'm wondering, Is the coordinator still guilty? Is he connected to the construction site almost, or is he supposed to be anywhere at the same time? Or is it just a job creation for someone you don't know exactly where to go? – In addition, there are circumvention possibilities in the law, because if a general contractor is ordered, there is no need for a construction site coordinator. I'll tell you one more thing: Rising bureaucratic commitments promote the coup. If one implements this measure, as it stands in the law, then every single house builder is affected by it, then there is massive cost increases at the construction sites. They also say again and again that it is necessary for the victims of crime to check whether the prepayment of pain is possible at all. In this regard, the Vienna opinion is interesting in so far as it is prejudicial to your law, which you present today for decision-making. I therefore believe that this is a massive accusation, which should first be examined before a red tape is introduced, even though we are constantly hearing about the reduction of the administrative burden, the reduction of red tape. In fact, you increase the pressure on businesses and workers in this country instead of reducing it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6971	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e6992	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague, Mr Gatterer, has already commented on the crime victim law, I would like to focus above all on the innovation of the Workers' Protection Act. I believe that this is actually a soft-setting change in the law. As a matter of principle, the legal and practical implementation of Article 6 of the Law on Workers' Protection in 1994 is in the form of a policy which, as I believe, is really heading towards equality of position between accident insurance on the one hand and workers' protection on the other. Both have the same objectives in the prophylactic field, such as health care, occupational disease prophylaxis and prevention of accidents at work. It should therefore be achieved and implemented in practice that the establishments do not pay twice, once for accident insurance and once for occupational workers' protection, although this is initially limited to farms with up to 50 employees. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore say 'at once', because I believe, quite openly, that we do not afford to do so in the long term and that we cannot believe that the companies with more than 50 employees are paying twice for the same purpose that we naturally accept, namely, health care, occupational health protection, occupational health prophylaxis. What we decide today as a model for businesses with up to 50 employees is for us and for me a model for the future. We will have to take further steps in this regard in the future. I cannot explain why he has to pay twice for the same purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, it is a very soft decision-making procedure that we are making today, because for the first time we implement this principle for 95 percent of our businesses – about so many of them fall into this category. Ladies and gentlemen! Second point: I think we must also note the following: If these concerns, such as health care and the prevention of occupational diseases, are so important to us, we cannot tolerate, in the long run, the fact that we have a two-class company of workers. On the one hand, we have the employees in private enterprises, for which all this applies, and on the other hand we have the employees in the public service, for which all this does not apply! I am therefore very glad that we have already had a review of an employee protection law for the public service. I very much hope that the discussions between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance will quickly lead to concrete results. One thing we cannot do in the budget despite the stabilisation rate and the thinking of costs: that the Minister of Finance may say that the enterprises have to be able to afford all of this, in the public service we cannot afford all of this. – We will certainly not tolerate that, ladies and gentlemen. We demand that a measure be measured here. We demand the same rules for the public service as for each private company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] Third point: Ladies and gentlemen! If we look around today in the field of precautionary medicine and health care, we can say that of all areas of health care in the field of occupational occupational medicine, the best and most widely trained is the best. I would very much like to see health policy in the other areas, i.e. social medicine, nutrition medicine and environmental medicine, as far as we are in this area. One thing, of course, is not very reasonable, I must say: The establishments must comply with all the provisions. For example, I call that the noise limit of 85 decibels. Hardly does the young employee leave the company, he can be in a disco with 90 or 95 decibels for hours. It can't be. We need to force health awareness and health information accordingly. We need to think all-round, and we can't just say that the companies are supposed to do something. Health is to a high degree also in the field of self-responsibility. We should also confess to this, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Koppler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] This is also an area of personal responsibility. Finally, following the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to say something about those who believe that health care is an automatic machine, where one throws in one billion above and there is more health below. I have always expressed the opinion: More doctors, more medicines, more hospitals do not automatically mean more health. We need to think more strongly in these prophylactic categories. We from the economy and we from the People's Party send a signal in the right direction with today's consent. As a further step, when we think of the turn of the year, of the next century, of the next millennium, we must achieve that for all farms, there is no two-class society and all farms are treated in accordance with the same basic rules.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7062	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7084	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Dr. stupidly, I can only agree with your remarks. We just have to do more now. The range between the companies with up to 50 employees and those with less than 50 employees is really cost-effective. We now have to consider what the framework conditions are and what we say to the companies. We say 51. Staff starts with an additional cost package of approximately 150 000 to 200 000 S. My business falls into the size of having to implement this worker protection law, but I do not really see why we are doing this in Austria in a bureaucratic way, which could actually have the same effect in quite other market economy ways. It can also be imagined that workers' protection is organised in such a way that clear safety standards are defined, clear responsibilities are defined and companies in which there are fewer accidents, for example, pay lower contributions to AUVA. If this general accident insurance institution, which is fed only by entrepreneurship contributions, has surpluses, you say now we take these surpluses and use them differently. Have you ever considered that you could not use these surpluses differently, but also reduce the contributions? - That would be an exciting alternative, wouldn't it? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The industry has done a very interesting study, which you certainly know. The pro-factor study, which examined the question of the cost of bureaucracy in businesses and in society as a whole, concludes that the bureaucracy is already 5 to 7 percent of the gross domestic product. Other countries have legal impact assessments because they consider exactly what laws cost, not only as Mr Khol recently told us, for the territorial authorities, but for the citizens, for the enterprises. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have explained to us today how to ensure job growth. They have said quite literally that this new worker protection law brings higher employment. That is to say, more safety professionals, more occupational physicians, more inspectors, more inspectors bring additional jobs. You're right. Mrs Reitsamer has yet to say that this will also increase productivity and competition. So now we are coming to a very worrying economic area; I must not use another word for it, the President said. So you create jobs because you create more jobs for public servants. Last year, Mrs Federal Minister, despite all the oaths of this government, the number of public servants has increased by 6,702. In contrast to other countries, the number of public employees is increasing instead of falling. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hostasch.]] – The safety professionals and doctors are not, the inspectors and inspectors very well. That's the point. We have built a system that makes you still more expensive, because you bring in more and more complications. Today, you create a relief for businesses with up to 50 employees, but all those companies that have more than 50 employees are the "mixers", as stupidly said. They pay twice, they pay on the one hand the 1.4 percent service contribution – the employment-reducing additional wage costs are not reduced – and on the other hand they pay their own costs for the area of worker protection and occupational medicine. It is really fascinating for me to understand how the government parties in this House are constantly reaching out to the bureaucratic solution and not prefer the market economy solution. Why don't you define responsibilities? – Workers protection must be a culture in the enterprises, and the entrepreneurs you do not understand for humanistic reasons should understand at least for cost reasons. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If farms fail to comply with regulations, you still have the possibility of control by the labour inspectorates, but create a financial incentive! Faith You do not want all of this to be done by yourself if you set the right conditions! They don't set the right conditions. You have 132 sections in the Workers' Protection Act, and for the more than 21.5 percent of employees in the public service, you have a law with 13 paragraphs, Mrs. Federal Minister! Why are you so cheap? – The Workers' Protection Act for Public Servants contains 13 paragraphs, and for the companies you need 132. Why, Mrs. Minister? – Is the subject so much more difficult in the private sector? Is it so much easier in public service? – I know you don’t want to answer it, and I also know why you don’t want to answer it: because you simply don’t have an answer. In the public service, you don't need minimum working hours, you don't need them there. Why do you not need minimum working time in this area, Mrs Bundesminister? – For the public service, for the large ministries in which thousands of people work, you have a occupational medical center, but no minimum time spent. There are no security professionals in that sense, nor would there be any place in 13 paragraphs at all. – They measure with different dimensions. They are trying to achieve goals that we cannot agree with at the expense of bureaucracy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It would be different, too, Mrs Bundesminister – only you obviously do not want to!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7166	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. I'll set the clock in 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If we have already had an exemplary crime victim law, a further step will now be taken to reduce the damage and improve the situation of the victims. The increased cost of psychotherapy is the result of existing social security compensation. If one does not necessarily want to find the Ordinary personally as a therapist, almost always with the four times higher cash rate will be the result. It is important to ensure that the knowledge of the fourfold higher cost of social security does not cause the honors for therapists to grow acutely. Market economic criteria should not be based on psychotherapy, and the same fees should apply to the mentally ill. We all know these effects if the same thing is not the same, such as vacations in school holidays are much more expensive, less expensive than at other times. Negotiations and lists will have to be made on which therapists are moving within the framework. Pain money for mental and physical suffering is welcome, but cannot be financed by the state. We can see from very different pain payments how difficult it is to express pain in money – in the event of mental pain, it is much more difficult than in the physical. Pre-arranged lump sum could bring disadvantages to the victims. It would, however, be a huge relief for the victims and cost-neutral for the State, if pain claims were not only charged in civil proceedings, but were already negotiated in criminal proceedings and granted to the victim as a payment of the criminal to this. . I hope that the Committee on Justice is dealing with such a scheme, but I could imagine lawyers trying to prevent this kind of regulation, in order not to lose the victims as clients, because, at present, first-time pain money falls to lawyers to a large extent. I assume that all Members of the Committee on Justice, to whom the victims are at heart, are committed to this proposal and are able to achieve it. Crimes of all kinds are most traumatic for victims like their survivors. In addition to severely injured victims of violent crimes, I am thinking of the victims of sexual violence, especially the children who are abused by family members who love them and whom they should trust. It is good that the limitation periods have been extended for these crimes, because often, in order to be able to survive at the moment, the victims work with maximum displacement or stand in massive dependence, show their tormenters late and recognize their own emotional damage only after a long time. Therefore, the Federal Social Offices are particularly committed to cooperating with the victim protection associations in close contact. I would particularly like to mention the White Ring, an initiative of the executive. In all information materials, the reference is made to the achievements of our excellent crime victim law. This initiative expects more victims of crime to pay off advertising because it will give them the possibility of a therapy that is the way to normality for them. I do not think that the number of abuses is increasing, the issue has been detabulated and mediated, so that there is more ads. Personally, I remember a patient more than 20 years ago whose illness finally diagnosed after two years of hospitalisation as automutilism, who was assigned to psychotherapy and where sexual abuse was recognized by the stepfather. In their distress, this poor creature has lost a leg and around the width of her hair, as well as her forearm. Until then, I knew neither by studying nor by working on sexual abuse in the family, and I certainly met victims earlier. I recognized her suffering and did not understand her messages, since that was unknown at the time. Research on the Shoah has shown that even though victims have apparently overcome most traumatic events, psychological damage still has to be done and treated after decades. We must ensure that victims of violent crimes receive psychotherapy at once in order to find their way back into life, and by creating appropriate social conditions, we must allow a low-violent or non-violent society. We Socialists are concerned about protecting and helping the weak, so we welcome these new laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7234	Mr Vanner. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I also set the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7255	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to deal with a wishful proposal from my immediate predecessor, namely that pain compensation should and should take place in criminal proceedings. I do not think this can easily be done out of practice, because the pain money is not appreciated by the negotiator, but the pain money is determined by experts – mostly several – due to the collected health stories, the own investigation and more. As a rule, the surgeon is first on the line. The surgeon then points out that he still has to draw an orthopaedic, an internalist, sometimes also a psychiatrist or neurologist. This is simply not vulnerable in criminal proceedings. Of course, it would be nice if everything went in a wash, but hoping for it is, I think, completely missing. This novel, which is to be decided today, is important, but it is not enough for us to be liberals. Observers are always surprised that it is only very small amounts that are used in total according to the Law on Crime Victims. First of all, this has its cause in that people do not know what is actually theirs, but also that the possibilities for claims are relatively restrictive. We believe that everyone should have the right to receive everything he can demand from the perpetrator, even after the crime victim law – apart from damage to property – all that is related to the cost of healing on the one hand, to the performance of the crime, on the other, but also to the cost of pain. In the event of serious injuries, pain money plays a very important role. It is not a pleasure to get this, it is so to speak not the butter on the bread, but in people, the weeks, months, years – perhaps all their life! – having to suffer severe pain due to criminal acts, it simply belongs to making life more tolerable to them. Why should there not be the possibility of taking care of the advance out of the solidarity of all citizens? We are therefore concerned with getting what the victim might ask and receive from the perpetrator and for himself, in accordance with the Law on Crime Sacrifice. This includes, as has been said, not only the payment of pain, but also the compensation for injury or the loss of earnings – only not the damage to property, for example, if a loss or other property offence has resulted. This cannot be the problem of the solidarity. The possibility of abuse would also be too extensive. We liberals have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution which I shall now read: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are so proud that in many areas of public life, we have indeed been able to establish some sort of solidarity. However, it appears incomplete and incomplete. This motion for a resolution is therefore aimed at an area in which the victim of a crime can, on the contrary, not only be replaced by full damage, if it can be enforced in the process and is also legible, but can also be advanced from the resources of the public sector. This gap is to be resolved by this motion for a resolution, and I therefore invite all the Members of this House to agree to the request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7338	This motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Steibl has now come to speak. Similarly, 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7363	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. On the crime victim law, a lot has already been said by my colleagues and colleagues, but I would like to point out once again that the new regulation in the crime victim law is to be welcomed in principle, since many victims have not been able to afford psychotherapy for financial reasons. It is also positive that aid should not be restricted to certain criminal offences and that the survivors can now use psychotherapy for a large amount of free. However, the amendment to the Law on Crime Victims refers only to the improvement of the material situation of victims of crime who have to take advantage of psychotherapeutic treatment. Rules concerning the payment of pain for the victims or the acquisition of legal assistance shall not be taken into account in the Law on the Victims of Crime. Our demand is therefore that a free legal assistance system – there are already existing models, at least in the Styria – as well as a legal anchorage with regard to pain claims as fast and easy as possible. That is to say, we believe that pain money can also be attributed through the crime victim law and must not only be overcome by a long-term civil law path. Furthermore, it is necessary to require a psychological follow-up of the victims or the injured during the procedure. In the future, the administrative effort must be kept as little as possible when taking care of the treatment costs as well as when advocating the pain allowance, namely for the benefit of the victims. To sum up, I would like to stress: The inclusion of the cost of psychotherapy in the crime victim’s law’s catalogue of services constitutes an important step towards victim protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, further steps need to be taken. Victims need practical and rapid help to deal with the trauma, that is, they are entitled to immediate legal and psychological care, because for us, the victims of the ÖVP are in the first place, and victims are not allowed to stay on the track.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7412	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7433	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have three brief comments to make on the crime-offering law, on the one hand also in the direction of Mrs Ridi Steibl, because she has stated that it is now up to people who have become victims of crime to get help, and that the approach is that there should be no delay in these crimes and that people who have become victims of such crimes should not be left alone. The limit set out in this Act shall be drawn in the case of intentionally committed acts threatened with more than six months of imprisonment. So only if a victim is affected by such a legal and illegal act, for this one there is the replacement of the treatment costs. However, the thought that there should be a balance between victims and perpetrators has also been important in the area of young people and has led to extrajudicial action. These thoughts, which have been so successful in putting them into the adult field, are the way that would be necessary. We have legislated the extrajudicial compensation for youth, we have thought of it in the field of adults with the law which we decide here today and which is also agreed by the liberals, but it would have been necessary to consider the extrajudicial compensation for the adult sector equally. Therefore, a comment on Mrs Fekter, who, following the decision-making process in the Committee on the Media, said: I don't understand why you can't take care of the claims for damages. It is true, Mrs Fekter, that I am saying in your direction, because you are the President of the Justice Committee, that the motion for a resolution in this area has been in the House since February of this year and that there would have been a huge amount of time to negotiate this matter. Especially from the judicial committee and from the chairman of the judicial committee, who has more possibilities than other Members and in particular more opportunities than the opposition, it would have been possible to demand these measures, even if they could not have been adopted in the same law. At the same time, however, there could have been a change taking into account this area. However, this demand should have been negotiated, starting in February. This has not happened, and in that respect it is a failure to say that the government groups here are sparse. It would not have been necessary to talk about this matter since February in this House and simply not to discuss that area which you then asked for at the end of the negotiations, but it would have been possible to decide on these measures today when appropriate treatment was made on the part of the coalition parties. We Liberals regret that this is not possible today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The last point, ladies and gentlemen: In view of the Government's proposal, I think it is necessary to say that, in particular as regards the entry into force, a different wording should be chosen than that which is ultimately decided by us today. Today we decide – I quote – that: "(2) was the action within the meaning of § 1 para. 2 before the entry into force of the Federal Law BGBl. I No. xxx/xxx set,...". – This will probably not be useful; this also concerns another point. I think you will have to consider another possible formulation in order not to run into the open knife. There are decisions here in the House that, if they need to be applied, they simply cannot be understood by the standard subjects. This is probably not a provision for entry into force that should be approved by us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7480	Mrs Sophie Bauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7501	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since January 1995, the new Law on the Protection of Workers on 20 Directives of the European Union in the field of the Protection of Workers has been incorporated into the Austrian legal system, including the EU Employment Protection Directive, which states that all workers must be provided for medical and safety care, regardless of the size of the holding and the number of workers. Until now, however, Article VI in the Workers' Protection Act did not provide for the provision of occupational medical and safety care in establishments with up to 50 employees, but only on a voluntary basis. As a functionalist, we know from experience what it looks like in practice with the voluntary nature of companies. Voluntaryness remains the right to die, and the risks at the workplace are rarely or rarely eliminated. Therefore, it was also essential to provide appropriate occupational and safety care for workplaces with up to 50 employees from 1st century onwards. January 1999 to be guaranteed by law. Ladies and gentlemen! The novel is a successful repair of Article VI. Without this correction, the protection of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises would have remained dead. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also do not understand the criticism of the President of the Austrian Chamber of Physicians, Dr Michael Neumann, that this novelle would significantly affect the quality of the protection of workers. The draft is based on a certain degree of flexibility to adapt to the situation in question, to provide medical and safety services, because these tailored care directives ensure appropriate adaptation of care to the particular hazard situation and reduce unproductive and unnecessary standing times of the preventive workers. If one compares the working environment of a shoe dealer with that of a chemical production plant, with the same number of employees employed by both, the occupational physicians in the chemical industry will need more time to investigate than the shoe dealer. It is always to be seen that there are chemicals that do not affect 98 percent of employees, but the remaining two percent cannot work with them. That is why it is correct and important that the draft allows for flexible adaptation to the respective situation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch and her team for their commitment, since it was also necessary to make enormous efforts to convince the coalition partner of the sensibility of changing the Workers' Protection Act so that workers' protection is also enshrined in legislation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7550	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7572	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The current legal situation in the case of the crime victim law is, I believe, undisputed unsatisfied and not contemporary. A revision of this crime victim law is necessary. So far, psychotherapeutic treatment of victims and survivors has not been sufficiently paid. In Austria, criminals often receive better psychotherapeutic treatment than the victims or the survivors. The introduction of pre-financing for self-retaining psychotherapeutic measures for victims of crime approved by health insurance schemes is a step in the right direction. I think that's where we all agree. It is an old demand of the liberals to achieve an improvement in the benefits for victims of crime. Help should not be limited only to certain offences. This should also apply to survivors, as they often suffer from very serious mental diseases. It is also important to improve the material situation of those concerned by receiving a tax on the cost of psychotherapy. It is also important to consider how legal claims can be more effectively enforced against the perpetrators. It should also be reinforced by doctors and courts to point out the treatment options of this group of persons. In addition, I believe that in the event of physical injury, the amount of pain should also be included in the assistance. I also advocate that legal and psychological care be available to victims, including advances on financial assistance, but in particular professional procedural or process support, at least minor victims. With regard to the employee protection scheme for small businesses, the Government template provides for safety and occupational health care in workplaces with up to 50 employees, either through their own appointment of safety professionals, through the use of a prevention centre of the competent institution of the accident insurance institution or, where appropriate, by the employer himself. However, prevention centres can only be used by those companies that do not employ more than 50 workers at different workplaces. I mean, a wilful limitation at the size of the plant is not the yellow of the egg. Rather, it counters the efforts to move businesses to increasingly recruit apprentices and disadvantaged people. I also believe that it is eye-catching if the coalition parties make an amendment to the Committee, which includes extending the limit of 50 workers to 53 workers if they are exceeded by apprentices and beneficiaries of the disabled. I believe that the working time of safety professionals and occupational health professionals in businesses should be made dependent on the specific risk potential of the industry and that the hourly scale should not be measured according to the number of employees. This could, on the one hand, avoid unnecessary direct wage additional costs in companies with non-drug production processes or in purely service undertakings and, on the other hand, reduce costs on the part of the federal or social insurance companies. On this point I am of an opinion with my predecessor, who meant that we should make this area a little more flexible. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that safety and health at work are both in the interests of workers and in the interests of businesses. The occupational medicine then has a meaning if it can save later rehabilitation costs and also prevent invalidity.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7624	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7645	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I too would like to refer to the new crime victim law. I feel that the improvements in the crime victim law that we are going to decide today are essential and correct. For in recent years it has often been felt that the law, but also its execution, has been the concern for the perpetrators and their therapy in the foreground. At last, it really is about real victim protection! Unfortunately, we have to say again and again today that violence is increasing in society. The causes of this are diverse: These are very often unstable family relationships, and there is a far too large number of divorces, television programmes in which violence is glorified, and much more. The victims are often children and women, and therefore it is necessary and time to make improvements. To suffer a criminal violence is certainly one of the worst experiences a human can have! There is serious psychological damage to the victims. The need for therapy is certainly highest for minor victims of sexual violence, but it can also be great in the event of serious injury to the body. Therefore, aid should not be restricted to certain criminal offences. This law now concerns the granting of state aid to victims in the form of intermediate benefits. The Federal Government then recovers these benefits from the harm in the Regressweg. I think that's right, too, because it's about sharpening awareness for injustice. I am very pleased that the victims now have an effective and comprehensive right to psychotherapist assistance or relief – and also retroactively! – can be helped. For those who are currently waiting for help can still be helped. It is also important that the assistance also applies to survivors of crime victims. Some of my previous speakers have said that there is a lack of information on this. I would like to make the following proposal: There is a large network of advisory services covering the whole of the federal territory. We could use this to ensure that the Ministry only sends information to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger said that children should not be allowed to hold back. I am of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, but I believe that with the rates now agreed, it can be found, because one hour of psychotherapy cannot be so expensive that it accounts for more than 2 000 s. That is why I do not think that this supplementary proposal is necessary. In the context of the other laws, Mr Oellinger has also said that accident insurance would not make any effort to prevent it. This is absolutely not the case in my opinion! The Federal Minister has already received a brief reply. I know for myself an example: In the farmers' social security institution, the action "The safe farm" has been carried out for years, and it can already be seen from the figures that the accident frequency, especially in cases of serious accidents, has fallen considerably. I believe that a lot of things are happening on this point. Mrs. Dr. Pittermann said earlier: We Socialists are concerned about protecting and helping the weak, so we welcome this law! I would like to say: We are also concerned by the protection and assistance of the weak, and we therefore welcome this law too.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7698	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7719	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. On today's item on the agenda 2, the Workers' Protection Act, I am sure I can give the Minister in one point, namely that the measures necessary and undisputed for the health and safety of workers are necessary and undisputed. The measures provided for in this law are partly in order, but we also require a great deal of bureaucracy. However, neglecting these measures would certainly mean great damage to Austria. But, Mrs Federal Minister, I think you're wrong if you think that this federal law is a big throw. As regards the question of the medical and safety care of workers, the implementation is certainly not as successful as we have presented it to the liberals. We pay particular attention to the occupational and safety medical care of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises, which we believe has always been neglected. This government template now provides for a comprehensive implementation of these demands, but on unacceptable terms. For this purpose, workplaces, small and medium-sized enterprises with up to 50 employees can either use a prevention centre at the General Insurance Institute for free, or undertake safety professionals and occupational physicians themselves. Mrs. Federal Minister! You speak in your APA issue on 5 May. November this year of flexible and unbureaucratic care models for small and medium-sized enterprises. They do not consider the time lost both for employers and for workers in the countryside, i.e. in the so-called province, to visit the far-away prevention centres. I think the hair's in the soup. The occupational health care of establishments with up to 50 employees should not be carried out through the institutions of the General Insurance Institute but by the established occupational doctors after the choice of the employer and the employee. In order to relieve already heavily burdened small and medium-sized enterprises, the cost of doing so should in any case be borne entirely by the General accident insurance institution. If there is no room available in the establishments, the examination of workers should also be possible in the doctor's ordination. I find reasonable the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter, which adds a major role to the risk potential in the calculation of the time spent on medical and safety services. In our view, the risk potential should be identified specifically in the industry. Another point is important for us: A significant reduction in the minimum time spent in safety and occupational medicine could be achieved in the areas of operations with less risky working processes, thereby reducing costs in exchange with full cost relief for small and medium-sized enterprises. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In summary, I consider this novelle to be too centralistic for workers in small and medium-sized enterprises to have a worse effect than for those in large enterprises, and for enterprises as a whole it is too expensive if the benefits are not really used only by the general accident insurance institution. Therefore, we will not give our consent to the Freedom of the Workers' Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7762	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7784	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is not possible to address the contributions of the Liberal Forum or the Greens. There's no one here. To the last speaker, Mr Blünegger, I have to say... – Mr Smolle! [[Abg. Smolle: Don't be angry, one is there! I'm not the Lord!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: With you, Smolle, you never know which party you are in!]] There was no one there at the moment I found out, and I remain with that observation. Mr. Blünegger! We did not expect you to agree to this worker protection law. That can't be for oppositional reasons. I am also aware that the objectives of this amendment to the Workers' Protection Act are high. This is about the implementation of the EU Labour Protection Directive through systematic consultation and support. It is also about reducing the number of accidents at work, minimizing occupational diseases and work-related diseases, reducing human suffering many times, and minimizing the cost of accidents in health care and social security. However, it is also a question of providing effective support to businesses in fulfilling their responsibilities in the field of safety at work, so that the prevention of occupational disturbances due to accident-related diseases also reduces additional labour costs and thus increases productivity. It is clear to all of us that these objectives can only be achieved through a tailor-made care offer, and we therefore welcome this amendment to the Workers' Protection Act. In terms of content and subject matter, the new building coordination law, which is also on today's agenda, is closely linked. This law also implements a directive of the European Union which is particularly important for workers' protection on construction sites. In the future, when workers of various undertakings are employed at a construction site, the builder must order coordinators for safety and health protection. The construction industry is well known for the high frequency of accidents and the risk of fatal accidents is even twice as high in this area as on average in all sectors. In the case of more than one third of these accidents, according to an EU-wide investigation, the causes of planning errors are the causes. The Construction Work Coordination Act now provides for the appointment of a planning coordinator at the planning stage of construction sites where workers of several companies are employed, even before the actual construction work begins, of the measures necessary for the safety and health protection of workers of the various companies. For certain construction sites, which are larger and particularly dangerous, a safety and health plan must be drawn up in advance for all work on the site. I think this is a major step forward, because during the implementation phase, i.e. during the actual construction work, a coordinator has to organise the cooperation of the various companies and ensure that the different employers apply the safety and health plan. However, the individual employers are not exempt from their obligation to comply with workers' protection provisions. I personally expect this new coordination law and its obligations to minimise the potential risks that may arise from the uncoordinated co-ordination and succession of various construction companies to the same construction site, and thus to reduce the number of accidents in the construction industry. But – and this should not be overlooked – there are also several improvements to be expected for companies. In my opinion, the Construction Work Coordination Act is not only an effective tool to increase safety at construction sites, but also clearly shows that workers protection is definitely expected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7832	Mrs Povysil is now speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7854	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am really pleased that our constant approach to child abuse and sexual abuse has now led to a first approach towards better victim protection. I am really glad because, as you know, we have been beaten by you very often. Of course, we will gladly agree with this first attempt, Mrs Minister. Now the second law, the Workers' Protection Act. In Austria, about 1.5 million people are employed in approximately 250 000 companies with up to 50 employees. These too, as we have heard many times today, are to be supplied medically. Why, then, do I ask you, do we create a law that clearly brings disadvantages to the workers in small businesses against their colleagues in large businesses? Why, I ask, do you create disadvantages by law? – For in establishments with 51 employees, a doctor on average deals with the employee for 53 minutes per year, but at most for 9.6 minutes in farms with 50 employees! Depending on the size of the small business, only one or twice a year a visit is planned with a occupational physician and a safety technician. Ladies and gentlemen! In Germany the employment per employee lasts three hours, in Spain two, in Belgium and Italy at least one! I'm asking you now: Where's suddenly? Do you otherwise have such pre-emptive obedience in terms of EU conformity? - He's not given! What effect do sporadic visits of a doctor really have in a farm? Someone who comes only sporadically is not a doctor, but mainly a health inspector. However, it is not only intended to document the burden on the workplace, but also to analyse, assess and produce consequences. This makes the important issue of health promotion and advice completely accessible once again. Thus, small businesses are clearly discriminated against to large businesses in this law! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now to finance. Here again we see a further step in the state mentality we are well-known to have. With our social security contributions, AUVA takes over funding – that is okay – but also medical care in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Worker contributions!]] – You’re right! – However, the fact that there are established doctors who have a work-medical education that costs several hundred thousand schillings only warrants Dr. Kainz of the trade association with the sentence: Additional occupational physicians are only an unnecessary cost and time factor. – So a very competitive, economic attitude! Now the AUVA says that it will also use established occupational physicians, where it is useful and useful. – Ladies and gentlemen! This statement of social security, which corresponds to the statutes of social security, namely, that it is sufficient, appropriate and not to finance the extent of the necessary, is a sentence that has deeply influenced my memory. On the one hand, it is "senseful and useful to offer tooth crowns for 5 percent of the population in ambulatory areas with uneven competition opportunities. On the other hand, it is "not useful", for example, for artificial fertilization, which means a massive financial and physical burden for women, which the WHO defines as a disease and the UN as a fundamental right to grant a social security grant or to assume part of the cost of social security. Now I ask you – and this is a fundamental question of this health system: Who falls the Salomonian judgment on the measure of necessity and on sensuality? – With us in Austria, this is not the population who pays the social security contributions, but the social security itself and its extended arm, our social democratic woman ministers!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7895	Mrs Fekter has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7917	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Let me describe the course of this novel to the Law on Crime Victims. ==References== In July 1997, the ÖVP submitted to the Minister for Justice the proposal for a Swiss law on the protection of victims. Minister of Justice Michalek wrote in his response to the ÖVP's victim protection initiative – among other things, we called for a therapy for victims – the following: The basic structure of the procedure also shows that a claim for a right to a treatment discussion for victims of crime requires not only an effort by the judicial body, but also the Federal and Land authorities responsible for social security and social assistance. He then addressed the Minister for Social Affairs with the request that an improvement be made in the Law on Crime Victims, which should then be carried out through the Social Authorities. We then went on to 26th. A motion for a resolution was tabled here in the House on 4 February 1998, which was supported by four political groups, but only the liberals did not support it. It called on the Federal Government to ensure that victims of violent offences were provided with adequate and free treatment. Thank you for this, Mrs Hostasch, the Minister for Social Affairs, who, in accordance with this motion for a resolution, has prepared the novelle to be adopted today. As you know, however, I am not yet satisfied, because in Switzerland the injured person, the victim, is being charged with pain money by the state, and the state then rules with the perpetrator. This has the advantage of not consoling the victim to a two-time trial: one as a witness in the criminal process, and the other as a witness to his own pain claims and compensation schemes in the civil process. I have read the words of Mrs Minister that she is not against it in principle, but she is playing the ball back to the judicial board or to the judicial committee. That is why I would like to mention briefly why this is not so easy. Mrs Primaria Pittermann has stated here that the granting of pain money is actually part of the criminal process. I admit that it would be desirable for judges to pay more attention to this, because it is already possible by law to do so on the private participation of the victim in the criminal proceedings. It must be borne in mind, however, that in the criminal process the presumption of innocence is primarily valid, i.e. that until the judgment has been given, there is no condemned perpetrator, but only one suspect, and that the finding of truth in the criminal process is in the foreground of the process rather than the handling of the interests of the victim. For procedural reasons, most of the judges refer the victims to the Civil Code. We are therefore again on the painful issue of the fact that victims have to be exposed to the processual hardship and procedure twice. If there is a convicted perpetrator and the doctors find that the victim has been injured, then it would be possible to assert the claim for pain through the crime-offering law. We shall, however, take a close look at this issue in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights in order to address the concerns which Mrs Social Minister has mentioned that this could go too far. Victims of car accidents are not meant because, in this case, liability insurance exists anyway, but we mean primary victims of violent crimes and, in particular, victims of sexual offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7972	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e7993	Mr President. Mrs Fekter, ladies and gentlemen! Let me make it clear once again how my position on the question is damages and pain money. I believe that this raises a really fundamental question of our legal system when it comes to claims for damages in various cases and to the State being fulfilled. It is therefore not possible to choose a procedure in a social law, as in the crime victim law, before this fundamental legal question has been clarified. I see the concern of the Minister of Justice, whom you have also quoted, fully fulfilled by this bill. I am very glad that we have been able to realize this through joint decision-making. As Mrs Povysil referred to the question of taking over the costs of artificial fertilization by statutory health insurance, I should like to state clearly: The statutory health insurance is based on the current legal situation and is therefore unable to take over the costs of such measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8027	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8051	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, if you have just clarified your position on compensation for damages, I think it is remarkable that Mrs Fekter thanked herself for this law. I assume that it has not only expressed its personal opinion but also, so to speak, that of the ÖVP. The opinion of our group has already been expressed by Mrs Pittermann. We are concerned about this law because people are concerned about us. It is unfortunate that two positive government proposals are being dealt with here. I spoke on behalf of the Workers' Protection Act, i.e. the second positive draft government that we are going to vote here today. Mr Stummvoll has found that prevention is both the task of businesses and the general accident insurance institution. I very much regret that such a positive measure as the implementation of the Workers' Protection Act is not supported and supported by all Members of this House for businesses with among 50 employees. Mr Peter should be asked what he means by the term "hazardous operation". Does he understand the construction industry in which workers – which shows the statistics – are most vulnerable, and this is also reflected in the prevention report that will be known to you, Mr Oillinger? But what about the many small hairdressers in which many of the employees have occupational diseases caused by the chemicals used? Are the farms now at risk or not? – Of course, you can't do it that easy. The accident insurance is legally obliged to take appropriate preventive measures and therefore also has highly qualified employees in this area. In addition, some figures from the Graz regional office from the 1996 report: In the course of these preventive services, 150 000 persons were employed. There were training courses with 877 participants, lectures with about 15,000 participants and first-aid courses with about 3,000 participants. However, I am particularly concerned about the field of research into causes of accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as on-site care and on-site use, such as all known noise measurements, chemical measurements, construction site buses or dust control. It is therefore clear to us that the acquisition of external professionals can only be done from the point of view of quality assurance, I would even say the quality guarantee. A consumer or a consumer who buys a product in a store or, for example, with his colleague Peter in the "White Rössl" he orders a lung bread, but then perhaps he gets a shoulderpiece or shoulder-cutter would not like it. They would demand quality assurance. I therefore believe that, especially when it comes to the care and health of working people, it is much more our obligation to demand this quality assurance. If the liberals make themselves so strong with requests for the established doctors, I wonder: Why is there representatives of your group in this House who still have cash contracts if you are so opposed to the checkouts? Secondly, I wonder if Mrs Povysil has any reference to this insurance, if she does not seem to know that accident insurance is almost the liability of entrepreneurs. The FPÖ has therefore once again completely demasked and demonstrated the groups for which it is actually acting and the quality assurance of the health of workers. Without the good work of accident insurance, we could not have achieved the progress achieved so far. My colleague has already pointed out the quality. However, it is not as simple to argue as you, my colleague, have done: The 85 decibels you have eight hours a day are not comparable to the 90 decibels, which you may have three hours a week or a month in a disco. So it is a difference whether you are exposed to this noise in the work process or whether you are faced with it for a few hours in your free time. Mrs. Federal Minister! I mean, just the approach to small businesses is a step towards quality assurance. It offers many possibilities in the field of prevention. We welcome this law very much, however, from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which I would like to point out here again. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8106	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur is not asking for a final word. We are entering the voting procedure and I therefore ask that the seats be taken. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the crime victim law, including the title and receipt in 1472 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the case with the vote. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is done unanimously. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the Law on Crime Victims. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Ofner and Mr Comrades on more assistance to victims of crime. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done only by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, with which the Workers' Protection Act, Article VI of the Federal Law BGBl. No. 450/1994 and the General Social Security Act, together with the title and receipt in 1485 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I beg you, so You also want to give the draft law a third reading in order to give an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1486 of the supplements. If you want to agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the draft law on the coordination of construction work law and the title and receipt in 1487 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask you for a sign to be given. – The majority of the vote will be taken. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1463 of the Supplements): Convention (No. 176) on the protection of work in mines; Recommendation (No. 183) on safety at work in mines (1488 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8243	I'm calling the 5. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first mention is made by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8270	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on which we are dealing today has a history that began in 1997 because it was the first one. In July 1997, when the Federal Government first submitted a report to the National Council explaining that the Convention on the Protection of Labour in Mining will require an adjustment of the Austrian Mountain Law in various areas. However, there have been different views within the Federal Government on the extent to which an adjustment needs to be made. That is what happened at the Committee meeting on 1 January. In October 1997, the report was postponed because it wanted to know from the Federal Government how long it will take for these adjustments to be made in the mountain law. It is now true that by the events in summer and by taking up the failure of the Federal Government to implement the Convention of Labour and to anchor it into the Mountain Law, the Liberals have once again come to the committee and have therefore been renegotiated. But, ladies and gentlemen, it has only been negotiated in the Committee on the Convention, which today also stands for ratification, but no longer on the report presented by the Federal Government. This report was drawn up on 19 November. ==References====External links== That is why we have done this because we want to cover the fact that there are differing views within the government groups regarding the adjustment of the mountain law. After the Committee has concluded that, in reality, it is not planned to adapt the legislation, but it is considered only opportune to ratify this Convention now, we do not think it useful to accept such a proposal. They decide, in fact, to ratify this Convention with a mental reservation, knowing that this should not be reflected in laws, although it should be transposed into laws. It cannot therefore be useful to present this Convention to the public at present, to say that after Lassing we are also doing something about the protection of work in mines, but at the same time to conceal that substantial changes are not planned. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no consent from the Liberals to this law and to this request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I would also ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to carry out which provisions have, in particular, been regarded as in need of adaptation by the social sector and which provisions in the new law, the successor law of the mountain law, which is still in place for decision-making are covered by this Convention. For it is not possible, once again, to make sense and purpose of the negotiations here on the ground that, for politically motivated reasons, the ILO Convention, which has not been ratified so far, cannot now be used as a basis, but does not make any adjustments to the legal basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8310	Mr Nürnberger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8332	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we have good workers' protection regulations in Austria, I am very happy and very pleased that today the House is now receiving this ILO recommendation and the Convention No. 176 will be decided and ratified. In contrast to you, Mr Barmüller, I assume that if the House decides on these two proposals, these will be implemented in fact. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! I assume that in your remarks you will then refer to the finding or the accusation of Mr Barmüller. Let me address some of the points of these two proposals, because they will bring some substantial improvements to those people who work underground and – I am convinced of it – will also bring them. One of the most important points is that where people work underground when technically possible, two exits and two separate escape routes are installed. In the event of obvious danger to workers, they must be brought to a safe place. Emergency plans shall be provided for all mines in the case of natural disasters. A very important point is that, at last, a system is being created that will enable workers to determine at any time which workers are under-days and where they have last stayed in order to find them more quickly and aim-orientedly in the event of an accident. When considering these measures, it is clear that a case like that of Lassing could have been prevented if there had already been a second escape route or a system by which people could have been found more quickly in the pit or by which one would have known where they were located. This is a purely theoretical question that no one can answer, but it is likely to be: If there had been such systems, if one had known where they were, or if there had been a second escape route, the disaster would not have had such an extent as it had unfortunately had. I would also like to say, however, that Mrs Bundesminister: The best proposals for worker protection will not be useful if there is no appropriate control. I can only once again make the most of the wish that the law should ensure that workers' representatives are also necessarily taken up by the competent authorities in any case. I should like once again to express my criticism and concern and appeal to you: Mrs. Federal Minister! Perhaps it is still possible to give workers' protection and control in our country a hand or to unite in an authority. I do not think that an authority such as the Mining Team, which controls and imposes conditions, must also control the protection of workers. It would certainly be more appropriate if an authority, such as labour inspection, were also responsible for workers' protection at the mine. Ladies and gentlemen! I am sure, Mr Barmüller, that these questions have already been dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. At the time it was postponed, but the Socialist Group of this House has made sure that the draft law is in place today. The whole group, but to a particular extent the trade unionists in the Social Committee were in favour at the time. Unfortunately, however, we could not agree so that it would have been decided. I am glad that this is happening today. The side taste is certainly not pleasant: The tragic accident of Lassing caused this law to be passed today. Maybe we all draw a lesson from it: It should not be the case that people in working life, in working life, must suffer damage before we have such consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8384	Mrs Petrovic has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8405	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that Mrs. Hostasch is sitting on the government bank, namely that she is sitting there alone. I really do not understand why the Socialist Group has so quickly and so easily discharged the Minister of Economic Affairs from his responsibility. Mr Nürnberger! You have told us that the ratification of the agreement is, of course, related to Lassing. However, I ask you why only a Federal Minister is present, who, with her presence, of course also has to bear the responsibility for not having been ratified earlier. I just think that this sole responsibility goes to the wrong address. Mr Nürnberger! This Agreement is on the 82th. The meeting of the International Labour Conference in the spring of 1995 was decided. Until now, from the spring of 1995 to the late autumn of 1998, it was not possible to ratify this agreement in Austria. The question why it was not ratified is quite easy to answer: The Bergbehörde and the Minister for Economic Affairs did not want to do so. It says literally in the report: "The Supreme Mountain Authority took the view that, as far as its scope is concerned, the telelogical interpretation of the Convention and the recommendation was to be regarded as being fulfilled and that no specific implementing measures were necessary in the event of a telelogical interpretation." The Central Labour Inspectorate originally took a different view, but then apparently let itself be "knocked" from coalition grounds – as is always the case. Mr Nürnberger! Mrs. Federal Minister! In how many materials have we experienced the same thing, in areas where it is about life, about health? – In the area of mountain rights, the protection of workers in mines is concerned. However, we have also experienced in the promille regulation on road transport that many had to die before this House acted before social democracy was finally given its original opinion. Mrs. Federal Minister! I ask you, who belong to the Federal Government and the Council of Ministers: What about the Weapons Act? How many massacres does social democracy still need before it shows backbone to the ÖVP? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I ask you this question in every form: Why is an agreement from 1995 only now decided? Mr Nürnberger has just told us: It is now necessary to speculate on what would have been if there had been two escape routes in this mine. This one would have needed Georg Hainzl, and these might have needed the ten other miners. They didn't exist, and they don't exist in other mines in Austria. The right to lay down the work without losing the wage claim, because for weeks less accidents had occurred in Lassing, of which the whole village of Lassing knew, could not be used. Perhaps it would have helped those concerned if they had known that the right on their part would have been that they could have put down their work without having to tremble before the Rio Tinto group, before Luzenac and the Group bosses and without their families having risked poverty coming upon them. Perhaps this would have helped them, but the will was not there. Ms. Federal Minister – that is your responsibility – the Central Labour Inspectorate first found that the Austrian legal situation does not correspond to the ILO Convention. However, much of the concerns could be dropped after negotiations between the parties concerned. Mrs. Federal Minister! Please tell us why these concerns have been dropped. Has the workers been dropped in the mines? What was it, then, why did one drop the concerns? – We know that the protection of workers in the area of mines was not appropriate. This was not only the case in Lassing, it is also true in other mines. There are no two safety exits, there is no right to lay down work, even if there are moments of danger. Why, though, has social democracy also dropped its concerns? Has she been convinced by the Supreme Mountain Authority in fact, or was it something else? Was it perhaps the fear of one's own possession of power, or was it the fear that the coalition peace might hang even worse, Mrs. Federal Minister? What can be the price that social democracy is willing to pay when it comes to the preservation of power? Figures You're here for any price, Mrs. Federal Minister, or are there any limits? – These are the questions that are now asking themselves. Lassing hasn't stood out yet. The case has also gone through the media today. The debate continues within the coalition, and now the recovery variants are discussed. This ILO Convention is too late for the dead of Lassing. I hope that in other mines, it will perhaps give other workers a chance to demand more security, based on the rule of law. Mrs. Federal Minister! My question goes far beyond this ILO Convention, far beyond the Lassing case, far beyond the area of mines. I would like to ask you once again how much safety, health, the protection of workers in social democracy are worth. Is this a goal that you want to achieve unconditionally and also the price of a great coalitionary scratch, or is it just like this ILO agreement, namely that it seems that an authority has to cut its fingers and social democracy goes to its knees?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8474	Mr Dr. Drinkl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8495	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The International Labour Conference took place on 22 February. This Convention was adopted in June 1995 and is recommended to the Member States for ratification. That's right. At the time, all three Austrian representatives, both ministerial representatives, employee representatives and business representatives, agreed to this document in Geneva. Member of the Commission. Petrovic! With great interest in the Committee, I have heard the comments of your colleague, Mr Oellinger, that today this ratification is as similar as "The Truman Show". Your appearance here highlights this very clearly. It's a game in front of a backdrop, in front of a background. It is only the question whether the background here is real and true. The fact is: If the Supreme Mountain Authority considers that the requirements of the Convention can be implemented telelogically, this does not mean that it is against it, but rather the opposite – you know very well that: [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Then what was in Lassing?]] The Supreme Mountain Authority was of the opinion that it was possible to ratify without a doubt because the contents would be fulfilled in teleological interpretation, according to the spirit of destination. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's Lassing's mind?]] But the Central Labour Inspectorate was of different opinion – you know – and the Central Labour Inspectorate reportedly presented a long list of why the implementation of this Convention in Austria would not have been possible at the time. At the time of its meeting, the Federal Government took into account the concerns of the Ministry of Social Affairs and recommended only the attention. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The application was then postponed in October 1997 in order to allow the Federal Government to take the necessary [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the government now submits the draft law to Parliament for ratification, it is apparent that it has clearly succeeded in disseminating the concerns of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I have a list that the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs sees no need to adapt to the implementation of this Convention. For me, it is already the question of what the concerns of the time existed. In order to save a little bit of speaking time, which is limited here in Parliament, I have tabled a parliamentary question in this regard, in order to give the Ministry the opportunity to answer the question in writing, which has led to the change of opinion. On behalf of my group, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, I would like to say that we did not have any fundamental concerns about ratification in October 1997 or today, and we will be happy to vote today. Mrs Petrovic! I would also like to say with all clarity that this agreement has no significance – unfortunately, no significance – for the mine accident in Lassing. All that the ILO Agreement No. 176 demanded, was given in Lassing. Everything was there and it would have been, I fear, even if we had ratified – I really agree with Mr Nürnberger – unfortunately, I cannot prevent this accident. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Workers should not have worked there for a long time!]] Mr Oellinger! I've really been following your statements on the "Truman Show" with great interest. Just one thing to do: Politics is not a "truman show". Almost everything specified from above will then be implemented – as much as the man in the moon. I didn't see the movie, my son explained it to me. But thank God it is not that God is grateful in politics the conversation is possible, and thank God it is possible in politics for the other to respond to arguments. In this context, I would like to say one thing: The main actor of the "Truman show" also plays a role in another film. This movie is called "The Mask". This mask is green, and at the end of the film this mask falls into the water and goes down. [[Abg. Oillinger: You haven't seen this movie again, you have to watch it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the matter itself, I can say that the draft Mineral Raw Materials Act will bring with it substantial improvements in the situation in mines in connection with safety obligations, emergency plans and changes to the communication system. In fact, as there are no concerns about the ratification of this Convention, it is appropriate to recommend with good conscience to the House that this Convention be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8577	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8598	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me add, in addition to what Mr Drinkl said, that the ratification of this agreement cannot be seen in any material or temporal context with the terrible events in Lassing. There are no links, and no one could predict that such terrible things would happen in Lassing. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, let me say how the procedure is in such international agreements. It is necessary to comply with a time limit for the submission. This was held on the part of the resort. There is the possibility of noticing and ratification by the House. It has already been explained by Mr Drinkl why the Federal Government was first of all concerned with the idea that this agreement should be taken note of to the House. In the Committee on Social Affairs, I fully underlined this argument, the German Government was then postponed in order to allow me to clarify those points which were opposed to or opposed to ratification. Mrs Petrovic! I am allowed to hold on – Mr Drinkl has already said it –: The officials, ladies and gentlemen in the department are fully available to all the groups in the House when it comes to getting detailed information. All the points of the need for adaptation have also been brought to your attention, just as they have been brought to the attention of Mr Drinkl. I do not think it is very fair to give the House the impression that we would not have provided this information to the interested ladies and gentlemen of the House. In addition, Mr Barmüller – who is not in the hall now – there were four key points in the last phase, which have been the subject of discussions and negotiations, which are now not least fulfilled by the Government's proposal on the Mineral Raw Materials Act. It is this by Article 5 para. 2 lit. (c) laying down the procedures for reporting dangerous events. Furthermore, Article 5 para. 5 that the legislator should require the employer to draw up business plans prior to the start of the holding. - I'm really sorry. – Article 10 lit. (e) the employer must ensure that a report on dangerous incidents is returned to the competent authority. Article 13(1) 1 lit. f: The legislation must give workers the right to select representatives of the labour market together. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These points, as well as the others, were prepared in detail in the negotiations, could be clarified in the discussions and are also fulfilled by the draft Mineral Raw Materials Act. That is why there is nothing against ratification, and I would be glad if the House took into account the request made by the Federal Government. Finally, allow me to support and underline a request from Mr Nürnberger, namely that it should be desirable for all workers employed in mining to be responsible for a work inspection. We have included this request in the negotiations with the coalition partner. However, I cannot give you a final report on the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8644	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8669	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I It is good that you have noticed my speech from the Committee, but you have made a mistake: Unfortunately, they have not seen the "Truman show" – and obviously not the film "The Mask". It is true that a green mask is used in the film "The Mask", but in good people – so the tenor of this film – the green mask enhances the good properties, while in negatively charged people the negative properties are even strengthened. So: The green mask is not the problem, but the person behind it is the problem, Mr Dinkl. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The good people don't need a mask!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: We want to hear what Mrs Petrovic said in committee!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You're going down, that's the problem!]] Again back to the movie The Truman show. The problem of "Truman Show", Mr Dinkl, is not the artificial framework, but the real problem is that no one knows what is true and what is wrong. One does not know in all cases: the main actor. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Yes, that's it! This has been the problem of Mr Petrovic!]] He thinks he's playing in real life. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Mrs. Petrovic did not recognize this correctly!]] And you also believe you're playing in real life when you decide. Then everything's good, you mean: We were never against it, we were always for it. – Strangely, one cannot explain why three years of strong resistance has been exercised. Everyone was for it, and now we decide that, then everything is good. - It's all right. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: I didn't say that!]] Oh, yes! You have claimed that everything is good if we decide. You have said that, and nothing has changed to the basic conditions, Mr Drinkl. There have been good reasons for you – so that I do not want to ratify or want to ratify the Federal Chamber of Commerce, on the other hand the Central Labour Inspectorate, at that time to represent the opinion. – Where to question: What it should mean if the three representatives who travel to the International Labour Organisation to Geneva decide something there, and then when they get home, at least one of the three representatives, namely the representative of the economy, says: Don't worry, we don't ratify!Unknown term type: "%s".? – What kind of policy is that? What kind of policy is this, Mr Drinkle? It is your side, the economic side, which – and you have told us this yourself – decides something in Geneva, but then can no longer remember at home and is against ratification. It is indeed to be read in the minutes that the economic side was against ratification in 1997 because some of the elements of this ILO Convention are not in their opinion fulfilled. This is to be read – also from the Central Labour Inspectorate. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would now like to talk about the new situation. It's nice if you or the central labour inspector tell us now: For our area, with some exceptions we do not need to adapt, it does fit everything. – But this is only a part of the truth. It is only a part of the truth, because you are no longer talking about the fact that there is still another reality outside of the central labour inspectorate, outside the upper-tage construction, namely the mining under the earth. Yes, there is! That's actually the Lassing problem. That's interesting: We here in Parliament are pretending that the conditions above the earth, in upper-steel construction, in the protection of workers are largely fulfilled. That is true – with a few exceptions; I am still talking about these exceptions – to a large extent. But what does it look like under the earth? – That is what the Central Labour Inspector and the Federal Minister said: We're not responsible. This is the question that Mr Petrovic has asked – stupidly asked –: Where is the Minister of Economic Affairs? Why doesn't he explain this to us today? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The question was okay!]] In 1994, everything worked out, as did 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998. The telelogical interpretation of the law states: It's all right. Why don't you let him explain it to us? Then: Nothing's all right! You know that as well as we do. No change has been made to the basics. In the old report to the ILO agreement, it was also made clear – and it is still noted in it – that mining under the earth would still need some adaptation. If it's done now, as if it had nothing to do with Lassing, what we decide today, then, ladies and gentlemen, I'm appealing to your short memory. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: But that was before...!]] I am not appealing to Mrs Hostasch for not having to feel attacked in this regard. A few months ago we had a debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs, in which we referred to him why this ILO agreement has not been ratified. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs could not explain this to us because he was not interested and is not interested in ratifying this agreement. And now one forgets that there is also a mining under the earth, and one says: Above the earth we have fulfilled everything. All right, all right, all – This is only a part of the truth. This may actually be true, but there is also an area that is protected by a large dome from reality, an area in which actors act. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But the problem of divergents was the mining above the earth!]] Mr. Drinkl! They obviously belong to the actors who want to explain to us here: If we decide now, then everything will fit, and there is no need for adaptation in mining under the earth at all! They are also one of the actors, Mr. Drinkl, who acted there in the "Truman Show". And after that also occurs in the film – unfortunately you haven't seen the film – I recommend you look at this movie again. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Not yet!]] What you're doing here is, unfortunately, politics with the witches' cross. That's what the little kids like to do. They say: It fits everything! and behind the back you make the witch cross with your fingers. Then, of course, you need not fulfill what you promised. Then you can promise something, but you did the witches' cross, and then you don't. This is the policy you make clear: You decide an ILO agreement, probably knowing that you will not fulfill it. I'm coming back to my colleague, Nürnberger. Mr Nürnberger has made quite a few correct comments, but not enough. - Yeah, all right. [[Abg. Nürnberger: For that there is for you that you supplement!]] If I remember correctly, you have repeatedly pointed out in the public debates that the consultation of workers and their organs was a major problem in the case of Lassing. [[Abg. Nürnberger: I said that today too! Didn't you listen?]] Of course I listened! But we should also do that. [[Abg. Nuremberg: Of course! I wanted it too!]] Of course you can write in somewhere, that is necessary – but it is not fulfilled. What is it like, Mrs Federal Minister and Mr. Nürnberger, with the approach of mines by accident insurance institutions? – According to the General Social Insurance Act, the accident insurance provider would have the opportunity to access a mine at any time if it is appropriate, i.e. if there is a risk, or if the accident insurance provider says: We believe that we need to look at the mine, there are a number of accident reports, we want to go in there. The General Insurance Act states: Yes, the accident insurance company must have this possibility. The Berggesetz, Mr. Absence Minister, says: No, the accident insurance provider cannot enter, he must first ask the mountain authority if he is allowed to enter. Ladies and gentlemen! As you explain, everything in terms of worker protection, to which employment protection is guaranteed, but the most primitive prerequisites that such protection can actually take place are not guaranteed!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Nürnberger, you say quite right: For Untertagbergbau we should first break the competence of the Bergbehörde in terms of worker protection, because the biggest problem is indeed – also in the case of Lassing – that the Bergbehörde not only controls, inspects, but also does not do so with regard to the protection of workers. And then you explain: We fulfil all the conditions for the protection of workers, for this agreement for the protection of mines. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you get this idea? Another point, because everything is not that right over the earth, but the real problem is naturally under the earth. It is stated in the documents of the Federal Ministry for Labour and Social Affairs in the interpretation of the Convention: The employer must construct and equip the mine in such a way, including a communication system, that the conditions for safe operation are met. Then the Central Labour Inspectorate explains what "Communication System" means, and that is a little medieval – with permission. Communication system also means speech and eye contact, handsigns et cetera. – Yes, of course, this kind of communication we make in here. We probably do not need more modern forms of communication in terms of our potential for danger among ourselves, but that was precisely the debate in underground mining: that more modern forms of communication would have been necessary. Therefore, if reference is made to this: You can talk anyway, you can give signs – and these are communication systems that are necessary and necessary for mining – then this may still be valid for mining above day. There you can probably – even though it is not everywhere; especially in the gravel mining it is relatively loud – still with eye contact, with signs or with acclaims, but it is not possible under the earth, ladies and gentlemen. You know that too, and therefore these requirements for mining under the earth are not fulfilled by the reference to talking, giving signs and eye contact. This is not a modern communication system, but we need it – and you know it. If you still explain: Our mistake in 1997 when we did not want to ratify it – against the opposition did not want to ratify it! – was it that we interpreted this too carefully at the time – now we see the whole thing a little bit more relaxed, we don’t want to see it so carefully anymore, but rather a little more cloudy, more flatter, wider, and we don’t want to fulfill every detail anymore – if you still explain it, then that’s just after Lassing the reason and the real problem for this debate, ladies and gentlemen. This is certainly the reason for us Greens to vote against the ratification at the present time. We do not do this because we did not consider this debate necessary, but because we believe that you do not wish to translate this ILO Convention into individual legislation as in recent years. This accusation is less to the Federal Minister sitting here than to the missing Minister of State, who has the real responsibility for underground mining, but is still not prepared to accept this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. And that's not all right!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8884	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. If the speaking time is exhausted, then the urgent question is called. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8906	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to say that we are pleased that at least now, with a little more than a year's delay, this Convention is finally ratified and, contrary to the Federal Government's recommendation of 1 January 1990. October – not only a note is made. I would like to say one thing to my colleague, Drinkl, clearly and clearly: As he said today that the Austrian People's Party would have been ready for ratification in 1997, I have not remembered your comments and comments at the committee meeting. I remember that a report by the Federal Government is in place – it has now been withdrawn – which clearly and clearly did not confirm ratification, but rather the notice. I also remember that some of the Social Democratic Members in the Committee and the closed opposition felt that this was not enough. The positions you verbally represented by the Austrian People's Party at the time, Mr Drinkl, were at least so declared that what you said in plenary today was not comprehensible to me at that time. But I take note that you have now become a better person and actually agree with that. I do not want to say here, too, that Mr Nürnberger, at the time, also played a significant part in the fact that it was finally postponed that not only has been taken note of, but is finally ratified today. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am grateful to you that you have, in the near future, listed the relevant points, at least those which were opposed to ratification in 1997. I should like to remind you that at the time of our discussions in the Spanish Committee, we had already ratified them. This agreement also clearly states that, in the case of ratification by two countries, the content of the Convention would have been implemented in the appropriate form. I would also like to refer to what has always been brought to the meeting in the discussion about Lassing: It would have been helpful in Lassing if one had not had the card system, but a system of orientation and positioning, so that one would have known where the miners stayed for days, where they could have been found at the time and could have been saved. It would have been helpful if the appropriate additional emergency outputs had been available. It would have been helpful if what is to be ratified and what was then contentious, namely the current plans for the future and emergency plans for the newly opened prospect areas, i.e. also for the 1a disc and the operations approved there, were present in the place and in the mine and were available to rescue teams. I do not therefore believe that everything should be considered so far away from the discussion on Lassing, but that it should be noted that, if the Convention had been ratified in 1997 and transposed into national law in time, it would have been very helpful. Mrs. Federal Minister! Allow me to point out another aspect. I worry about it – and with me a lot of people in former mining regions are worried about it – what happens when the mines are tufted down. I believe that since Austrian mountain law is not sufficient to ensure that the appropriate arrangements are not sufficient to prevent subsequent natural disasters, subsequent water breakthroughs and breakthroughs. I would remind you, for example, of the closure of the salinities in Hall in Tyrol, where the drinking water supply of the whole municipality, at least a city with more than 10,000 inhabitants, has been contaminated with brine. In the end, the public authorities had to pay for the rehabilitation measures because there were no plans, nor had a review of the mined salt mine taken by the mountain authorities. Similar conditions are also available in other mining areas. I therefore believe that it is high time that we were ratified, but finally we will be able to assess all of this only when we see what is actually being implemented in national law as regards the points which have not yet been satisfactorily resolved by the reorganisation of mountain rights and also by the re-regulation of workers' rights in this area. A first correct step is taken. I regret, on behalf of the liberals, that this step will be taken by one year and two months too late.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8958	High house! I now interrupt the negotiations on agenda item 5 and come to the call for an urgent question. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen and Comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior on the supervisory powers of the security authorities (5225/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e8985	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 5225/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9484	I call Mr Van der Bellen. According to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9505	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "The true state-law structure of a community is revealed in the handling of the security police," wrote Ludwig Adamovich in 1970. And he continued: "Here are the last loopholes of the state conception, which one has faced with the increasingly growing rule of law by the name "Police State." – Oh, dear Ludwig!, one would like to say there. At that time, in 1970, the development of the police state was still, in some way, an economic barrier. The police state of the 1960s and early 1970s has still failed in its enormous cost. The lovers of criminal novels and criminal films know how difficult it is to observe a suspect physically for 24 hours. To do this, you need at least six officials in the three-layer operation – and then, even if you can watch him, it's hard to hear what he or she is talking to other people. This is or has been a very labor-intensive, very expensive and complete way of observing. If you think that despite 500,000 informers, the former GDR has ultimately failed to keep its state formation under control, you have to think about it. The GDR, so to speak, the last incarnation of the old Metternich – one can only say: the hopefully last incarnation of the old Metternich! –, didn't make it. But how does it look today? – The times when someone had to break into an apartment laboriously in order to put on a cheek or some technical hearing aid, are over for a long time! No one's concerned with such a child's stuff! A modern parabolic microphone stops over 1 kilometer of distance, and so-called laser microphones listen through closed windows! - Yes, yes, I read myself too. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] So-called stroboscope cameras can take hundreds of photos in seconds, i.e., hold each individual demonstrator photographically – regardless of how slow or fast he moves. If you are aware of what is already on surveillance cameras in many places today – in the subway stations, in the banks, in front of official buildings, in front of embassies, not to mention various traffic control systems for traffic monitoring – everything may be useful and necessary, but if you consider what networking possibilities exist, which are already technically possible and will be quite inexpensive in five years, and if you still consider what possibilities in monitoring modern telecommunications – from the phone to fax, e-mail and so on; but the mobile phones are given in particular – in short, in the Jargon: what possibilities the so-called algorithmic surveillance offers, then you realize that today there is a historically unprecedented opportunity to monitor the citizen: an unprecedented possibility, from Metternich and the old kumpane in the GDR could not even dream! If you realize that, you're gonna be all the different. For yourself, many of these things may be useful. When Siemens, for example, established a traffic control system in the place of Heavenly Peace, Siemens could not know the consequences that this monitoring system would later, in 1989, serve to systematically detect, track, arrest and destroy dissidents. We will not be able to abandon modern methods of traffic monitoring and control systems. We will not be able to prohibit such modern control methods. But, Mr Federal Minister, our whole effort must go to prevent the possibility of abuse of such systems from integrating these modern surveillance systems into a rule of law – a structure that guarantees that in Austria and throughout the European Union, the "heavenly peace" can never break out! If you look in the novel to the police power law or in the novel to the security police law for such a state-of-the-art taming, then you won't find it. There's nothing in the novel on the security police law. What we simply find there are new surveillance rules under the title "Security Review" or under the title "Government Information", and only the most far-reaching point, the so-called general risk investigation, was dropped by you, Mr. Federal Minister, but not voluntarily, but because, according to your own statement, you were unable to enforce provisionally the concerns of the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Service. As part of the security review, virtually every person who performs non-exhaustive services will be able to undergo a police review in the future and may have to be subjected to the request of private companies. Federal Minister! They will reply that this is not true because the person concerned has to give his or her consent. But in the current situation of the labour market, I ask you: Which person will then be able to refuse their consent? – This concerns not only the persons to be checked, but also their family members. It can be asked and checked who lives with and how long and who is the respective roommate. [[Call to the Freeman:Newborn!]] I do not think that these tasks should be brought into line with the conventional tasks of the police. The second point concerns the so-called government information. I have to say: If it were not so tragic, you would have to try to make a cabaret out of it! – The government information serves to inform all government members – including state governments, national leaders – of circumstances that are important for maintaining the reputation of the national leaders and the state or federal government. – I repeat: to preserve the reputation of members of the government. – I ask you: Is there a more definite legal concept than this one? It will, I believe, once again be opening an exhibition here in Parliament on Monday. Thus, if this law were already in force, the President of the National Council, for example, could instruct the security police to check to all the persons who were registered – in fact all the unregistered – whether they were able to reduce the status of the Federal Government or of the National Council Presidents. I can only say: In these circumstances, it may be appropriate to inform all citizens of this country and recommend that they avoid any physical, direct and indirect contact with members of the government in the future. Because if they don't, they run the risk of being checked on their hearts and kidneys, as it's so beautiful to say, what they haven't done in the past or could do in the future. They should be told that there is an act on this and that it will be presented to the politicians concerned. All of these are tasks which, in my opinion, cannot be reconciled with traditional police powers, and we believe that they are simply advocating the idea of tips. Federal Minister! We do not need any rubber regulations to extend state police powers under the title "General Research on Dangers"! This is simply a free letter for state police activities, as the army intelligence services would like them to be! What we need instead is to explore concrete dangers, for example, by taking office and abuse of office, which are active. We have at least one case in which the staff of the Army Defense Office dress up as state politicians and in this way have tried to obtain information. [[Abg. Madl: How to dress up as a state politician?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you also a state politician?]] - I don't know how to dress up as such. That's a good question! – In any case, they have spent themselves as such, and it depends on that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] It may be that the specific case has occurred before your term of office, Minister Schlögl. But the question is: Is there any such cases today? What would you do in such a case? Call the Minister of Defence and say: Go, Werner, let this be in the future, please!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or has the State Police been asked to clarify the abuse of office in question and to determine the premise of office? Have you or your predecessor paid ad against these persons? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Or do you rely on the fact that, according to the real Cuban manner, nothing comes out when the army intelligence services find out, and that, according to the method known for a few weeks, no later than when the competent minister leaves, the information is packed into a box and taken home, there in the basement, or at least in the basement of the responsible party academy? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! If you adhere to the facts you have announced yourself, you know that 27 000 security officers have access to the various data information systems and that 93 000 accesses are made daily. How do you want to ensure that this data is not misused? We already know today of numerous cases where data has been illegally identified, where data has been unlawfully processed, have been unlawfully transmitted – e.g. by security authorities to citizenship authorities – or in which data has not been unlawfully deleted. And we have been aware for a few days now that data has been misused by officials of the Ministry of the Interior for years, that is, sold. I ask you: What about this in the novel to the Security Police Act? – Nothing is in the novel – except the establishment of a Human Rights Advisory Council, which we naturally have long called for and is also welcomed. I do not want to go into this now, but the composition of this advisory board is a cause for the worst fears, because you yourself will be ordering at least half of the members of this advisory board. Federal Minister! Within the framework of the EU Presidency, your place of business is and you have personally noticed that you have presented a so-called strategy paper with a restriction on asylum law, which you subsequently had to withdraw. What to Remember Do you still want to be positive about protecting citizens' rights during the rest of the Austrian Presidency, or at least, if that is not your heart, in connection with the protection of the economic interests of Austria and other EU countries? You must know, however, that the indications are that American intelligence services and intelligence services do not only use European telecommunications networks – they can do so – but rather listen to and tap them, not only to combat terrorism, which would be legitimate for themselves, and not only to tap into the discussions of Amnesty International, which is already legitimate in no way, and not only to sharpen companies active in the production of arms or in the trade of weapons, but also, above all, to industrial espionage in a large way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] I refer to a document from the European Parliament, which, in turn, mentioning internationally accessible sources, claims that, for example, discussions between Volkswagen and General Motors on joint business relations were heard, Thompson-CSF, the French electronics company, complained that they had not received an order in Brazil of one and a half billion dollars, because the Americans had stopped the details of the negotiations and passed on to competition, or that Airbus Industry had not received a 1 billion dollar contract for similar reasons. – You must think of this, Mr Federal Minister, even if you are indifferent to the rights of citizens as such. Even if some of the cases mentioned do not apply or only half of them are true, you have to think about that. But we miss the relevant activities of yours at EU level. Not to mention the fact that for two years since the beginning of 1997, the signs and rumors have been compacted, claiming that the European Union has made a secret agreement to set up an international telephone call network. – Is that right, Minister of State, or is that wrong? What is stated in the ENFOPOL 112 10037/95 agreement of 25. October 1995? Is it true that this agreement is still being concluded? If no, please let us know the content! If so, why? Is it really the objective of your policy to extend the objective of the Social Democrats in Austria – and not only in Austria, but within the European Union – to extend all police rights, but not in parallel to the necessary civil rights, the citizens' information rights and the corresponding information obligations of the police authorities and other authorities? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I come back to the beginning, to Ludwig Adamovich's statement in 1970: "The true state-law structure of a community is revealed in the handling of the security police. Here you will find the last loophole of that state-conception, which you have faced with the increasingly winning rule of law by the name of the "Police State." That was said 28 years ago. I wonder if from today's point of view this was not too optimistic. We of the Greens do not have the impression, Mr Federal Minister, that, in Adamovich's speech, you are hiding the last corner of the police state that you are doing this in the service of a rule of law which deserves this name. Federal Minister! On the contrary, we have the impression that you are trying to revive the old Metternite step by step, whether with intention or inadvertently, consciously or unconsciously. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A joke!]] Federal Minister! I can only tell you: The Greens are opposed to their bitter resistance! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9633	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Schlögl in word. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9654	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to the urgent question of the Greens concerning the security authorities' supervisory powers, I would like to make a few comments before dealing with them in concrete terms. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The right of people to safety, to protection against crime and violence is a central concern in our society. We do not want a society in which, for example, the strong suppress the weak in which people, and in particular women, cannot move free of fear. New social situations, new technologies mean new challenges for executives. In my opinion, in order to meet these challenges successfully, it is not only a new technical equipment, but not only a more intensive, better training of our executive officials, but also an adaptation of the legal situation to these new requirements. In particular, the Minister of the Interior, but also Parliament, must ensure that democratic fundamental rights are not restricted but preserved and strengthened with all the support for the work of the Executive. I become the rule of law of Austria, democracy and an executive who fulfils its legal tasks on a rule of law and under strict democratic and democratic control. I have so far resisted any loopdown of the rule of law and I will continue to oppose myself in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, no extension of police powers has occurred since the law came into force on the expanded powers of investigation, i.e. noise attack and grid arrest. All the measures proposed in the amendment to the Security Police Act are adaptations that are necessary due to the relocation of tasks, privatisations and changes in the character of crime. It is the adaptations that will allow security authorities to continue their excellent work in the interests of the security of our country. However, they do not constitute an extension or an extension of powers. It is probably the rate of conventional crime, as you rightly represent in your question, that has fallen significantly and steadily in recent years, while at the same time it has been successful in improving the education rate, but we must be aware that there is a substantial change in the form of crime and the quality of crime in our country. This has also led Parliament to decide that special methods of investigation are necessary. I would like to point out that these methods of investigation can only be used under qualified and accompanying legal protection. I have also tried to take into account all the concerns that have just been expressed by the opposition side to these particular methods of investigation. Ladies and gentlemen! I also think that the following is important, especially in the direction of the Green MEPs: The draft of this law for the special investigation methods was not presented by Minister of the Interior Schlögl, but by my predecessor and the Minister of Justice to the National Council and by me, together with you, in very long, very difficult and very intensive discussions in one area or another. I remember very, very well, as Mr Ofner, Mrs Fekter, Mr Fuhrmann, and many others have done together to adapt the draft which was originally presented in such a way that it is at least supported by the majority of this House. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But, Minister, only with very modest success! Regrettably!]] I can say that there have been a number of changes in this context that seem very important to me. Two of them I would like to delete. First: We have introduced the body of an accompanying legal protection officer who has the task of carrying out an additional control, in addition to the control of the law, when such investigation methods are applied. And second – that seems much more important to me –: We have limited this law until the year 2001, and it must therefore be discussed again about extending this law here in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the critics did not want that! That's cosmetics!]] I therefore believe that the accusation that this law had not been discussed in detail is in no way right. Nor do I see the concerns expressed in connection with the amendment to the Security Police Act, because I think it is crucial and important that every law and every formulation be taken. I do not claim to represent the truth and the right alone, but I believe that it is necessary and important that we discuss everything together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl]] That is why we have also discussed in great detail in the context of the review, which is why a draft amendment was presented in the Council of Ministers, and it is now in the parliamentary procedure. As part of this parliamentary procedure, we all have the opportunity, in particular you, Mr Van der Bellen, to discuss the different opinions which I do not wish to take away from the table, but which I would like to deal with, and in one way or another to make changes. I can use at least for myself – even if this is interpreted by some as a weakness – that all the laws presented by our side, by the Ministry of the Interior, during the time I am responsible for them were discussed in great detail and I was always prepared to respond to the proposals for the criticism of the opposition and also to the corresponding changes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can't see why this shouldn't be the case with the amendment to the Security Police Act. What is also very important to me, because very much – consciously or unconsciously, out of ignorance or very consciously – is falsified and mixed in the Security Police Act and the Novelle: The constitutionally guaranteed right to inviolability of the telecommunications secret is in no way affected by this novelle! It is not about a hearing without judicial order and without judicial order, it is not about that we can make a recall data collection through this novelle without judicial order, but it is only about that, despite the privatisation of the post, we have the opportunity to access master data in few specific exceptional cases. Common data are: Name, address and telephone number. That means in no way that we want mediation data or content data. If we need these, Mr Kier, then only under judicial control and by judicial order. Otherwise, this has in no way been regulated in any law or planned by us. I would like to keep this very, very clear. The same applies to enlargement in other areas, such as the relocation of tasks by the removal of Schengen borders. Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to point out that this amendment to the Security Police Act serves in any way to ensure that the Austrian executive receives additional powers, or that this goes towards the police state, firmly back! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that some 27 000 officials have access to various data information systems of the Ministry of the Interior. It is also in line with the fact that every day the 93 000 surveys in the data systems take place. A restriction seems difficult to me in this area, and I think it would also make the work of the security authorities much more difficult. But – and this is very important to me, Mr Kier, because you asked for the "black box"! – every access – I would like to stress this again – is comprehensible, is logged, documented and stored for three years, so that this requirement of the "black box", as you have put it, is already fulfilled in this area. The fact that we can control this access at any time has also led to the fact that we have been able to detect the data abuse by the two officials of the Ministry of the Interior. Since the introduction of the automated data system, our control bodies have carried out sample checks. But I admit – and I will never be able to guarantee this – that these 93 000 daily accesses cannot be properly controlled for their purpose, purposefulness and correctness. Our task must be to make every effort to ensure that abuse is excluded as far as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to react to this affair with my house as soon as possible, and I can guarantee you that I am personally very interested in a restless reconnaissance of this causa. Above all, because only a restless and merciless clarification of these causas is a warning to all other officials that this Ministry of the Interior, that this Minister of the Interior, that we will not all accept in any way that data abuse will be tolerated in our area! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why we have also tried to put in place a number of measures, for example, an intensification of the supervision of the service, which requires all the commanders of the Gendarmerie post, all police officers to have an increased oversight of the service. With immediate effect, we have strengthened the manual control according to the random principle. In the medium term, we will introduce a kind of random generator – I hope over the next few weeks and months – which guarantees that, according to an intelligent automated system, no one is sure that he is not suddenly controlled. We have implemented the Data Protection Commission and will discuss further measures together with it and, if appropriate, implement them. Finally, I will also try to speed up the question, namely the question of citizens who are allowed to make them legal and who unfortunately take too long. I believe that this catalogue of measures will help to guarantee at least some better protection mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen! The constantly repeated claims that Austria is on its way to a police state and that the rule of law is being undermined, therefore, does not correspond to the facts and I expressly reject them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also strongly point out that the Austrian security authorities are part of the democratic rule of law. I will never allow this anchoring of Austrian executives to change in our democratic system in the future. In detail, I now answer the questions as follows: Question 1: In the present case, all the security authorities’ surveys were carried out exclusively on the service of criminal justice, specifically on behalf of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters. All the investigation results of the security authorities were communicated to the said court under the corresponding number of operations. The court proceedings are at the stage of an ongoing preliminary investigation. The investigations by the security authorities in the criminal justice service have also not yet been completed. I am not responsible for answering this question with regard to the comments already made. On question 2: Due to the ongoing and not yet completed investigations as well as the lack of legal obligation on the part of the Interior, it is currently – I emphasize – not intended to inform the persons concerned. Questions 3 and 10: The security review of private and civil servants serves to maintain public security, namely the defence of commuting or organised crime or the preventive protection against dangerous attacks, with particular reference to private companies, in particular, to the criminal record of § 124 StGB, namely, "discovery of business or business secrets in favour of foreign affairs". In general, it should be noted that the circle of legally permissible security checks with the government template attached to the National Council should in no way be extended to a novel to the Security Police Act. The aim of the amendment is merely to achieve a differentiated depth of the review in accordance with the individual security requirements. In addition, any such security review should have a declaration and consent of the or the data subject on the legal condition in future. Question 4: An understanding is not provided by law because the law assumes that the person concerned is aware of this measure through the personal presence in the recognition service treatment. Question 5: Identification service data which are not fully consistent with the new legal situation under the Drugs Act will be deleted. This process, however, is particularly difficult and lengthy in view of the large number of storages and the review of the data stored before the entry into force of the Drugs Act on the admissibility of the new legal situation. However, it shall ensure that unauthorised or processed data is deleted as soon as possible. An understanding of the persons concerned of the deletion is not provided by law, but according to § 73 of the Security Police Act, there is a right to request information about it. On question 6: I have ordered that the relevant files be made available for this incident so that they can be reviewed by the relevant department. Therefore, I am not yet able to say why the recognition service treatment took place in these cases, but as soon as I have a result, I will inform you in writing. Questions 7 and 9: Austria's data protection law builds on the Authority's obligation to delete data without delay, with this obligation independent of whether the data in question has already been identified unlawfully or may not be further processed under later circumstances. In addition, everyone and every person concerned has a right to information. Question 8: The background to the procedure criticised in this request is obviously the regulation of § 10 of the Citizenship Act, which requires whether a citizen constitutes a threat to public security. In order to determine this situation, the security authorities must be involved in the investigation. However, I would like to point out that the Administrative Court has already found several times that neither a conviction nor the eradication of such a danger is relevant to the assessment of this danger. On the question 11: The government information does not serve to carry out security police tasks. The government information is one - I add - to inform members of the Federal Government or the State Government of the legal tasks to be fulfilled by these, in particular as regards their official travel abroad. Only open sources may be used for this purpose. Question 12: It is the expression criticised in the request that is a keyword which should make the task clear to the intrudering institution. This expression is – I emphasize – not publicly available; nevertheless, I think it is wrong and will cause a change in the name. On the question 13: As a result, § 58 para. 1 Z 7 Security Police Act shall be restricted to the data sets in question five years after the search for the exitee has been found for the access of the security authorities as a contracting authority. According to § 58 of the Security Police Act, such personal data sets shall be checked after six years for the further existence of the conditions of a blocking if the data controller is not found. Question 14: There has been no further evidence to date that such an investigation would have seemed necessary. Personal discussions with my predecessors have largely already taken place in this regard. Question 15: According to my information, a survey by the former Minister of the Interior Soronics revealed that no Stapo-acts are stored in the Political Academy of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, that's what we mean!]] Rather, Soronics has prepared for a lecture at the Academy using his documents. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Can you repeat this?]] – I have only such information. In the event that you have any other information, I ask you to submit it to me as soon as possible so that I can initiate the relevant investigations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the question 16: In earlier years, such claims were made in a single way. However, the reviews in contact with the military services have remained ineffective to my knowledge. On the question 17: The answer is yes. On the question 18: In the context of security checks on the basis of the provisions of the Security Police Act and in addition due to a 1994 Convention as a transitional arrangement until the entry into force of a military power law. [[Abg. Wabl: "Was it"? There's no one yet!]] – Until the regulation by means of a military power law. [[Abg. Koppler: Listen, Mr. Wabl!]] The answer is: This is done in the context of security checks and under the provisions of the Security Police Act, namely § 53, and in addition by means of a 1994 meeting between our ministries. The Convention shall serve as a transitional arrangement until the legislation of a military power law. [[Abg. Wabl: Now it's right!]] This fact, Mr President, proves how important it is to pass a military power law and how important it is that this matter has a clear legal basis. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Wabl]] I do not know what to laugh at if I ask that there be a clear legal basis on an area. That must be in our common interest. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: How long has it been, the Military Power Act?]] That is why I stress the importance of finally regulating it and of finally creating a clear legal basis here in Parliament. [[Abg. Wabl: How long has it been? How long have you been operating in the lawless room?]] On question 19: The case referred to was the occasion for an examination by the Data Protection Commission. As a result of the results, the previously existing access has been removed. Such access to EKIS data has not existed for a number of years. Question 20: The draft military authority law is the Federal Ministry of the Interior on 20 July. ==References== The process of opinion formation has not yet been completed, but the position of the Federal Ministry of the Interior will be communicated to the National Council at the latest at the end of the assessment period. On questions 21 to 27 and questions 29 to 34, I would ask you to understand that the answer to these questions did not appear to me due to the short preparation time available to me. I will answer these questions in writing immediately. On the question 28: No one can give you or I can't give you a guarantee of this kind. It is equally obvious, however, that the behaviour described as a violation of the telecommunications secret is criminal and therefore must be the subject of security and criminal police activity. On questions 35 to 39: The extension of the operational powers of EUROPOL cannot therefore be said because EUROPOL does not currently have operational powers. In accordance with Article 30(3), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of the EU Treaty as amended by the Amsterdam Treaty, the Council will open up certain possibilities in advance of executive powers within five years of the entry into force of this EUROPOL Treaty. I cannot see a danger to fundamental and civil rights in the content of the Amsterdam Treaty outlined above. In particular, the EUROPOL Convention opens up very large rights and legal protection instruments to the person affected by the use of personal data by EUROPOL. The Treaty of Amsterdam continues to strengthen the position of the European Court of Justice in the third pillar legal protection system, which I personally consider very welcome and important. On question 40: The answer is a clear no.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9857	Thank you very much, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. I recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, according to which each club has a maximum speaking time of 25 minutes and each speaker a 10 minutes. Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maximum speaking time, as I said, 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e9884	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Right at the beginning of my remarks, I would like to point out what I somehow felt to be the most remarkable, the most terrifying, to the Federal Minister's answer: that he obviously finds nothing to include in his reply a point which I consider to be clear, clear and unmistakably unconstitutional. [[Abg. Kiss: You?]] - Yes, I am. [[Abg. Kiss: Who says that?]] Mr Kiss, I think – and if you listen to me, you will come to a similar view – that, as I believe, the behaviour of every administrative authority, especially where possible restrictions – even possible limitations – require a legal mandate. [[Abg. Kiss: I'm curious about what's coming back for a surprise!]] I believe, Mr Kiss, that you are as I believe that this is enshrined in Article 18 of the Federal Constitutional Act. If the Federal Minister is now very clearly aware that it is also in the knowledge that there is no military authority law, I ask you: What is the legal basis of the 1994 Convention? - I don't know anyone. Federal Minister! This is illegal what happened here! It's unconstitutional! The evil thing is that there seems to be no more injustice. These are the danger moments I really see: if this awareness that something bad, something bad is going on here is no longer given! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Apart from the fact that it is not applicable to the specific case, because the Causa Pollet-Kammerlander happened before 1994, and at that time there was not even this illegal, unconstitutional agreement. What makes me so unsavory, however, is the self-evidentness with which this is said. Mr Federal Minister, in your general statement on this urgent question, you said that the citizens had a right to safety. – Yes, Minister of State, they have. Only: Is this not also a right to privacy protection? And, above all, Minister of State: What does this right to security mean? Did the claimed victims of the Riegerbank not have a right to security? Why is there warnings – and there were those, Mr Parnigoni, or not? – not taken seriously? Why? I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Vienna did not kill Kurds any right to security, Mr. Federal Minister, and above all: Did the perpetrators have a higher interest in protecting them from being brought to the airport with police escorts? Who, then, determines the legitimate right to security? Whose security will be protected? Are there people who are more, and others who are less vulnerable? And above all: Which devices – of which you say: can't be said, we don't know – are involved here? Is not even the illegal collection of data to be reported? – On the note that persons will have known for themselves that they were victims of an official act: Perhaps among them are young people who were not at all aware of the importance of the action, or the people who are described in these files as the escaped mental illness. Not even those are informed! What is the right to security, Mr. Federal Minister? - Everybody? [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: I said: everyone!]] Okay. I have mentioned to you some cases of citizens, of people whose security in that country was apparently less valuable. Or: We have just discussed Lassing's employees before. There were rumors all over the place, every day. Only: Where should these people go if they were faced with a group that can now use the security check in the serious case? [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Federal Minister! It's always the question, whose clues, whose suspicions are considered. My perception is that a warning that comes seriously from endangered companies, from the arms industry, from the pharmaceutical industry, perhaps from a member of the government. [[Abg. Haigermoser: From the Ministry of Health, from the Ministry of Social Affairs!]] Who was legally monitored? You know that just as well as I am, Mr Federal Minister; it is animal protection organisations; it is genetic engineering in relation to critical organizations; it was nuclear-opponents, like Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander, from which we have a black on it! Are the opponents of nuclear power plants really more dangerous than the operators of nuclear power plants? Mr. Federal Minister, I'm advocating this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Are there operators of nuclear power plants with us?]] Mr Federal Minister, there are very powerful economic lobbies that are consistent and companies that support the activities of these nuclear power plants, which are active here under the heading "refitting of security". Of course, the commercial interests of these groups exist in Austria. I am looking at who and whose safety is protected here: the company Siemens or Framatome or that of an atomic-critical initiative? You know that, too, who are the cameras of the army and the Stapo! Mr Federal Minister, you say you have no information on concrete data flows and also incorrect personal designations in the activities of the Army Defense Office. Why does this information come only to us? Why, do you think, are there people who have read in their own Stapo act a cross-reference to file of the Army Defense Office who have noticed the number of files? But if they ask for this in writing, there is no longer any more! Then the Minister of Defence tells us: We don't have any files! – Only about Mrs Pollet-Kammerlander was there such an act: the only Austrian about which there is such a thing! [[Abg. Koppler: That's not true! There's also an act from me!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said there was an act?]] Faith You do? Mr Federal Minister, it is always the same procedure: First of all, we demand immense – and, of course, there was also the call data tracking included – then comes a bold protest. As a result, cancellations are made – yes, it is true. But what remains is enough, that's enough! I would like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, as a responsible member of the government, especially as social democrats, to think about how this is going and why this call from the Greens is deeply serious. There was a long development, first of all the rights of the person, of the French Revolution on the bourgeois code books at the beginning of the 19th century. ==References== It was a struggle to achieve that: the rights of each individual, regardless of status, gender, race, religion. It then followed the struggle for fundamental rights, for civil liberties in the constitutional drafts of the 19th century. ==References== Today, I say, we need new fundamental rights, social rights, as it once proposed by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. That's good in some drawers. We also need environmental fundamental rights! And what are we doing? – We're trying to slow down the rights of the 19th century. 19th century! That is the tragedy, and that social democracy no longer sees what is happening here. It's really the human image we're talking about. Of course, the police have the right and the duty to fight crime. But what kind of human image am I going to take? Can we assume that the occasion must be a real danger? It can't be that, in the face of the cut-off of mouths and I don't know what else, everyone can be expected to be a potential criminal. This returns the achievements of the 19th century. About the 19th century! We have maintained that every person must be free, must be worthy, have fundamental rights, and that it needs concrete evidence from the state in order to do so. Now everything is turning around, now it's all from the boulevard: Those who have nothing to hide can reveal everything! I would ask you to see this development, Mr Federal Minister. I am once again seeking to engage in dialogue with the opposition parties – and I mean not only the names you have mentioned, which in a classic way stand for the extension of police rights, but those who advocate new fundamental rights. Because that would be what this country needs!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10034	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10055	Mrs Petrovic, I will not press ahead with this responsibility, and I will invite you to this dialogue on new fundamental rights. The reason why I spoke in a moment is simply that I believe that you have done very unfairly now, because in your contribution to the debate you have mentioned a lot of things that have been behind for a long time since the end of the 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s. For example, I claim – and I can really say this honestly – that there has been no observation by the state police of nuclear-opponents in the time since I was a minister and no preference for nuclear-powered operators. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's not quite the argument anymore!]] These are simple things that may have happened in the 1980s – I cannot judge or know that at all – which in any current discussion are in no way necessary or important. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Waste dumps, road construction – that’s the question!]] If there are warnings, I am just a guarantee that I will follow every warning. They can't prove me a case – because there's no one – in which I didn't try to make a specific suspicion immediately to initiate the relevant investigations and to clarify these things with no help. I didn't care if that came from this political side or from your political side – I've been following all these things and have tried to explain openly, transparently and mercilessly what is to be explained. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] [[Call to the liberals: Voice, yes!]] I would like to reject the suggestion made by you that I do not take warnings seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to say one more thing that seems important to me personally: I think it is a mistake if you say that security does not want to be given to all people. It is my aim – and I believe that the overwhelming majority of this House, if not all in this House, wants to have it – that security is also an important fundamental human right, and I believe it is not only about combating crime and crime, but also about the best possible protection of national borders, but for me, security is a very comprehensive concept, whether it is environmental security or social security, employment and so on. But what you have done today, namely to throw Lassing, the terrible murder of the Kurds in 1989 and the Riegerbank into a pot, is also unacceptable. I would like to hold the debate with you – probably we cannot lead it from the government bank to the opposition bank here – but tell me how the Austrian executive could have acted preventively in individual cases with the current legal instruments earlier, preventively. I hardly see this possibility. There may have been failures, I would like to hear these failures and I am also willing to respond to them. But I see no way how the executive could have acted differently here. The last thing I'd like to say concerns the oral cord, the DNA analysis: I know that it is perhaps a thorn in the eye of some of you, not you, that the Austrian executive is very successful with the DNA analysis that we have introduced as the second country in Europe. We have already been able to solve a number of terrible sexual crimes, we have already been able to solve a number of terrible criminal offences – murders and the like. However, the mouthline is not intended for people who have not been blamed, but it is intended exclusively for those who have become severely criminal or suspected of being hard to deal with. He is intended exclusively for these persons.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10138	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10163	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has now made his speech and has dealt with some of the unsustainable accusations made by the Greens' Club. For it is as the Minister of the Interior mentioned: Of course, the citizen of our state has a fundamental right to freedom – of course! – but it is also a fundamental right of the citizen to seek protection from crime. This protection against crime cannot be acquired anywhere in a wholesale market, but protection from crime has certain conditions; Preconditions based on legislation, conditions to be found in the organization of our executive apparatus, and ultimately conditions which lie with individual citizens themselves, to what extent he is willing to cooperate with the executive, and to what extent he is willing to accept the fundamental rights and laws of our country. Because you once again addressed the Kurdish murders to bring a placardial example here from the speaker's desk, I would like to remind you that it was your group that it was your club – I do not know if you were there – who at least received a mass killer like Bani Sadr in Vienna, who invited him to lunch. I don't know what you have with such people on the hat, what you have to discuss with such people, but that must be remembered to you once again. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: In addition to the great concern about the workplace, ensuring internal security is a very important concern for Austrian citizens. The executive, which is responsible for this security, has a very high reputation within the Austrian population. This has resulted in a survey carried out only a few weeks ago. For example, almost 80 percent of the respondents are very satisfied or satisfied with the work of the Austrian executive, and this gives the executive a good witness and does not confirm what you today put in your urgent request of the executive. At all events, your request today is a so-called herb-and-rubber request, because it goes across the safety-political basement without actually asking specific questions. It is all possible contained in it, from international crime to the data clause, and all 33,724 executive officials are thrown into a pot. In reality, however, it was only two officials who set up a criminal act. In addition, it was the interior resort itself that provided for its reconnaissance. No one from outside has discovered this, but the interior has cleared this case. The officials are suspended and will be given a just punishment. I am opposed to the fact that the executive is now generally accused – as you have done repeatedly – of sharing data. [[Abg. Wabl: No one claims this in general!]] It was two officials who set up a criminal act, and these will now be held responsible, but not the entire executive. [[Abg. Wabl: No one claims this in general! This is the oldest and most unfair Redemanive that exists!]] If you report in your urgent question concerns about the Security Police Act, although there will still be enough time to discuss it here in the House and in the Committee – the draft has not yet arrived with us; we will be able to discuss it in great detail – if you already have concerns about further enlargements of police powers today, then, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but also those of the Liberals, you should read the last issue of the weekly "Format" magazine. It also published the result of a survey which states that two thirds of the Austrians want the powers of the police to be expanded. Two thirds of the Austrians demand that we give the police further, better means of combating crime! You should look at this survey and its results. In your urgent request today, I think you will come to strange conclusions at all. They believe in the introduction that there is no reason, in fact, to extend police powers, because crime development is already a decline and the rate of information is rising. - That's right! But this has not come of about, ladies and gentlemen of the green movement! The conclusion you draw from the fact that, because of the need for fewer police and no other police powers, it is a false one because the executive was changed because its structures were changed, because a number of special deployment groups such as the EBS, the EDOK, the SEG, the EBT and the Gendarmerie command in Wiener Neustadt were set up, were allowed to work more efficiently, which resulted in the crime rate falling and the recovery rate increased. I believe that this is a good way forward, and we are very happy about it. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world because we have such an executive, and we want to give our executive at least the same opportunities in the fight against crime as they have the criminals themselves. They also no longer work with old methods, but with the latest ones. And the same thing we want to put our executive in our hands. Ladies and gentlemen! I now take a short note of a statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Farnleitner, which he made in Klagenfurt a few days ago when the new security centre was handed over. Farnleitner has stated there that a few weeks ago in America, 30 top managers have assembled and discussed possible sites for industrial settlements. America, Europe and Austria were selected. There have been a number of points that have spoken for America. Finally, however, the managers chose Austria and Europe. Do you know what was crucial for that? – Security policy in our country! They said that in Austria people could go on the road even after 8:00 and do not have to fear what is not the case in America. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen and Mr Van der Bellen, because you have pointed out that this executive seems to represent our country in such a way that no one wants to come to us anymore. The exact opposite is the case! Because you have complained that there is a spy in the field of industry, which is apparently not being done enough, I must tell you: This too is contrary to your request that you have made here today, because this part of it is very detailed in the upcoming Security Police Act – so detailed that you even think that the private query of data should not come. Unfortunately, I do not have enough speaking time to address the content of the new Security Police Act even more in detail. But we will still have sufficient opportunity to discuss this security police law, and I am convinced that it will be a good, useful law that our executives simply need in order to continue the successful way of combating crime.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10221	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10293	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I welcome the fact that today we are conducting this first discourse that the Greens initiated with their urgent request on fundamental rights, human rights, the rule of law, the police state, as they would have liked. I therefore welcome it because, from the point of view of the EIA, some very important issues can be put down in this context, on the one hand critically, but on the other hand constructively, on the other hand, where it is about giving the Minister of the Interior the appropriate support. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam has already said this, and that is the beginning of this discussion: It is a dual process when Mr Petrovic is mounting that fundamental rights in this state are undermined, that human rights are no longer those which must be granted to the individual, because the Greens, when they invited Bani Sadr, the former Iranian Prime Minister, to Vienna for lunch, did not make any sense that he had killed and persecuted tens of thousands of people in Iran. More people have been killed under his trick than you even have voters. There was no talk of human rights on your part! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you believe that you can conduct this discussion with such dubious arguments in an open way, then you are mistaken. They're going from different positions than us. They are, in principle, the executive that they are opposed to the citizens, and they are of the opinion that they should not be given the means. You would prefer to see our executive using 19th century methods. In the 19th century, organized crime occurs, about as - a plastic example - as if the executive had to go by bicycle if the criminals and the criminals ran away with the Porsche. [[Abg. Wabl: You should not insult the shark! Sourry!]] That's your picture of security! That's what you want! But you can't do this to us in Get your bearing and you will never be able to take advantage of us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! It is true that, in our internal debates, we have always put our fingers very openly in the wounds when there have been wounds. You yourself have said in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: Yes, we made mistakes when it came to control in the Ministry of the Interior! And I say here as security spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party: Federal Minister, there are shortcomings in the control system in the Ministry of the Interior! Mr Federal Minister, there has been serious errors in this data abuse affair! Minister of the Interior, you're doing a good job avoiding this augia bar! You have our support, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I raise a clear demand from the ÖVP here and now. I cannot imagine that there is a company of 33,000 people who have no internal revision. I already admit: You have said that you have instructed the Director-General to use external police forces to control them. But that, Minister of State, is unreasonable from our point of view. I'm also saying why. It is the colleague from Upper Austria who, of course, has made friendships that have grown up in ropes, who knows each other, who not only do not want to hurt each other, but who, if they hurt someone, of course also – apologise that I say so – are going to fall apart within their own executive. We don't want that, that's not our goal! Create You have your own internal revision at the Ministry of the Interior, then you have us at your side, Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Security Police Act itself – and here we stand with you, we have just as deposited in the Council of Ministers – is exactly that instrument, Mr. Federal Minister, that you get your hands on from us and that also gets the executive in hand. We hear again and again that what is planned for enlargements in this "police state", as the Greens call it, is bad. In reality, however, we know that this Security Police Act contains a number of basic improvements for our executives. I wonder that no one in Vorarlberger shouts up, for example, when he hears that this security police law does not do anything. The Vorarlberg colleagues of the parish guards were the ones who have holesd us for years and said: We want to be included in this security police law! We want to be equipped with executive rights, we want to have rights similar to the Gendarmerie and the police! – Now we reach it. That's what we want! This is an essential step forward in the Security Police Act. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Leikam.]] I remember those discussions in this House when the Greens and Liberals asked: Mr. Federal Minister, Deputy Kiss, what's the matter with the Security Academy? You do not create the legal structure, you do not create the organizational framework conditions for this security academy to come! – It will come with the Security Police Act. We have taken this, we have agreed, we stand by it, and it is a good step that all those who in the field of executives really see training as an opportunity for the future can go the way we want – namely: Assembling opportunities within the executive framework so that the smallest official can eventually become a Director-General. That's exactly what we want! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Leikam.]] Federal Minister! I do not want to say that the subject of veiling is something – that leads me back to organized crime – where we expressly support you. It can't be like saying, Now 30 kilometers are reached, beyond that it is not possible! On international routes – that is what the SPÖ says – there must be the possibility for our executives to take action against gangs, criminals, against organized crime, even over 30 kilometres from the veil. These are the means, these are the instruments, these are the possibilities that exist under the Security Police Act, which the Greens do not just want to see, but which they do not mention in the discussion, and that is unfair. They call the keyword "data harvesting", punctuate everything with the keyword "police state" and believe to be able to beat the entire discussion with this baton. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen. In the criticism of data abuse and the control system, we are hard at ÖVP, but we are loyal where it is about internal rights, because of giving the executive the opportunities they need in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10368	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10390	Ladies and gentlemen! It has always been doubted here that all measures to maintain security must also respect the protection of privacy and that they are all legally binding. I think there has never been a discussion on this. But whoever seeks something bad behind everything, it will also be found. I'll tell you a short story from the last century. When Metternich introduced street lighting in Vienna, the liberals suspected that it was once again a bad intervention by the police state to control citizens better. – And that is the same thing as this discussion is happening to me! [[Abg. May. Posch: Do you want to defend the metric?]] I do not defend Metternisch, but I defend the introduction of street lighting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today it will be seen that the technology has brought more blessing than the few secrets that have been exposed with it. So the damage is really very low. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Their fear of the introduction of the police state is similar to the fear of street lighting at the time. You have said of the Greens that you are being bitterly fought against arrest measures. You would probably have fought bitterly against the introduction of street lighting just because it was introduced by Metternich or by Metternich. [[Abg. Wabl: Lord Schlögl is not the Metternich! This is an insult!]] They really want to cause fear from the Greens. Do you know what I think is particularly objectionable: that you are not at all talking about a report which has been presented in Brussels, which has been written in accordance with science fiction manner, in Austria, because you are acting as if the measures described in this report were already in practice. I'll throw that away from the greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're insecure the population. It has become your method of creating fear in recent years. They cause fear of the executive, they cause fear of the controls, including those who are entitled to cause fear of fighting crime, and they cause distrust of all authorities. This fear or mistrust is due to the fact that one of your Members has called for the foreign police to be replaced by social workers. That's your method! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who?]] That's what the Greens demanded. We already know all this: All those measures that do not fit in your "ideology menu" want to prevent you. That's your policy! She's clearly one-sided. They are absolutely blind on one eye. You want to use the state power only where your ideological interests are not affected. They distinguish from where the danger comes from whether it comes from left or right. They also distinguish from where the force comes from, whether it comes from the left or from the right. You're yelling at me. They are either after state violence or they want to prevent it. We already know that. For example, when it comes to the left-wing extremist "TATblatt" or anarchists, you want to in any case prevent the state control mechanisms from entering into force. – But when it comes to judges, yell at the prosecutor, at the police, and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but also among the Socialists, are representatives: The maintenance of security must be considered without ideological views! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you mean – in your urgent request, you do so in one of the first sentences – that there is no reason at all to extend the security authorities' powers, and if you are talking about police thinking, then I really can only recommend one thing: Take a look at the 1997 State Protection Report! They will see that hair is exactly what we have warned about, for years. Organized crime is already so strong that 30 percent of all criminal acts concern organised crime. This is not a statement that comes from us liberals, but the Minister himself has recently reported it on radio. In the plenary session, however, in Parliament, he and his group have never admitted that this is the right thing we have said. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true!]] The Minister himself said that, from his point of view, organised crime was the greatest danger to our entire state. Mr Leikam! You should read your Interior Minister's press releases better and not rely on what I'm telling you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's what he said in a committee, what you're telling us now!]] But you all, as you are sitting in the Socialist Group and also in the Greens, believe that you can fight organized crime with the methods of the 1970s. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: I don't think so!]] Of course, you believe this, because every time there is a technical progress in the pursuit or in the fight against crime, yell up and say: No, that's too far! [[Abg. Wabl: You are not even able to fight crime in your own ranks!]] I hope in the interests of the Austrians that you will not be taught a better person and that organized crime will not continue. It is clear, of course, that I am speaking to you, Mr Minister, that every control of the State must be bound to standards and that there must not be such a thing as has happened over the past few months. Any abuse must be prevented. That is why I would like you to strengthen the control mechanisms. I also have concerns that the implementation process does not work as much as we imagine in Parliament when it comes to legislation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that you, Mr Minister, must do essential things, especially in order to eliminate the criticism, which then concerns technology, arrest measures and so on.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10538	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10559	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by Mr Leikam. He said that two-thirds of the Austrians – so it is to be read in the new "format"; we note that you, too, as we read "format", want to have more powers for the police, so we should do it. [[Abg. Leikam: Yes!]] Now I can remind you of other surveys. For example, I could quote a survey whose results all of us have been very shocked when we talked about it here in the House. In this survey, the following questions were asked: Would you like to live next to Jews? – Unfortunately, there were many Austrians who said: No, we don't want to. I am already very interested in the fact that Mr Leikam is going out of here once and says: With reference to this survey, we should consider what measures we are taking. If you like it so much: I would like to know what you would say here from the speaker's desk if two thirds of the Austrians said that we should make a tax reduction. Then you'd say: We need to make a tax reduction right away? [[Abg. Leikam: The Minister of Finance is just about to think about it!]] The great coalition has been doing so for 12 years, and so far tax increases have been achieved, but no tax cuts have been made. [[Abg. Leikam: A few weeks left, then it's ready! Hold on till then!]] What is important to me in this context, Mr Leikam: Use You do not survey just the way you like it, but just say what the political value behind it is! We only dispute this political appreciation – in the positive sense – here also with the Federal Minister. Mr Kiss is to be welcomed that he has said here: Mr. Federal Minister, your home lacks internal revision! [[Abg. Kiss: There is no one!]] I say she's missing! Federal Minister! There is no internal revision in your house, and this must be set up. The great coalition has been around for 12 years now. In these twelve years, the great coalition has not managed to establish an internal revision at the Ministry of the Interior, but it has been able to introduce the grid search! You have not managed to establish an internal revision in the Ministry of the Interior, but you have been able to introduce the noise attack! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You have to set priorities!]] They have not succeeded in creating an internal revision in the Ministry of the Interior, but the Federal Minister has a genetic engineering database – only by decree, without any legal basis! – can be introduced without there being a cry on the part of the great coalition! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You have to set priorities!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God!]] The honourable Member is now saying: Thank God! But she was the one who made it clear right before my remarks: Each of these executions must take place on the basis of standards! That was their words only before! However, it seems that the gene database has not been set up in accordance with legal standards. In this context, the Liberals are concerned with saying: Let's not measure with double measure! Let's not open doors that we don't know what's going to happen in the future! I'll tell you: That is the real problem in this context! Twelve years of coalition, ladies and gentlemen, have also provided us with on-line access to the computers of the telephone providers, but there is no internal revision at the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But there is a minority advisory board for this!]] That's exactly the double measure we're looking at. You are constantly pointing out and as to what we are saying to you: If citizens' rights apply in this country, not all of these measures should have been taken while the protection mechanisms have not been attracted in the same breath. That's what we criticize. We ask you – I expressly say: we ask you – Mr Kiss,... – to do so. [[Abg. Leikam: This data matter has been revealed by the Ministry of the Interior, please!]] This has been known for 20 years, and there have been two studies, however, which have been discontinued. Do you remember the case in Leoben, Mr Leikam, when it came to monitoring a harmless mob of professing Christians, because an executive officer thought it was that way? – We are not making the mistake of saying: The whole executive is like that. We're just telling you: There are also people in this area who – perhaps as Mrs Partik-Pablé has done – suspect something bad behind everything. If the honourable Member says so, I take it very seriously, for she knows what she is talking about when she says that something bad is suspected behind everything. I ask you: What happened in Leoben? – Nothing came out of it at all! Everything has been set: Disciplinary proceedings have been initiated, there is also no criminal proceedings. Everything has been nothing, not even an attempt. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: That's not true!]] – This has been said to me, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: What should I do if the prosecution stops?]] I say yes: The prosecutor's office will be set up. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: What do you do when it comes to it?]] [[Abg. Leikam: It went on to the prosecutor, then it was stopped! You have to ask the Minister of Justice!]] If someone tries to record a harmless mob of professing Christians using video cameras, and the procedure is then terminated, Minister of State, then we have to ask ourselves if this is so politically wanted. I am not saying that this is an illegal approach, but I am just telling you that privacy is becoming a potable village and that we have to consider what we want to do and do in this context at an increasing information age. That's what we're referring to. I would like to stress the following, ladies and gentlemen, because it is also about how we perceive the individual facts that we are encountering. I quote from the APA of 12. November 1998 and ask for your attention. ==References====External links== November 1998 – that is, from a recent point of view – can be read: According to the recent study, the new start-ups in Austria – these are companies – have increased significantly. If it were 12 500 in 1990, this figure already rose to 19 300 in 1997, creating 35 000 new jobs. Estimates for 1998 show that 20 400 new companies are expected, says Farnleitner. – This is a success report from Mr Farnleitner. He says: A new founding offensive has called this great coalition into the world. That's something very positive. I'm a little scared when I was 24 years old. In November 1998, the State Protection Report had to read that the share of organised crime in Austria is on the rise and that this is due in particular to the opening of the East. The State Protection Report will then read: Since the opening of the eastern borders, the number of formations of capital companies whose shareholders and managing directors have come from the CIS has increased. To that end, I say: Well, could you not have said that, too, Mr. Farnleitner? Would you not have been able to tell him that he may withdraw from his founding offensive those companies mentioned in the State Protection Report which apparently serve only organized crime? Ladies and gentlemen! We do not doubt that organized crime is also taking place in Austria, but is it not true that organized crime, in which large amounts of money are also pushed back and forth, primarily serves not only the economic structures but also the banking structure? Wouldn't it be necessary, for example, to cooperate more closely with Bank Austria, which is not insignificant economic success in the East business, to ask whether or not organised crime is also a problem? But no, we don't hear about that. We hear only that you want to access in all other areas – now without judicial arrangement. These are the conflicting signals you send out! [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true either!]] Mr Leikam, these are... [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Where does this happen without judicial arrangement? Please tell me exactly!]] The Security Police Act was in its draft not only based on the standard data as you carried it out, but also on the mediation data. If you look at the main data, Mr. Federal Minister, you see that this includes not only name, address or telephone number, but also credit. This also means that, although there is a difference between standard data and mediation data, you have the Konnex to the mediating data, because one of the mediating data also includes the way in which payment of a telephone bill is made: Is anyone making prepayments, or is anyone in default? – Deputies! [[Abg. Kiss: No! Who with whom for how long!]] Then please look into the Telecommunications Act, in which the mediation data are defined. That's it. We are only telling you that you are going to ignore the limits in this context. A right to security does not only mean... [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] But it has been said by Mr Sika: We're going to fight line in the future. You too, Mr Federal Minister, have made it clear: State protection must be able to determine without any concrete suspicion. I believe that if you say that today no nuclear energy opponents are being monitored, please also bear in mind: How will it be with NATO opponents? Who says that in this context we will not even have more serious discussions? If that is the case, Mr Federal Minister, then you cannot rule out today, although we personally believe you do not want it to be so, that to a different extent this may also happen against those people who decide on these measures today. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals do not overlook at all that the executive is not only a part of the democratic order, but a necessary, indispensable part of the democratic order. But what we repeatedly call for in this House is that there should also be parliamentary control. They will probably admit to us that the State Police Committee or the Army News Committee does not deserve the word "control". You don't deserve it, and you know that! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you know? You weren't in there!]] Many of our concerns therefore come, Mr Kiss, that in everyday political life we see here in the House that parliamentary control is not allowed. If we finally agreed that control in this country should be a minority right and not a majority right, ladies and gentlemen, then the debate would have taken a lot of attention. But as it is handled today, we are not sure of that. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is not true that control is a minority right, and therefore we will continue to warn against the erodement of fundamental rights in that country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10831	The next speaker is Mr Wabl.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e10861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam, this is not my last speech. But you, Mr Leikam, and Mr Kiss, too, in such debates, should get used to these blatant speakers. It's a very simple pattern: One assumes generalization to the political opponent, then claims that generalization is indifferent and stupid – which is right – to then release with full force and full of argumentation. [[Abg. Leikam: You do this with the request!]] Then it says: You just want organized crime, you want to protect the criminals, you want to weaken the police, and so on. [[Abg. Kiss: This is the reverse!]] That's your strategy! This beautiful story, Mrs. Partik-Pablé... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't believe it!]] I think she does. You probably read Metternich's report. I can imagine with a little imagination what that was like back then. [[Abg. Young: 25 cops we have for this purpose!]] Of course, the setting up of lamps, of lighting bodies in Vienna in itself is not a problematic process, but in Metternich, as a fundamental and freedom-conscious citizen, one should of course say that special caution must be exercised that not at every corner and at every lantern a Metternicher Spittel stands. That was clear, of course. [[Abg. Kiss: But the perfidy is that you yourselves the state...!]] The camera is nothing bad in itself, Mrs. Partik-Pablé! What's bad about a camera in a tunnel that runs through every day cars? [[Abg. Young: What's bad about a camera there?]] What is bad about the fact that in the subway areas, in the event that an accident happens or anything dangerous threatens, cameras are? - Nothing. What is bad about the fact that cameras are at very dangerous intersections so that the police can drive there immediately to solve traffic problems or to avoid threatening danger? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And what is bad if one is caught with a DNA analysis?]] But there is a danger that all these cameras will be networked in an apparatus of which 27 000 officials have access to data. This has already happened in London. There are cameras on the streets that automatically scan which people move on the streets, and then make comparisons with those persons who are to be controlled, monitored or imprisoned by the state power. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Let's strengthen citizens' rights! That's the answer!]] There's a big risk of abuse! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I tell you the following, Minister of the Interior: I take it from you that you, as Minister of the Interior, and that is your task, of course, you want to do everything for the safety and protection of the population. This is, of course, your job as a minister. I also take it from you that, of course, you are looking for appropriate methods to combat organised crime and crime as a whole. Of course, it is necessary that you also have the technically most modern and best device. Of course, you and your executive officials can not drive through the area by bicycle, with the magnifying glass in hand. This is what everyone sees, the Greens, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and other fundamental rights-conscious people. [[Abg. Kiss: Well, I've heard other of you!]] Mr Kiss! Of course, the executive officials who are trying to do their work should have good equipment. [[Abg. Kiss: We like to hear that!]] [[Abg. Leikam: For the first time we hear that!]] But there are limits and special dangers in these areas that have long been exceeded in some parts. The example of the two officials shows it very beautifully: If there's a scandal somewhere, there's always some member of the government or a member of the government party saying: That's just a black sheep! – What to say [[Federal Minister Mag. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Then you, Minister of the Interior? [[Abg. Kiss: This is a red sheep!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl:... Control!]] You cannot control 27 000 officials who have access to this data! The danger is just too big! But what you can do – and that is what I wish, Minister of the Interior – is that you emerge and ask: We now have new instruments, and how can we prevent these instruments from being abused? Mr Kiss has said quite correctly that the internal revision is missing. Where is the revolutionary proposal for how you can protect those data that can be misused? Where are the revolutionary proposals here? Where are the appropriate measures here? [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: I already listed them!]] Minister of the Interior! You attacked Mrs Petrovic by saying: In my time, the nuclear-powered opponents have not been controlled for a long time. – Minister of the Interior, that was a very cheerful contribution. Otherwise you would have to look for them in the Federal Chancellery, because at least there is an attempt to do something against the nuclear power stations. But you forget that there are other areas of conflict in politics now and that there are very likely to be used by the state police and intelligence services, bullying citizens and observing by your officials. At the time, I showed you the case of a "waste water" demonstration in Carinthia, when outraged citizens went to the streets against bureaucracy and, of course, the police filmed the demonstrators with cameras. Skill Do you not imagine that citizens feel that this film material will then be evaluated and the data stored? Skill You don't imagine what happens to those people who have been observed by you or your officials there, when they are looking for work in Carinthia, for example, when these people are trying to get a job, and then may be checked by the company if the person has behaved correctly? [[Abg. Leikam: You don't know about Carinthia! Red about the Styria!]] You have answered that, as far as I can remember, this would have been a training measure or a "common" measure. I don't know exactly anymore, the answer was definitely very impoverished. You were not right that the police had made this observation at the time. But that's the problem. We have it in almost all critical areas, of course even if citizens oppose certain projects. If they hold citizens' assemblies – whether they are the animal protectors or those who want to have a new transport policy and fight against certain road projects – they are, of course, also monitored by the intelligence services. Now to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Petrovic, which has already begun: How can it be that in 1994 your ministry signed a contract with the army intelligence service that data will be passed on to the army news service, although there is no legal basis for the army intelligence services? – There is no military authority law. And you didn't answer the question as long as that didn't exist. In my opinion, this would be a very bad thing because Mr Fassleven, in relation to the Military Power Act, obviously dreams that he will be able to make any of what he has done illegally so far. But these are our fears. Those data collected there are not subject to any control at all. Mr Barmüller said that quite correctly. With regard to the comparison of the two committees, I must also say a positive word to you: There is little control in both committees, but at least in your committee the approach is still in place. But otherwise? Where, then, is the control over those intelligence services that you expect enlargements – you say "adaptations" – that is what I think will be new? "Adaptations" you call that very modest. Mr. President Gaál! It is a sad game, as this Army News Service Control Committee comes about, because there the coalitionary fidelity prevents any information, prevents any control! And then this intelligence service, which is subject to an absolute zero control, also receives the right to access data through a contract with the Ministry of the Interior! Mr Kiss! [[Abg. Kiss: Please?]] As regards your data about your visits to London and other wonderful associations: [[Abg. Kiss: Of course, also in America, in Hungary, everywhere!]] Are you already aware of which data all are collected? Do you know, too, that the army news service is checking your visits to Mensdorff... – I don't know what it's called – even if he's always starting these wonderful shops in Burgenland – you know? [[Abg. Kiss: Pouilly!]] Are you aware of this? [[Abg. Kiss: So?]] So what? - That's all right. Of course! You have a pure vest, you have nothing to hide. You can sit down, you know the files. You can also look at the ÖVP in the Academy, there are other things as well. [[Call at the ÖVP: Very confused!]] Federal Minister! Here from this speaker's desk, an opposition leader could quote from secret files and talk about how indebted a SP-mandatar is. Has there been research into how this opposition politician came to these files? – From this speaker’s desk, without any problems! There was no cry here, there was no protest here – nothing! Federal Minister! That's not the only case. I'll tell you: If there is a rumor in a small village that a few village boys sit down somewhere and smoke hashish – a rumor! – then, of course, the next day is the Gendarmerie there and controls these boys. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I hope so!]] [[Call of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Then they are checked and their data collected. But where was the executive when there was a rumor about the Riegerbank for years? Where, then, has the executive been when there have been rumors for years that incredible things are happening in a mine? This is the imbalance in the treatment of Austrian citizens by the executive, and that is what we want to put off! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! You have all the support when it comes to the work of the correct executives, of which there are very many, but...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11181	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11197	I just wanted to start, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11215	You can never know that, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11236	Thank you. Thank you for the compliment. You have all the support you have in the correct execution of your work, Mr. Interior Minister, but you will find out every resistance when it comes to violations and the restriction of fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11270	Next speaker – after Mr Wabl’s appointment not only, but really speaking the final sentence – is Mrs. Dr. Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11291	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are issues in security policy that need to be discussed in principle and also very openly – openly towards developments and also mentally, in the sense that we have to deal with new issues and strive as legislators not to follow developments, but as soon as they go, to capture them and to involve them in our legislative activity. One of these developments is technical. The question contains a document from the European Parliament which refers to Steve Wright's study of technical possibilities in the field of hearing. I have taken this study out of the Internet, and it is really very interesting, and I believe that we need to discuss it – precisely because we, as legislators, need to know the latest developments in order to be able to respond adequately. It turns out that today there are ways of controlling and monitoring people who did not exist before, because of which really the behavior, the characteristics, the situation of a human being can be observed to an extent such as has never been the case before. This makes it necessary for us to consider how to handle the organised crime that is using new technical methods. And this also shows that we also need to think about what private individuals can do by means of monitoring methods, because it is not just the state that is available to the new technical aid. However, it is also our task to consider what this means in the context of the human rights situation, which means for the control of citizens who are completely unchallenged but who can nevertheless be examined. I therefore believe that it is important, in connection with the amendment to the Security Police Act, to weigh all this, to consider which instruments the police need – and it needs new instruments, that is not a question for us at all. Organized crime is a danger, and the police must be able to respond adequately. This also means, for us, that we must consider how much intervention may be, and that, above all, we must limit the areas in which intervention may be possible. The fact that we expect the Ministry of the Interior or the Minister of the Interior and its apparatus to protect the population as far as possible from crime is not a question for all of us here. However, there must be strict control in the use of data and in the enormous abundance of data as well as in the large number of people who have access to it. The Federal Minister has announced that a number of measures in connection with the misuse of data are planned. There have already been steps. I think it is also very important for the executive to prove that the data collected are in good hands that they are not misused that they are not passed on to unauthorized persons. It has already been mentioned several times today in the draft law on the novels of the Security Police Act. I also think it is very, very important that a human rights advisory board be set up in the novelle. We need to make this advisory board an instrument that will actually allow for good control in which consideration can be made and in which it can also be clarified in individual cases whether there are seizures and problems. I believe that we must in principle discuss these issues of weighting, demarcation, control, and for us the novelle on the security police law is an important basis for this. There is some excitement about this draft; there are some things that are not in it at all, but also some of the questions I would like to clarify, of which I think we need to discuss them openly. My experience is that in such delicate materials – and a security police law is undoubtedly one – a good dialogue can be conducted with the Ministry of the Interior and with the Minister of the Interior. I would like to point out that there has been a very, very detailed and controversial debate in my group on noise attack and grid arrest, and that there has been a great deal of change in the Subcommittee and a significant improvement in human rights protection in this area. Although I did not agree to the draft at the time, I believe – and I also expressed this in the debate at the time – that there have been significant improvements. The Federal Minister has announced that there will be a detailed and very open debate on the wishes of the executive in connection with the Security Police Act, and I very much welcome it. I am convinced that there will be improvements to the possibility, on the one hand, of equipping the executive with the means it needs, but on the other hand it will be clarified by very clear demarcations, for which these rights are to exist and for which means may be used, and also a clear control over which areas should not be passed on. It is the State's task to protect people from crime. I think this is an important task, and I am opposed to the fact that this function of the State, namely to ensure security, is taken over by private companies, because that would be something that only a few privileged ones could afford. It must therefore be said that every person in our country really has the highest possible degree of security. The fact that human rights are also a part of this security is very important to me, and I am convinced that we will succeed in finding a reasonable basis here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11353	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11375	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with two basic questions that arise in this context. Question one: How far can one really go in a rule of law to prevent crime on the one hand and to deal with all citizens' rights as gently as possible? I believe that even today we have seen in the discussion that very strong black and white are painted and not the colours are recognized in their diversity. I would particularly like to address this to the Green and Liberal Group in this House. It is not only to be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the all-power of the security authorities is at the centre of the power against the powerless citizen, who is dependent on the will of the others, but it must also be seen that many of the citizens in Austria today are affected by organised crime. I can also give you examples of experience from my point of view. If you live in the urban environment of Vienna today and learn how to clean up houses in a professional way, one by one, how much property crime increases and how these stolen goods are brought over the green border outside the country, then there is already cause for concern. Remember on the other side They bring them directly to the border areas, also near Vienna, like organized tow bands Illegale to Austria. It must not be a question of money whether you can come to a country like Austria because you can afford a tow band or not. There, organized crime has reached manifestations that one must meet, with the full hardness of the law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also do not want to leave the Federal Minister out of this responsibility. Federal Minister! You also sometimes fail to recognize or perhaps do not want to realize that the sensitivity that is attached to the execution is not always the priority of your masters in the executive. For it was not very trusting that two officials from your home, from the Federal Ministry of the Interior, obviously sold sensitive data to others against pay. This too cannot be taken note of, but it must also be pursued with hardness, and one must also work with instruments that prevent such a thing in the future. In this respect, your proposals – and I can honestly say that – are a little too little for me. I do not think that it is enough to follow individual cases. This requires not only an internal revision, as my colleague Kiss has already done today, but also a very specific process in the selection of employees working with such sensitive data. Perhaps this is also a question of payment, perhaps one has to consider something in this area, because it cannot be opened up a new market if one has to process sensitive data. I would now like to deal with a second question, which is also discussed in this context, namely: How can we meet organized crime today? Is there any chance for the executive, and is it still so modern? I believe that there must certainly be a lot to be done in the field of professional tracking and that the use of technology can contribute very much to this. There are already instruments under the Security Police Act – some of them still need to be created – with which we may be able to take a step forward. Federal Minister! We are prepared on the part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to negotiate with you in a very sensitive way also restrictions on certain citizens' rights, but it must be at the heart of the matter that success is guaranteed. Besides, I can tell you: In the case of organised crime, one thing will also be necessary: a certain presence on the ground. If we look at many parts of Austria today, we note that this presence of security forces on the ground is no longer given. I can come back to the example of those who are driving property crime: It can't be that I'm calling the Gendarmerie Post and then I'm told via a telex line that someone else is responsible, which might appear on the spot in a three-quarters of an hour. - But that's the case today. When I see the surroundings of Vienna and just Lower Austria with 413 kilometres of external borders, I also see that there are execution deficits there, massive. At the Ministry you and your staff initially considered it necessary to do this to 1 124 planning posts. From the 1,124 planning sites have then become 1,024, and now we are at a number of 789. – A reduction that must be considered at 413 kilometers external border! But I agree with you that we cannot regulate this from today to tomorrow, and that certainly requires some years of construction work. But, Mr Federal Minister – and this is now a very concrete question to you – as regards technical aids, you have promised that the safety patrols will be provided with thermal imaging equipment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Still, it is not guaranteed that all patrols really have these thermal imaging devices. We have heard that the call for proposals has not worked. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How are the banks monitored?]] Federal Minister! If these are not implementation deficits, I wonder what happens in the ministry if we do not make such a really necessary technical device available to employees on the border to this day, even though they should have long ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] And if there are currently two patrols – two patrols of two men each – for 40 kilometers of green border, then you can't really say that the green border is actually being monitored. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] I think this is also a question of justice, because it cannot be that one can afford to get over a tow band or even organized criminally across the green border, while others who want to move legally to Austria do not have this possibility. I believe that there is a great deal of work to be done in this area in the execution process, and I urge you to make it clear now and to ensure that execution is carried out as well. For one cannot imagine to the executives that they work on the green border without technical aids in Lower Austria and are in fact faced with an insoluble task. As the rule of law, we are not doing well, and you are not doing well as Minister of the Interior. That is why I ask you to take action in this case and quickly re-establish the missing device. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This House has the responsibility to develop effective instruments with all sensitivity, as perhaps a security police law can be more closely directed towards the goal of meeting organised crime. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You liked it!]] The execution does not have to be guaranteed that you as Minister of the Interior, as one of the main ministers in this field, have to be responsible for the execution. And I therefore ask you, even if you have human needs there and there, to express them openly and to ensure that we can really guarantee security in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11454	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11475	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Wabl: Oh, now there are new proposals again, what the Minister of the Interior should do!]] Can I interrupt the contest? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Or participate!]] In the next election campaign, you still have enough opportunity to talk to the Federal Minister – then probably out of service. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Mr Van der Bellen, who has now granted a comment here in the house, said in his explanatory statement that the Metternich surveillance state is threatening, there are already super cameras that can produce hundreds of participants in demonstrations in just a few seconds and more. Mr Van der Bellen, we are sometimes grateful for this – and perhaps you should see that – that there are such controls, not only when it comes to your clients. [[Abg. Wabl: You've worked badly with the Freeman!]] I recall the circumstances of the investigation of that case in France when Hooligans struck half dead a policeman lying on the ground. The man lay in the coma for weeks and will never recover from these injuries that he suffered at the time. And only thanks to a video recording of a 17-year-old co-trailer could you even find out who these criminals were, ladies and gentlemen. You know very well that especially in demonstrations, especially in those that are not reported, the violent potential always mixes somewhere, whether it be left or right. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Minister would be responsible for this!]] Such actions attract more or less violent people, who see in the anonymous mass the opportunity to engage in criminal activity. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes, you put them on!]] I am glad to be able to be resolved with the help of a record of serious crimes committed under the protection of the fundamental right to freedom of expression. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because our state is not in favour of criminal elements getting involved in demonstrations. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That was not a demonstration, it was a football game!]] I would like to remind you of the following example, Mrs Petrovic. – Mrs Colleague, it is not just about football games, it is generally so. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: It was a football game!]] I don't know why you think that's so funny? Should a police officer no longer have a right to personal integrity, just because a few crazy people in this country believe they can beat down any policeman just because he wears uniform? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Of course he should have that! But it wasn't a demonstration!]] Will the wild game be? Not with us, Mrs Petrovic! Not with us! I remember something else – I'm just so nice at it now, colleague Wabl –: [[Abg. Wabl: No human is this opinion!]] To regret and grieve the murders of the Kurds officials in Vienna, which you are right to do, is one thing but at the same time to act against the fact that the Minister of the Interior has the Kurds monitored – which might have prevented one or the other – that was your case. At the time, you have made Minister of the Interior the wall when he said: We do not monitor the PKK and the ERNK in this country! They can do what they want! – Mr Öcalan is your comrade. [[Abg. Wabl: The secretary of the President of Parliament has been heard during his talks!]] Mr Öcalan is the family member of the SPÖ's International Secretary – for this the Minister of the Interior can't do anything – but these organizations enjoy a particularly solemn treatment. The OGH says how an advertisement by Mr Kiss shows: This is a criminal union within the meaning of § 278 StGB!, but the Minister of the Interior has said: Let's not watch! But then, if something happens, you're all sad and yelling at the Minister of the Interior, who's said he didn't do anything. [[Abg. Kiss: That was one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you know that there is a criminal organisation in this country – although there is a special close relationship between an international secretary of a government party – then you cannot say that you should not monitor it, or if you do not monitor it and happen, you can also say that the Minister of the Interior is guilty of it, ladies and gentlemen. This is the dual tenacity and the contradiction that emerges from your argumentation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and Liberals! If you are already talking about the surveillance state – Van der Bellen has said it is threatening the Metternich surveillance state – then remember: Mr Van der Bellen, Metternich has first and foremost tried to satisfy the minds of his subjects. That's what we've had before. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Greens wanted this!]] It's all day-to-day. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Teachers!]] They have made Mr. Innenminister One of the times, as Mrs. Ederer explained in the "Standard" - I quote - that all students and students from VSSTÖ are invited to announce suspicious teachers. She has a list of suspicious teachers who, according to their minds, have become suspicious. Mr Van der Bellen! That's family pruning brand Metternich! I sued this from this speaker's desk at the time, and you made him the wall at the time. – You must not be blind on one eye if you are against convulsion. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You're blind on both eyes!]] I am against convulsion, but then you have to fight them exactly where this comes closest to your point of view, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: It is even worse to be blind on both eyes!]] I'm against convulsion! You have an ally in me. But then I expect you to support us on the next occasion when such convulsions take place. I invite you to fight with us one of the largest institutions in this country, ladies and gentlemen: the DÖW. [[Abg. Wabl: No!]] What, you say, "No!"? I have a judgment here, and then you can call this family pruning institution a kind of private stasi. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Nurses and family sniffers!]] Closer, you man of mind! They do nothing but beautify the mind. This is so far that Mr Khol, before the election of Mr President Brauneder in the House, took an opinion from the DÖW that Professor Brauneder was inconceivable. That's what he did at the time. So far, ladies and gentlemen. A private stasi-institution, a body of sniffers must only issue, so to speak, the personal license or the safety certificate... [[Abg. Wabl: Not everyone has a boy!]] Please, Mr Wabl? [[Abg. Wabl: Not everyone has a Mr. Jung in his own club!]] I'd be glad if I had more of that, Mr. Wabl. I prefer them to me, because you are blind in one eye, Mr. Wabl. [[Abg. Wabl: Better than on both eyes!]] You're blind on an eye! In this case, you are even blind on both eyes. You should recognize that this is a publicly subsidized family bubbling institution, in which you yourself are also making inquiries about ungrateful liberties. [[Abg. Wabl: Oh that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not only what Mr Klubobmann Khol does, but also you yourself. Her close relationship with the DÖW is well-known. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Talk about your close relationship with the Army Defense Office!]] It's not about the Army Defense Office. [[Abg. Wabl: Oh, no?]] The Army Defense Office is not the... [[Abg. Wabl: Mr. Haider has direct contacts there!]] No, you're already bringing the... [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Mr Wabl! Clarify your club so that she doesn't constantly confuse the Army Defense Office and the Army News Office. [[Abg. Wabl: This is irrelevant!]] This has also been done by Mr Van der Bellen in his speech. I signed what you pointed out today as part of a request that was already completed yesterday. This is the case where people of the news office actually spent themselves as police officers of the Minister of the Interior and then went sniffing. You immediately have allies in us, but you must note that not only can you fight this one but you must fight against the abuse of civil rights on the other. [[Abg. Wabl: Of course!]] And I'm asking you to: Support us against this Schnuffelinstitut DÖW! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you how far this is going. I don't know if you've read the latest "profile" where a criminal case, a very common brutal crime case is dealt with. An old woman, a piano teacher, is mistreated first and then executed with two shots. And then the "profile" writes about the perpetrators – I quote –: Nevertheless, even the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance, the two men are unknown. – Ladies and gentlemen! Even the documentation archive, which must know everything in this country, which can also know everything in this country! [[Abg. Wabl: This is a cause of relief!]] Yes, this is probably a source of relief, because with it they are ideologically unthinkable, so that they are no longer objectors, but only ordinary criminals. What a happiness that one of the two perpetrators was shot in the course of a shooting! But even the DÖW they are unknown. Look, that's the mind that's behind it! They support this family sniffing institution, and we are against this family sniffing institution. And as long as you are not willing to intervene on this side of the Republic for civil rights, even if it is not your ideology that is affected by it, you should go inside and examine yourself beforehand. We are against the DÖW, but we are also opposed to any other form of abuse of data material and to any other form of violation of citizens' rights. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the difference, and that is why we invite you to support us in the future! Then you also have the moral competence, abuses in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, if they are present – which, however, are still quite fiercely fought by the Minister – to condemn here too. I have no doubt that the Minister of the Interior, unlike his predecessor; I hope, dear Karl, that I will not harm you again in your party now – is a concern to misuse the data abuse against primarily ideologically displeased or political competitors. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It hurts him!]] That was not the case with his predecessor. This is your friend Caspar One who wants to forge an ampel coalition with you. And you have to prove first that you are willing to oppose it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11930	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e11952	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schlögl has told us that he is in favour of democratic fundamental rights, and we want to believe that. However, I would like to say something about this: The fundamental rights are generally well abolished in a democracy, but they require qualified protection at the level of constitution, of international conventions, because they are not so undisposable as a majority. Fundamental rights in this sense are therefore more than just democratic fundamental rights, they are more fundamental, they are above all indivisible. Of course, there are sometimes conflicts between individual fundamental rights, because I have the right to be protected in my integrity, even with the resources of the State, as I also have the claim that my integrity is not violated by the means of the State. This can sometimes lead to concrete contradictions in the processes, which is without a doubt correct, but – and I ask you to consider that – when Mr Leikam says in his remarks here, two thirds of Austrians want more police powers, I ask the question: Do you want to reorganise and sort the fundamental rights according to results of opinion polls or do you want to remain firm on certain issues of personal protection, even if you are faced with a certain wind from the opinion polls? This would be a democratic commitment of the elected representatives in a Republic and also of the members of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Greens!]] The argument that two thirds want more police powers is a very unreflected argument. We need to know more precisely how the question has been answered and so on. I mean, you should be more careful about playing with the self-reputation profession that the majority wants this or that because it's been tested. I mean, that would be unhealthy for fundamental rights in the very sense of the word. Now on the concrete aspects that are in here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: So you don't want to discuss it in your opinion?]] – Of course you can discuss this. It is even necessary to discuss such aspects. That's very important! Here policy is often called for, but not simply by taking up and implementing such concerns, but by taking them up, discussing them and putting them in the right place. That's a big difference. And if Mr Leikam points out that two thirds want more powers for the police, and that is why they have to come, that is the wrong reason. Either they are necessary for certain reasons or not – that would be to discuss. The Federal Minister has made interesting statements – in detail on a few demands of the liberals, for example on the aspect of "black box" – and I can now briefly analyze them in the sequence of time. We have been asked to point out the possibilities that exist in modernly organised data administrations to ensure additional external control. I remind you: When the data scandal regarding the abuse of trade was revealed by the staff of the Ministry with so-called private detectives, the Director-General for Public Security pointed to the high number of accesses and also to the impossibility of controlling them. That's what I've got in my ear: There are many thousands of accesses, so it is impossible to control that. [[Abg. Kiss: 30 million!]] It may be, it's 30 million, maybe more. I say to you that this number of accesses is in larger data processing systems state of the art, and of course everything is logged there. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. We were very concerned about this, and that is why we thought: There is a need for more control here! We have put concrete demands into space, for example, independent control. Even Mr Kiss has said that there is not even an internal revision. So an internal revision would be a first step forward, but so the key question would be: Who's guarding the guards? We also need independent control from the outside and an independent, in the case of parliamentary, accompanying control. The two last mentioned parts are missing. There is no external control, and parliamentary control cannot be carried out if the information flows into the control body committee do not vote. Today, the Federal Minister tells us: Every access is comprehensible, everything is logged and withdrawn for three years, so there was this "black box" already that the problem was solved in this respect. So either until yesterday the Director-General for Public Security, who publicly pointed out to us that all this was not possible, did not know, or the Minister of State was informed incompletely. Of course, a data processing system cannot function at all without logging the processes. It was therefore clear that there are protocols. The political demand we had put into space was that a double protocol should take place: one within the system and one within a "black box" to which the users of the data system do not have access, so that, when external control comes, one can see in these secured protocols whether or not manipulation in the protocols of the system itself may have taken place. This is a dual system, which is used to improve the control of data processes and is used regularly in technical applications and perhaps also costs something – should already be – but that would be cost that would be useful for the higher honor of fundamental rights and for their protection. If you need a budget breach law, you would have our votes for it, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Once again, I expressly say: Today, the Minister of State tells us that this has already been achieved. Yesterday, the Director-General for Public Security said that it is not possible. And if the Director-General has said that this is not possible, that means explicitly: It didn't happen until today or until yesterday. This is an unpleasant finding on questions of control. The internal revision does not exist either. - Quote Kiss. So I don't know how to draw the world so rosy. To the right to information to which one refers: What do I have of a right to information if the one who gives me the information is the one I want to control with it. How can I ever know if the information he gives me is correct and complete if I cannot serve a third independent place? Although this information is well-intentioned and will often even vote, I never have the certainty that they will vote if I have to question those whom I fear he has collected data behind my back. It is impossible to imagine that this is a satisfying information. The same applies, therefore, to the personal information of Mr Exbundesminister Soronics. If you do not ask anyone other than the person concerned if he has behaved properly and forget that it is one of the foundations of criminal justice in Austria and continental Europe that the accused himself is free in the choice of his defence and therefore not obliged to do so, then this information of a suspected person is worthless. If they are not subject to objective third-party control, they are worthless. Federal Minister! If you are satisfied with these informations and then call us in the opposition banks, if we knew more, then we should tell you, that is unreasonable, because you would have the instruments to know more without resorting to the mere information of those concerned. If the two disciplinary cases in your home do not also result in the buyers of this data being examined in detail, then you will never continue. [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: Should we do house searches?]] Finally, a comment on Mr Stadler's comments: The documentation archive of the Austrian resistance is not out of your mind. It is a foundation, it is a scientific institution that has certain fundamental concerns, namely the documentation of Austrian resistance, and it also pursues documents of time up to the present – but it has no acts of secrecy. Take note of this! It may be unsympathetic to you personally what the documentation archive does, but there are no secret files there. Everyone can get any information there. If you suspect information there that does not vote, then you reject this information, but do not pretend that the documentation archive is a secret service – only because there are people working there in certain questions who are quite stable in their minds, who cannot be intimidated and who may not be cutting off the entire sectors of Austrian internal policy, which may focus on potentially dangerous aspects, and not on anything that might also do incomplete work, because they do not document every organization that is important. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens]] All of this may be, but it alone derives from it a oneness of a foundation which is not a public body like an authority, is steep, that is a mixture of inequalities. I wanted to say that clearly here, because of course, family pruning, as you call it, is bad. However, if anyone – my final sentence, Mr President – reminds students of political alertness, then he does not urge them to sniff, but then he calls on them to show civil appeal. And it would be useful if that were the case more often. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12032	Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12053	Deputies Kier! I would like to repeat it again – perhaps I have misinterpreted, perhaps what the Director-General has said has been misinterpreted: The fact is that we have 93 000 surveys a day, some 34 million per year. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: We have 200 000 a day!]] – Can you guarantee that each of the 200 000 queries will be checked for their usefulness, their sensuality and abuse? - I don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: There are matrices you can do with!]] I can't guarantee it. But I'd like to be willing to do everything to guarantee this in the future. That is why I first said, Mr President, that we are storing all the questions that exist and that this storage is abolished for three years. This is a kind of "black box" that you can use at any time and find out who asked when. Why was it asked, that is a question that needs to be examined. This review is, of course, difficult. There are situations or, for the most part, situations in which one can follow back at any time, why it has been requested, because there is just a file situation. But it can be just as good that during the night a gendarmerie strip runs through a dark alley, sees an unlit car standing there, and asks about the ECIS if a theft is available, whether or not the car is being chased or not. The Gendarmerie official will hardly remember why he requested it after half a year or after a year. – This is a problem that arises only if one wants to see the sensuality and correctness of a review, a subsequent request. But we will still try to do all that now, and we have already started a few things. The fact that this has been discovered at all has only been possible because of our control system, because we have come up with a random check that there are unusually many questions that have nothing to do with normal activity. – You can rightly say that it was a mistake that it took so long. I agree. You can also rightly say that it was wrong to instruct these officials to carry out the data surveys at Interpol, since it was already ten years ago that he suspected that he was using data abusively. This finding is undoubtedly correct, and it was a mistake. But this happened at a time, ten years ago, when I was unfortunately – or fortunately – not yet responsible for it. The measures that we are now taking, Mr Kier, are heading in exactly the direction you are calling for. First: We want to have a tighter service supervision. Secondly, We want – and this is already being done – to have an immediate manual and stronger review according to the random principle. Thirdly, We need a random generator to automate it. Fourth: The Data Protection Commission will be tasked with defining further measures with us. Next week, the first work between the Data Protection Commission and our people will start in this direction. And fifth, We want to achieve an acceleration of the queries. Deputies Kier! Mr Kiss's request is quite different. We have an internal revision at the Ministry of the Interior, as probably all the other ministries that control procurement and other things. But what Mr Kiss wants is the following: He wants to have, as it were, a special deployment force that intervenes in the event of errors of officials, such as data abuse. This should, as it were, make a special deployment group that is not in any way connected with the officials involved. We have solved this so far so that we have not taken officials from the immediate field but from far away in such delicate stories. In the "Data Protection History" we have done it in such a way that we have commissioned the Upper Austrians to do so. - That's the one method. The second method is that of colleague Kiss. I will also put forward this method, and I will discuss it with Mr Kiss. We may be going in this direction. But: There is already an internal revision, but it does not have the task of reviewing it, because for that there are other bodies and other institutions. That means, in no way do I hold back from the responsibility for data abuse. On the contrary: I'd like to be willing to do everything we can to prevent this. After all, there are constant ads. It is not true that this was the only case in which data was misused. In the past, a number of officials have already been convicted of discriminating and criminal law because they have misused data. Our task must be to make it clear whether it is necessary for us to have the data in this huge form. There are a few things that are contained in the ECIS, which I am willing to discuss together with the opposition, whether this is necessary in this form and to this extent. Secondly, we must do everything we can if there are modern techniques to ensure that we can check every single query. I do not think that is possible, but if you, Mr Kier, offer me such a possibility that I believe it is technically feasible, then I am the first to do so. I will invite you to a discussion on this next week.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12101	Mrs Kammerlander is speaking. The remaining speaking time of your group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12122	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have often been quoted here today and would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to say a few things, although what has been quoted is in a different context, namely, in connection with the investigations and observations from the Ministry of Defence, which is not supposed to exist, but which I know black on, as you know, in front of me. In this connection, I would like to say that both this and the other abuses have happened again, Mr Minister. You have now carried out once again how hard you are to carry out such abuses. However, we have not only to do with the abuse by officials who have passed on data to private detectives, we have not only to do with the fact that earlier Interior Ministers have taken documents home, but we also have to do with the fact that political officials of this House, both members of the Free Party and representatives of the Free Party, are unable to read from police documents which are infringing the privacy, privacy of the individual. In the specific case, there was a report – you know the story – in the magazine "TOP", the former Member of the Pretterebner, in which a facsimile was published and also my name in any context – I don't know what it was – was brought; I really had nothing to do with it. At the time, you have confirmed to us in a reply to a question we have put, that this publication is a violation of official secrecy and that investigations are under way. Now let us take a question answer from you, which you have given to my colleague, Mr Oellinger, that in fact investigations have been started in this case. But it must be said that the whole thing is already a year. What do I conclude? – Obviously, you admit that in your ministry, there is the habit of certain political officials being unable to make use of police documents and files and being able to take advantage of them, although these are things that should actually be closed down. What lesson do I draw from it and from this debate? – My confidence and confidence is likely limited by some citizens in this country when it comes to maintaining public security. And that's the point. You have answered questions 3 and 10 of our urgent request, namely what you reason for if, in the future, serious companies will also receive information, with the maintenance of public security. You know, however, that this very question of maintaining public security, in particular as to how far you may be prompted to carry out investigations in this regard, has a somewhat blurred limit. They may only carry out these investigations if criminal proceedings arise or are in place. And that's exactly what it's all about. This scope of definition, which results, gives us once again the reason not only for caution and skepticism, but also for mistrust, mistrust of the past, even if you refer to the fact that this should no longer be possible in the future. These examples show some, in particular, the fact that I have mentioned, but also the answers you have given, up to the transitional regime, which applies until a military power law enters into force, and with which it is possible for you to provide such knowledge of the defence of the country. It has already been said that there is no legal framework for this. Who guarantees me as a citizen what you pass on? I don't even know! They are referring to the question of whether these persons are informed of the abuse: Not at the moment! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] Minister! Why Make Are you not aware of the possibility you have as a minister to inform these people? In my opinion, these people have a right to do so. In the same direction your very well behaved answers also go to the failure to answer our questions, which have to do with the so-called transatlantic relations and with Echolon. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] . I come to the conclusion, Mr President. It is understandable that you cannot answer it in detail, but your personal opinion on it, especially in the light of the debate on this police power law or security police law which we are running here, would have been very interesting and relevant to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12193	The next speaker is Mr Achs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12214	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The two small opposition parties spoke of a massive threat to civil rights and criticised the drafts for a new security and military power law. They're talking about a "supervisory state" and a "data clause". Unfortunately, the suspicion that data has been passed on has confirmed itself. And we have just heard from the Minister of the Interior that the first suspicion was immediately acted and responded quickly and the two officials were suspended, especially since personal miscarriage of individual officials harms the reputation of the entire executive. In this context, it must not be forgotten that 99.9% of the 27 000 officials entitled to access do their jobs conscientiously and are not available for sale. There are currently 93 000 requests per day in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, which corresponds to 34 million requests per year, above all. As we know, this figure will increase to 40 million requests a year. However, I do not think it is possible, as Mr Kier said to the APA, to speak of a genuine data black market with fixed prices for computer information. I think it is important and necessary to decide that random checks will be carried out in the computer department from the middle of next year, because no one can be sure that access to the data will not be controlled in a random manner. In the case of 34 million data surveys, however, one cannot rule out some abuse of office in the future. The urgent question does not dispute the fact that overall crime has fallen over the previous year. However, it is complained that security police forces are constantly being expanded to monitor the citizens living in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! What does reality look like? What do the Austrians want and want? – They want to live in a country where their personal security is guaranteed, they want the state to provide them with protection and security, and we can refer to a well-trained and equipped executive. We have recognized the signs of time in good time and have already decided here in the House under Minister Löschnak on the security billion, which has made it possible for more executive officials to be employed and the equipment and equipment to be improved. Why has all this become necessary, ladies and gentlemen? – Because in the security sector in Europe, yes, a lot has changed around the world. Structures have been broken down and systems broken down. People in the countries affected have become mobile, millions of people have left their homes, partly because they have no longer endured political pressure in their countries, but largely because they have expected better economic conditions and living conditions in the West. Organized crime has put the executive before new challenges. The traditional methods can no longer be used to meet the new bandency, which is why police and gendarmerie are forced to face this international challenge with new means. However, it is also necessary to extend the powers of the executive so that it can fulfil its tasks, while ensuring strict rule of law control. I believe the statements made by the Federal Minister that he is firmly opposed to any evasion of the rule of law and that no extension of police powers has occurred since the entry into force of the Act on Advanced Investigation Powers, Noise Attack and Raster Enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore say a clear and clear yes to the Austrian executive. And if you say a clear and clear yes to the executive, you also have a clear and clear yes to modern and modern laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12266	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The urgent request of the Greens begins with a quote from the former President of the Constitutional Court Adamovich. You can read it if you want, but you can also study all 22 pages of this urgent request – but I can calm you down: There's nothing new inside, there's nothing essential inside, and you won't fail reading through! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to start with a quote, namely one of our clubman Khol, who – and this is very reasonable – said: If the criminal is driving a Porsche, the executive can't drive a VW. I believe that this quote contains everything that is meant by a level playing field between criminals and executives. This is translated, ladies and gentlemen: If the criminals, if organized crime, if the mafia, when the international gangs carry out their crimes and their crimes with state-of-the-art electronic tools, can only be fought if there is a level playing field when the weapons of the rule of law are at least those of the criminals. I am right to say, ladies and gentlemen, if you are concerned about abuse, you are not present at the moment. Concerns are always necessary and correct in such laws. I give you the right if you fear that the target can be shot there or there in the literal or transmitted sense. I'm right to tell you if you've shown incidents that have happened, for example, when two officials from the Ministry of the Interior - commercially, I would like to say - sold data. But I do not give you the right to be able to fight, prevent or resolve crimes due to arms inequality. I do not give you the right if you want to prevent and reject modern arrest methods. And I don't give you any right at all if the perpetrators are to get more rights than the victims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a modern democratic rule of law, it says: Victims in front of the culprit. In a modern democratic rule of law, it says: Victim protection against perpetrator sympathy. And it applies: He who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] During monitoring, we have built in filters with modern tracking methods. We have built-in filters for the noise attack, for modern surveillance, for the grid arrest, which can only be carried out under judicial permission and with particularly high penalties threatened offences. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who believes!]] – They say: Who believes! That is why it is necessary to have appropriate control. [[Deputies Young and Scheibner: Right! Right!]] But that does not mean that the non-belief should prevent control. [[Abg. Young: Can you explain that?]] – You have to explain to me what you mean. They have, at all times, very difficult objections, which no one can follow. But we can talk about it outside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a sense of justice and security in the population. This is also very large in view of the data and the organised crimes that are increasingly taking place. Mr Spindelegger mentioned in his speech the organized intrusions. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you a case from my home town of Grieskirchen, where a photo store was totally "smoothed out" three times during the night. The thieves took everything. Now you have to consider the trouble of the owner. It is also the higher premiums we all have to pay for insurance, not to forget! For when it comes to theft, not only are the individual affected but, over the entire risk community, the insurance premiums will increase over time. It has been said that this was a ten - head Polish intruder band, which was taken by the executive, thanks to God. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't say that!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Aliens hostile!]] The executive officials have said that this is only a small part of this hundred-headed band, which moves through Austria and breaks into business, organized, breaks down with state-of-the-art means and state-of-the-art equipment. And this band belongs to fights with such modern devices, which also uses them. That's why: Weapons equality for our executives! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a global security need. You only need to look at the results of the elections. Just look at New York! Last year, Mayor Giuliani, who "cleaned" New York of organized crime, won sensational. Look You are in favour of other states that have put security in the foreground! I'm thinking about South Tyrol, about Bavaria. Remember how security is assessed by the population there, namely when voting on the electoral day. In other words, we have to deal with a sensitive matter that is very important to the people. We have the obligation and the right to try to ensure that this safety need is remedied by appropriate measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! Abuse – in which we all agree – belongs to combat. The Emmentalian in the Ministry of the Interior, which is undoubtedly given here or there, is to be converted into a hard cheese by appropriate enzymes. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Uh!]] [[Abg. Kiss: In a greekchner!]] – In a Tyrolean mountain cheese, if you already call it that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean an effective control service and protection which can be different. We are discussing a control agency outside the civil service operating itself. You mentioned this first. I believe that this is a common path. Federal Minister! We have no understanding of all human needs – where people are gathered together – when organized, commercial data is passed on or, as in Salzburg, data is provided. We all know that there is abuse that can happen again and again. [[Abg. Young: Soronics!]] I do not wish to blame you personally, Minister of the State, but I would ask you to make every effort to ensure, in connection with these powers, that the Security Police Act, which is to be decided that in the context of grid arrest, noise attack and so on, that abuse is prevented as far as possible, so that the population can not only have confidence in security, but also in security controls at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12455	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12477	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After this trip to the automotive and cheese industry back to the urgent request. The Greens don't take it so seriously anymore. The last faithful who are still here and who follow the discussion about their own urgent request, read newspaper. I think it has also been shown – some previous speakers have already explained this – that the Greens in such things have a double-handed attitude. On the one hand, one has a healthy – or rather ill – distrust of the police apparatus, especially when it comes to protecting their sympathizers. I'm just saying, Purtscheller, I'm just saying: different activities in the "famous" Wielandgasse in X. Wiener Bezirk or, for example, the "famous" action community of Schottengasse and so on. On the other hand, we are waiting in vain for such arguments and wailings, Mrs. Kammerlander, when, for example, in the course of misleading investigations, politically misleading investigations in the letter bombardment, 80-year-old people are observed, house searches take place in 80-year-olds – only because they have subscribed to a newspaper. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Nothing but shakes! That's your only way to argue! Nothing but shakes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kammerlander! We would also expect your exhorting word, your voice and urgent requests from you, because then it would be credible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! For us this is quite clear: Everything, but really everything that is possible, for a decent and offensive crime fight! [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: A la Pretterebner?]] – Unlike you, Mrs Kammerlander, we stand by the fact that anyone who commits a crime in this state must expect the state to act against him and that state-of-the-art means are available to fight crime. That is why I am very much in favour of extending DNA research across all areas. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: This is clearly abuse!]] This, I believe, is a very appropriate measure to enable the criminal to become quick and efficient in the future, especially in the area of sexual offences. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister of the Interior! On the other hand, it is equally important that monitoring in the sensitive area of surveillance and, above all, preventive monitoring work. And I don't think it's all for the best. Just one example: the parliamentary control of the state police and also the army intelligence services. In every state that upholds democracy and the rule of law, there is a functioning parliamentary apparatus that can effectively and efficiently control all processes – it is committed to silence – in this area. What is set up in the Austrian Parliament at both services is a farce. You know that very well, Minister of the Interior! There we ask questions like in a normal committee, there are some lapidary answers, which have nothing at all to do with secret or actual information, which would give rise to control possibilities, and this inconspicuous information is still secret. Then it will be discussed what can be done from this information. We would then be called upon in the House to set up effective control once and to reflect on the sensibleness of these committees.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12557	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12578	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I take a short look, it is not much time to address the speeches of my previous speakers. Minister of the Interior! You have said earlier that you will follow all the clues that show abusive practices, and have done so quite fluently in connection with the Soronics affair. In this case, you also need to know that if you have seen the TV report, it is clear that original files were kept by this gentleman, whom he presented in an incomprehensiblely insidious manner. It'd have to be tracked. I cannot imagine that Mr Soronics was the only one who did this, he was perhaps the unskill who showed it. It was clear that there were acts of secrecy, and it was necessary to see if this abuse had not taken place among other ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] – Rain up afterwards, I don’t have time to deal with it now! If we are already at the crocodiles, Minister: They have trusted that the Military Power Act is not yet in place. It is precisely that area of military services, which are most criticized, that is the Office of Defense. Your party has very good relations with this one. I remember that not too long ago – in the course of the Zilk affair it was – high-ranking officials of the Defense Office, among them the unkind Mr. Feldmann, when I have seen it right, have migrated to the SPÖ Club. So there are very good contacts. Mr. Feldmann is also in serious correspondence with your clubman. Then you have to put on the problems elsewhere. You have a direct wire there. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: He has already been in the group with you!]] Now on recordings, films and camera critiques of the Greens: Demonstrations are recorded – demonstrations: show themselves. The purpose is to show up at such demonstrations. You're not afraid to call the ORF to get on television either. And what's bad about being shown by photographs by the Ministry of the Interior that one comes up against a car, ruins a puke, or ingests an outlay, Mrs. Kammerlander, or defends the criminals? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Excuse me, but you have no idea of the fundamental right! I don't know! That's a terrible thing!]] – That’s what you demand, that criminals be covered. Now to your paper, in which you say it is not understandable why new measures are required. [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: A civil right is that! You have a mind! That's terrible!]] You are therefore necessary because there is a new form of crime, an extremely dangerous form of crime that you deny. And there are no doubt mistakes in the Austrian system. These maladministrations are technical, in the Ministry of the Interior they are methodological, and they are organizational. In the Ministry of the Interior, one believes that it is only through the acquisition of equipment that one can acquire competence. That's too little, Minister! [[Calls and calls between the Abg. May. Chamberlanders and the liberals.]] If your officials give you this, they'll be fooled. You can't acquire decades of experience. This would be the case for cooperation instead of small disputes in the internal area. The same applies, Mr Federal Minister, to other areas of cooperation, because crime is international. International cooperation is needed, and the cooperation of the authorities between them is necessary. One will have to think about whether there are no newer and better ways of the necessary – because they are necessary – intelligence services. The fact that we have problems because of the state police in the past is another chapter. It is essentially, however, also – and this must be said in conclusion – that it is a matter of better control. Because this one is in trouble with us, and it's about this one. Not only should it be a control, because these committees should be informed of the work of the services in this context as well. For if they were informed about the work of the services, then much of the senseless prejudices that are brought again and again would be from the tapet.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12658	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. The remaining speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12680	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have broken your request into two parts: I and II. "I. Domestic in the narrower sense": My previous speakers have discussed this, I will not come to talk about it. Only one comment to the Minister for the Interior: He explained that the views of the opposition had been taken into account at the time of the introduction of noise attack and grid arrest. – Only at a certain stage before the decision-making was it explained to us that it was possible to do everything. But then came Rudi Machacek as a legal guardian and the deadline that no one takes seriously. Machacek may I forgive you: It is a fig leaf in this context and no longer, and the term is an alibi treatment. Now on my real topic: Please make the effort – it is actually laborious, I do not want to say that to the author in a small way – and read the extensive part II of the complaint! He's extremely informative. He shows that everything in Part I, which we've been dealing with for hours now, is actually a embarrassing, a real embarrassing compared to what's already broken into the world about us. The Americans hear – that's completely undisputed, all insiders know that, and it's the subject of papers quoted in this part of II – all in phone calls, everything on the way at fax, everything on the way with e-mail, all over the world. They get what they need with keywords. The pretext is the fight against terrorism, the fight against crime, but they do so a little bit according to their traditional cowboy manner and make sure that they do not fall short economically. It is true that, through this extensive knowledge, they provide a competitive advantage in areas of the economy which cannot be underestimated, which is always at billions of dollars per occasion and which should be essential for the United States to be so easy at present. I know a case from my practice that in the Austrian field these AWACS machines, which are supposed to be on the way to see the right in Bosnia, have been looked into the databases of Austrian businesses. The machines, which look like transport machines, which have a strange frame above, are used to electronically look into the civil databases also – under quotation marks – "neutral" countries such as Austria. You have to know all of this, you have to take this into account! This is globalisation, ladies and gentlemen. These are the consequences of globalisation, as we must take note of it. I hope it is not too late for us to be able to defend ourselves against it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12726	No one is reporting on this. This concludes the debate on the urgent question. Short debate on Question Time 4619/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12747	Next, as announced, we arrive at the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs with the number of orders of 4619/AB. The answer to this question has been distributed in written form, so that a reading is not necessary. We are going into the debate. You know that according to § 57a GOG no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, except for the founder. The first speaker or the first speaker has a maximum speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. As an applicant for the request, Mrs Dr Schmidt will open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12782	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have today requested a debate on a written reply to a request from the Liberals, because we were disappointed, Mrs Minister, that your reply does not indicate that on the one hand you feel the situation in which people are affected by these measures, which I am going to talk about, and on the other hand, you still seem to assume that data protection works in Austria. We still have time to prevent something at the door. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can hide a little back there when the Liberals raised this question: We learned at the end of July that the AMS is looking for test institutes; Test institutes to test the professional, health, as well as mental qualifications of people who are unemployed and therefore come to the AMS to get work and to be taught by him. In these tender documents, we noticed several things that scared us. On the one hand, health conditions are mentioned in the aspects to be tested. For example: To determine health restrictions, damage to the musculature and support apparatus, allergies, psychiatricly diagnosed diseases, addiction diseases and the like, knowing that labour law, fortunately, provides for a protection of the private and intimate atmosphere when the employer does not specify the specificity of certain diseases. There's something going to be asked, and then it's going to be great. The statements on this point are only mentioned for the sake of completeness and serve exclusively for your information. – I told you before what to like about it. What "security" is given here is known. But that alone was not it yet, although that would be bad enough. Then come the qualities to be grasped such as general intelligence, learning ability, memory, formal-logical thinking, ability to structure, reliability, stress resistance, tolerance and more. Below is to read: All collected data are transferred to the possession of the AMS Wien. This, Mrs Minister, has prompted us to make an alarm in the public, because here people are being made in a certain situation, namely in a situation of stress, data which they put in a corner from which they never come out again. One has to imagine the mental situation of someone who is still unemployed for a long time to undergo tests. From this momentary state, data are recorded, these are still stored at the AMS and will be made dependent on how to deal with this person in the future and whether he is still suitable for a particular job. This is the emphasis on a bad starting position of a human being and not the giving of a chance. After we went to the media, a lot of people reported to us. That confirmed us. It has, for example, been reported by an unemployed academic who has said that he has made a therapy and that his consultant has then said that he should teach a neurological opinion, for otherwise there will have to be some consideration in the further payment of emergency aid. Another job seeker has made an AMS course and was perhaps not as good there as people who are in a situation where they depend on others, namely, that they are beautifully quiet and good and do not object. This woman – she admits to herself – was a "bittent" as she expressed it herself, on which the head of the course told her to be a little quiet, because with prep punishment the poking was not appropriate on her own rights anyway. – As far as data protection is concerned. In this situation, we have learned that the Red Cross has been conducting such tests for a year and a half, with the support of the AMS. After we had brought this to the public, Mr Klaus Werner, the Vienna-based head of state of the AMS, has reported and said: He told the Red Cross not to carry out such tests anymore, because a mixture of investigations – now at once! - no longer appears to be permissible. – I share his opinion, but it is only interesting that he has come to this insight only as a result of making public. Then, on the first plenary day, Mrs. Minister, we have sent a question to you because, on the one hand, we did not believe the voluntary nature of these tests, as described in the media, and we still did not appear credible – and on the other, because we were concerned about which data, and sensitive data, will be collected here, which will then be in the AMS – and all this in the light of all the measures that this House, with its majority, is constantly deciding: from a noise attack to a grid search to an upcoming security police law, with all the shortcomings we know, and with all the permissiveness that then concerns a personality layer of which we have once said that it is protected. And then, Mrs Minister, give us an answer – and this is why we want to talk about it today – in which you say: "The planned tests are voluntary and are not linked to the assessment of the AlVG performance. The participation or refusal of a test therefore does not have an impact on the further performance, but rather serves to assess the appropriateness of the courses offered or desired." Mrs. Minister! That this is a formal answer, as you always get it, you know, but if we address a parliamentary question to you in the sensitivity of this question, we hope you know the situation of these people, because that is your place, you have to do with these people constantly. They therefore know that there can be no voluntary talk at all. They know that employees of the AMS who have a job seeker and who decide whether or not to continue the job will be transferred or not, or whether the emergency aid will be removed, are still promised if they take sanctions such as the suspension of payments. So on the one hand there is a certain pressure on the people of the AMS and on the other hand, of course, a much greater pressure on the so-called customers. If such an AMS employee sits opposite and asks: Do you want to do a test? And then you answer with a No, you know what that means. You do not go into such a situation with a word, but you formally say that it is voluntary. – We already knew the formality, but it does not agree with reality. And we have missed the fact that you are only addressing this situation with one sentence. - That's the one side. If you are talking about who these data are available, and say that the labour market service will only pass the test results on to the tested customers themselves, without in any way even relating to the fact that even you know that this is only formally correct, but in reality is often "deeped", often will violate it, then we simply fear and worry that you are not aware of the dimension here. Therefore, we ask ourselves: What are these tests necessary for? For what is it necessary to spend an amount of say and write 28 million schilling for that? This amount of 28 million schilling is investing in an active labour market policy, because these people have something to do with it. But here in order to put a lot of money into an alibi action, in order to have the possibility, perhaps on occasion – perceptive observation is important, as is known – so in advance, what people have to do with, where there are databases where data on mental and physical health are included, where one can see that one is turning away from the rest of the population, we do not think acceptable. It may well be that there may be a detection that specializes in this area, which may also get a summary from there or there. We all know that all of this has already happened. In the light of all of this, you start an action in which you are looking for test institutes that can provide you with such databases. And this, Mrs. Minister, we do not think it is reasonable! Since all this should take place only next year, and we are still in the situation to prevent this, we call on you: Stop Get this action! It was not only the liberals and political mandates who expressed concern. You have read and seen how psychologists questioned the suitability of such tests – the degree of scientific faith is surprising to me in this regard – and you have also recognized what sensitive area is being held there, which on the one hand does not have to be representative of a life and on the other hand is not sure about access by others. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, Mrs Minister, our appeal: Stop the action and invest this money better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12875	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12896	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dr Schmidt, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to say: I'm not doing any action. This is not an action by me, not one of my departments, but an initiative within the framework of the task of the labour market service. I would therefore like to make it quite clear that this is not an action of mine and that it is not directly within my sphere of responsibility. They have asked me a parliamentary question; I have tried to answer it according to best knowledge and conscience in such a way that the exact message "comes over" – in terms of content and also emotional. I regret that you did not read these two messages in the same way as I could read your current statements, but I believe that parliamentary responses have to be recorded in the first place and refer to facts. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it to be a kind of pretense if, if the fact of voluntaryity is kept here – and I ask several times – you are again indirectly questioning whether it is actually voluntary. I can tell you the following: I've been a works councillor for decades, I've been a trade unionist for decades. I have experience in dealing with people in difficult situations, I also have experience in dealing with those involved in the labour market service, the employees. I know that there are sensitive issues. But I also know that colleagues in the labour market service are dealing with their task with high quality, responsibility and sensitivity. If you give examples here if you find inconsistencies – I have already said this to other ladies and gentlemen of this House – I may ask you: Let me give you this example. Tell me where and who this happened! Only then can I also act in the supervisory function that I have in my house, and, if a wrong decision is made, if there is a misbehaviour or also an insensitive behaviour, can I try to stop it, so that it is done precisely in the common responsibility that you wish me to wish for, which this House really wants. Ladies and gentlemen! I do believe that the answer to the question has been in detail in a form that shows with which access I too am looking at and illuminating this question. However, I believe that the labour market service already has the responsibility, in the implementation of a public service contract, to deal with the positive very effectively, ladies and gentlemen, who are looking for work, need the advice that certain qualifications require, really see, make the right decisions and make the right offers. It is in the experience of the labour market service, in my experience, but also in that of the private sector, that various tests show that various forms of surveys can significantly help to make decisions more effective, more efficient and therefore better decisions for those concerned. Allow me to say only one thing that surprises me right now with you, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt. Here only a form of a test is questioned and criticized regarding labour market service. If you are opposed to such measures, you must also urge them in the private sector and say: That is not a common way, I want it to be impossible in the private sector to make such forms of screening, of personality acquisition, of questioning. There must be no questionnaires, there must be no questionnaires, there must be no assessment centres, nothing at all. I mean, this differentiated attitude to what will be granted to the AMS and what is seen as correct, necessary and appropriate in the private sector is a contradiction that I personally do not understand – especially with a party such as the Liberal Forum, with a person and personality like you, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, it is. I therefore believe that it is the responsibility of the labour market service to find suitable methods to carry out the task in respect of all data protection requirements. I have no reason – and I have really questioned this – to doubt that data protection regulations are being violated somewhere. I also know that, with regard to the sensitivity of those responsible for labour market services, especially as a result of the public debate, in particular because of the transparency that must be given in all actions, there is a sense of responsibility. I would also ask you to be able to apply new forms of consultation, mediation, but also the joint assessment of a way in the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12959	We continue in the debate. Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). A speaking time of 5 minutes applies to you and the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e12983	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kier's request for the Liberal Forum contains the accusation to the labour market service that the psychological tests - I say now - are not carried out on a voluntary basis as regards the suitability for certain jobs and with regard to certain qualifications measures. At the same time, it is assumed that the labour market service does not deal with the data obtained during this screening. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Mrs Hostasch has just made very clear – and I would like to say once again – that the accusation you make to the AMS actually seems something strange. If you put up daily newspapers – and I certainly don't need to tell you – it's really the case that job vacancies are going through recruitment agencies or through human resources consulting companies and jobs are awarded effective testing only because of very - I say now. This is done for a particular reason: Of course, such a staff consulting company wants to know for its client the order in such a way that the appropriate person who is being sought also gets this job. I'm just wondering if the same care will be taken in keeping data, as you demand from the AMS. As Mrs Minister has already said, I would also like to see the AMS, after it has been distributed from the direct federal administration, to be able to claim the same rules of play as private in the market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Whether data protection provisions are complied with everywhere, Mr Oellinger, as they do with the AMS, I also sometimes wish to doubt. There has been a constant criticism of the labour market service over the years that applicants are being sent to firms, although their qualifications do not match or do not meet the requirements of the companies. Now a job of the labour market service is trying to do what has been done for a long time, or for decades, in a project that has been properly designed and about which there is every possible transparency – that is also to say – to do what, as has been said, Private has been doing for many years, most of it less transparent – as you have to be honest as well – and suddenly there is a huge whirlwind on the part of the Liberal Forum on the part of this labour market service project in connection with the protection of job seekers and data protection. [[Abg. Ollinger: Righted vertebra, isn't it?]] I would like you to give a concrete example and not always say something that is not tangible and not understandable. [[Abg. Oellinger: Come on!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You know that these people...!]] The following question really arises for me: What is it that you want to achieve? – If you wish to prohibit all institutions, including the AMS, from carrying out personnel tests – as Mrs Minister has already said – because they could endanger personal protection, it must also be said clearly and clearly. Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not a problem!]] It can't be that one can do it, one can't blame them, but the other can't, and they're constantly being blamed. To clarify: Of course, the legal provisions must be observed on the spot and on the cover and can also be implemented. That is of course! But that's what the AMS is all about. And, of course, the AMS as a public law body is considered a different form of transparency from that of private companies. We are also aware of that. However, it must not happen that the administration in the AMS and also in the Ministry is paralysed by the fact that each document and telephone call of the AMS is monitored by the supervisory authority and Parliament and may be controlled in advance. Control shall be carried out to the extent provided for by law, but not as a shock and not as a prevention strategy.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13064	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13086	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was certainly a very important and forward-looking decision when labour market management was extended five years ago and transferred to national organisations, but also to regional labour market services, more skills and more responsibilities. This was an important decision – a decision that has also been successful, as we have seen several times in recent years. The AMS Vienna is therefore responsible for what has happened there, and not the Federal Minister! We cannot release the AMS Vienna out of this responsibility, which must be clearly and clearly established. That is why not only Mrs Dr. Schmidt, but also Mrs Ridi Steibl, has sent a question to Mrs. Federal Minister, asking: What's going on at the AMS Vienna? Why are there so many emergency workers there? Why is the number of unemployed in Vienna much higher than in the other Länder? She asked two questions: Is this because of regional economic policy or because the AMS Vienna uses a different practice in the labour market management than the other federal organizations? – We heard: In Vienna another practice is practiced, this practice of the AMS Vienna was and is not promising! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already pointed out this abuse in summer and criticised the conduct of the tests, because I believe that this is not the task of the AMS. It should also not be compared with the inclusion of an employee in a company. If I need someone for a certain function, I need more information than the AMS for a mediation. This comparison is certainly not correct. I would recommend to the AMS Vienna to find out what the other country organizations are doing. For example, through the "Action Triathlon", the AMS Upper Austria was able to successfully integrate a large number of young people into the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I would recommend that the AMS Vienna inform itself about the "Action Activ" in the other federal states and consider it as a matter of enabling women to re-enter their working life. This action has already achieved great success in other federal states – not only in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! And I would also recommend that the leadership structures of the AMS Vienna be finally clarified and clarified – a very important task that the AMS Vienna would have to fulfil! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opinion that, in conclusion, it would be desirable that the AMS Vienna, the labour market service, should also be noted: Service! – Vienna as well as all other country organisations tried to implement the National Employment Action Plan in Austria. I have the impression that this action plan is not accepted and implemented by the AMS Vienna to that extent, as is the case in many other national organizations. Ladies and gentlemen! There are other points that could be mentioned on this issue. It is not primarily Mrs Minister's fault, that must be said quite clearly. I believe that the Minister has answered correctly and honestly – this is to be underlined and welcomed! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Steibl.]] But I cannot defend the activity of the AMS Vienna, but I have to criticize it just as I have done elsewhere. His activity differs in principle from the successful labour market policy activities of other national organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13150	Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch spoke again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few additional comments on the debate contribution made by Mr Dr. Feurstein. It seems that the information about Vienna – i.e. the country of Vienna, the city of Vienna and the labour market service in Vienna – as the first federal state has completed a territorial employment pact and has therefore carried out a pioneer service – also for the other federal states – in the implementation of the National Employment Action Plan. I think this is worth mentioning in the light of the criticism that Vienna does not function as other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I believe that the Vienna labour market has special features, as there are quite different problems in all major cities in Europe – and thus also in the big city of Vienna – than in rural regions, in small and medium-sized cities. Vienna is particularly affected by structural change and the restrictive recruitment policy not only of the public sector, but also of the banking, insurance and social insurance sector – that is, large companies that in the past have always had the potential to take up school leavers, but also job-seekers, graduates of universities. – These are just a few examples to highlight that the Vienna labour market situation is not necessarily comparable to that in other federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13214	Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13235	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You just heard it yourself: Mr. Feurstein criticised the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs in so far as the AMS Vienna shines through failure, does nothing and its figures are much worse than those of the AMS offices of the other federal states. Now we hear from the Federal Minister that the very opposite is the case: The AMS Vienna is a pioneer for the federal states. – We no longer know who speaks the truth, who even says the right thing! My dear Mrs. Federal Minister! You are already known from several responses to the questions as to how to give your answers. But what you give us in this reply goes beyond that! For example, you write in the answer to Question 9: "However, as far as you have further questions..." [[Federal Minister Hostasch talks with the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] The interviewer Schmidt informs you directly! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] May I ask for your appreciated attention, Mrs. Federal Minister? [[Abg. Meisinger: So rude!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No political culture, Mrs. Schmidt!]] I hope that this will be deducted from my speaking time. "However, as far as you have further questions, I am of course willing to inform you about everything to dispel your doubts about the legality of the process of labour market service." – Mrs Federal Minister! That is why Mr Kier has put this question: so that you can give him the answer in writing. He has waited two months for it, and now you point out that you are willing to answer these questions. They even steal from the responsibility, because you write that since the labour market service has been distributed from the federal administration, you "only have the supervision" over the AMS – only the supervision! But if 28.3 million schillings are tossed for a psycho-screening, of which you don't want your own information at all, that it plays a role for the person concerned after that, then I have to ask you: Which standards do you measure? You're called a screening good that costs 28 million schilling! If an opposition party, in this case by the Liberal Forum, points out that this screening in your opinion is not in order, then say: This psychotest does not need to be done; if it is done, it should in no way have the slightest impact on its professional progress for the job seeker concerned. Mrs. Federal Minister, why, if you have oversight of the AMS, do you continue to perform this psycho-screening by 28 million Schilling? – Everyone is really wondering: Do these millions not lack the AMS for active labour market policies? If the AMS does not have to do more important than order a private company to conduct a study whose content the AMS, as it knows – at least answer the request – must not be used at all, as there must be no discrimination. [[Federal Minister for Hostasch.]] Now shake your head! [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Because it is not true!]] If you had not been told by the applicants, you wouldn't have come up with it at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I'm not against this psycho survey. Someone who goes to a expensive re-training programme – and that's an expensive measure! – to be admitted, this psycho-screening can also be done on a voluntary basis, so that it can also make an expensive re-training that meets its desired goal and not a prescribed goal. This test is primarily used to determine the appropriateness between the desired training and the training offered. But now, in the answer to the question, it is not about the appropriateness – you do not say it literally – that this test should not create a disadvantage for the job-seekers. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Why? That's not true!]] But if he does not receive the training required and desired by him, but only a training that the AMS considers to be correct and important, then this is a direct consequence of this psychotest. It therefore has consequences if the job seeker undergoes this test. In my opinion, this is not bad either, because someone who wants to have an adequate job via a private mediation institution often has to finance himself a expensive retraining programme and then also wants to know whether he is suitable for it or not. He certainly asks himself: Is it right that I invest my own money in this re-training or not? The AMS works with public funds and should therefore also know whether it is properly investing or not. Mrs. Federal Minister! You don't need to withdraw, because these screening tests are not bad! But you say they can't be used. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Why not?]] If you do not use it, then save this 28 million schilling for the screening measures and put this money instead into an active labour market policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13348	Mr Dr Kier. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13369	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My club woman has already addressed a few essential aspects in her speech, and you, Mrs Bundesminister, have, in part, also addressed them. Only we are still not really happy and, above all, not satisfied with it. Fortunately, we don't have to be – that's not a category in this business – but we should be happy with the answer. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to highlight a few additional points. They have greatly extended the voluntaryity. You've cut them out, you've been insisting on it. But you should take a closer look at the answer to the question. I shall now read to you a question, a partial question, and the answer to that question. A partial question was: "Do the test persons have a right to receive the complete test results?" Your answer was: "There is no legal right to receive the complete test results, but the test institution is contractually obliged to inform the test persons of the result." If you analyze this thoroughly and carefully, you can conclude that you are in your capacity as a supervisory authority – I would like to admit that, and I will address this aspect even more closely – that there is no legal claim, but the test institution is contractually obliged. It is true that such a contract exists with the test institution, so it would not be at all difficult to make this contract three-sided, so that the test person has legal claims of a direct nature vis-à-vis the test institution. But this is not done, so the test person, as you said correctly, has no legal claim. The test institution is only contractually obliged to do so to the AMS, and whether that is then complied with or not is uncertain. Before such backgrounds and in view of the fact that those people who ask the person concerned whether they want to be tested are the same who decide on welfare and woe, and in particular on repayment or non-repayment of emergency aid, this will be relative to a formal act. You can still design so many documents that you will then have the people sign that you are free to sign it and confirm the voluntaryity several times by signature, the real content of the voluntaryity, which is an internal question, does not change anything if the frames are so tight. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have pointed out in your reply to the question that we should be very happy and satisfied, because the AMS, the former AMC, was distributed, and it corresponds to the political ideas of the Liberal Forum when something is extended. I have to tell you: You are right, but you have not listened to what criticism we have expressed in the last few weeks and months in terms of AMS. We have said that it was an abuse of distribution, for the simple reason that, on the one hand, the public tasks and public tasks of the social sovereignty administration – you yourself have said that the AMS has a public-law mission – have been divided into a common package, with the great disadvantage that all that is actually public-law and very strict is no longer administered in your home, but in a distributed place, and on the other hand, all that has been and would have been and would have been and would have been, and as you would call it, now shared with the public-law tasks, so that the other is disabled. As long as you do not separate the mediation and training activities from the abduction question and the emergency aid question et cetera – that is, everything that is public-law – in the sense of a real division, you will not really continue for so long. This is also behind the dilemma of these comic questionnaires. If you accuse the private sector that there are also screenings or assessment centers there, then you are confusing the links of action, because those people who put themselves in the private sector to an assessment center or submit to another test are not threatened by the withdrawal of emergency aid. That is why I think it is correct that this is not your immediate area of action, but the political responsibility lies with you, because it is possible to repair disseminatings which are wrong! That does not mean that we want to know them taken back, but it would be repairable. You could do some of this at the level of your ministry: You have an entire section with excellent people who are perfectly mastering that which you have broken through the de facto breakdown, and you wonder that the overcrowded AMS cannot afford all of this. I would like to say a final sentence on the Red Cross. They have mentioned themselves that it has been abandoned as a result of the public debate. But then the question arises: Why was this possible and permissible for a year and a half before, and why did no one notice that? Unfortunately, you have not really addressed these aspects in our request. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So I repeat: The now planned new tests for 2 800 S per test person with a accompanying control of two years with the aspect of testing both mental and professional qualifications – it will not be possible! Mrs Bundesminister, the next question is certainly yours. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13434	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13456	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feurstein, a brief comment: I remember your intention well – and that is why I am voting. So simple and so cheap to want to clean up on unemployment in Vienna at the AMS Vienna, I do not think it should be done. That's not enough for me. The oberösterreichische Method of converting long-term unemployed into new unemployed through short-term employment is not a recipe that would be well suited for labour market policy in the future. I come to the real issue, which is more important to me. I'm already here with the other federal states. The amazing thing in the course of this debate, too, Mr Feurstein, was that it was not only Vienna that carried out the tests. Also in other federal states, wild and coin-results are tested. Of course, everyone is keen to see that this does not become public, because no one wants to suffer the fate of the Wiener AMS, which has been clearly demonstrated in this debate – and you have now been open enough. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to comment on a number of points. You said it was not an action to be taken by the Federal Ministry. First question: The action of the Red Cross is a very mysterious matter. There were and will be sent by the regional offices in Vienna to the people for health tests, and they will be told what to bring and who will receive the results of the investigation. That's what it says: These examination sheets will be sent exclusively to your maintainer/supervisor in the AMS, we will not disclose any personal data to third parties. – Not even the consultants of these regional offices knew that psycho-screenings were made at the Red Cross. My information is – and I now ask quite openly – that the state AMS was obviously not interested in the evaluation of these psycho screenings, but, according to my information, it is the Federal Ministry. I would therefore also like to see clarification from your side in this regard. - You shake your head. A second point. – You said: No link between these questionnaire actions and the Federal Ministry. I have a letter written to you by the head of the Bundes-AMS, Herbert Buchinger, regarding psychotests in the AMS: Proposals to calm down criticism, that is to say. That's changed due to Walter Pfneisl's suggestion. This gentleman is also from your ministry. Herbert Buchinger therefore makes proposals as to how to prevent public excitement and criticism by signing three explanations of approval for all questionnaire actions in the future. Firstly, a declaration of approval on the suitability tests and the exploitation of the results. Secondly, a declaration of approval that the test results are withdrawn in electronic form and will be used in the future for the same purposes for which they were originally produced. Thirdly, a statement that this first and second declaration was made without pressure and voluntarily. Then the interpretation is interpreted: Those who only sign the first and third statements can be approved for the corresponding test. Whoever only signs the first declaration, especially if the third declaration is refused, cannot be approved for an aptitude test. In any case, a medical examination to determine the ability to work under § 8 of the Unemployment Insurance Act is in question. The penalty: In § 8 – Health Testing – of course, the exclusion from performance is defined. – This is also mentioned in further episodes by Herbert Buchinger; I can read it to you. These investigations, in whose refusal a penalty according to § 8 para. 2 AlVG threatens, should not run through the test institution in question. – This is, after all, the proposal of the head of the Federal Office who was addressed to you and who, in my opinion, voluntarily provides a very clear answer to the questions we ask. Mrs Bundesminister, another point: The Landes-AMS says very clearly that the data will only be passed on to the data subject. There is a decision of the National Directorate. From your page I hear in the request that the data should be deleted. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are more questions open than answers have been given, and I am therefore seeking further and intensive treatment of this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13527	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13548	I now take the negotiations on the 5th. Agenda item again. I have one more word message, and I would ask you to make sure that you are present. We shall vote after this one speech if we do not make any further comments. Mr Grollitsch came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13576	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should therefore like to take the debate back to a mining protection problem, because it seems that it is a problem, Mrs Federal Minister, even if you do not see a connection to Lassing and even if you did not see any need for action on this issue last year. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 1 January 1989 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In July If one reads this agreement, it cannot be overlooked, Mrs Federal Minister, that the agreement will become unnecessary if the provisions have already reached the level of security provided for by the agreement through national legislation and through practice. Ladies and gentlemen! That, I think, was the case in the head of the ministers when they asked for only a note of this agreement. This is also the spiritual horizon that we learn from a question answered by Mr Farnleitner. Mrs Petrovic asked him about Lassing, and he replied to point 49: The preventive measures in the field of safety at work in the mining industry are successful and in principle gratifying. So if one assumes that we have best legal regulations, then there is no need for action. Nevertheless, we support this agreement. We have voted in committee and will also vote here today, because we do not believe that everything is right. Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not know if you know that, since records of mining accidents, there has not been a single year – I am correcting myself – only one year since there was no fatal mining accidents in Austria, that was the year 1990. In every other year, there were such accidents, namely: 1985 three, 1986 four, 1987 three, 1988 two and so on. These are sad results in a work area that is admittedly extremely dangerous. It makes no sense to close your eyes to it, because the number of serious accidents in mining, Mrs Bundesminister, has substantially reduced during the time of recording, about this century. Since there have been records: Per million working hours heavy accidents about 1988 17,3, 1993 18.8. This is a constant development, which shows once again clearly: Mining is dangerous! We have seen a decline in the mining industry in the underground mining industry, and the "Austrian Manual for Montan Wesens" states that there are only two farms in Austria that hold the mine rescue services. The agreement to be ratified today provides that the mine rescue service should be extended accordingly, and of course it is also necessary for us to take action in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! It cannot be assumed that such services exist only in two companies. I know there are agreements with Germany, I know that there is also such a service in the Federal Army, but that can't be it. It must simply be the fire brigade or other organizations must jump in here. Lassing has clearly shown this, Mrs Federal Minister, even if you oppose the fact that there is a connection. I do not really understand that you do not want to make this connection on your own. What is evil about learning from this terrible event? Some have learned from it, and I have the feeling that this template, which is to be decided today, of course already has to do with Lassing from the time and content and is a lesson from it. Hopefully, it's a positive teaching. Let us not close our eyes to it, and let us simply admit that we have slept a year ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13628	There is no further word message to this effect. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. First of all, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Convention (No. 176) on the protection of work in mines in 1463 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the approval to have a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the majority. The authorisation shall be granted by a majority. We are now voting on the proposal of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which is the subject of the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50. 2 Federal Constitutional Law must be fulfilled by passing laws. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This request has been accepted by the majority. Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the recommendation (No. 183) on the protection of work in mines in 1463. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the adoption of the recommendation, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The recommendation will be adopted by a majority. 6. Point First reading of application 863/A by Mr Karl Ollinger and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13698	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant is Mr Oellinger. I give him the floor as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13726	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have tabled this request because, in the context of our desire to supplement and extend the list of occupational diseases in order to supplement and extend the diseases provided for in the European list of occupational diseases, this point, which was very important to us and which remains, has not been discussed. For years workers' representatives have been calling for something to change in the field of occupational diseases in our country. I have – perhaps almost a personal hobby – always made it my task to point out that Austria is a European unique in the field of occupational diseases. While in all other European countries occupational diseases have increased over the last 10 to 20 years or have been able to reduce only where there has been very good health protection, since the beginning of the 1990s, we in Austria have seen the phenomenon that the number of occupational diseases does not grow, is not stagnated, but is greatly declining. It starts with 1989. In 1988 we still had 2,800 occupational diseases, in 1989 it was 1,750, i.e. 40 percent less. The statistics on accident insurance indicate that it is only about problems in the computerized survey this year that this manko will be eliminated again next year. If we read about the development of occupational diseases over the next few years, it will be found that this nod, which took place in 1989, continues in principle in all other years and we are in Austria in 1996/97, I believe, 1 300 or 1 400 occupational diseases are located; this would be a halve compared to the eighties. This halvation is not to be understood scientifically. It cannot be proved that in the field of worker protection or protection from occupational diseases in Austria, something so serious would have changed positively. This half-life is also not in line with the statistics which it has said were only necessary for a computer changeover. This should actually be the cause of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a lot in the wrong place here. One of the points that leads to this is, in addition to many other points which I do not want to mention here, of course, the financial situation of the accident insurance institution which has to pay for these diseases and which, instead of paying only the diseases, but also providing prevention, each year in the same agreement between Red and Black has preferred contributions to the Federal budget, because anyway there is so much money and so little to make. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, we know that in Austria – and this can be seen in statistics at another point; the colleague Reitsamer can certainly agree with me; the statistics on early retirement due to diseases make this clear – very many people who have to go to retirement early must go because they are too sick to work because they are too "used". All these diseases, which would have to be found in the professional lists – if the tape discs were ruined because they were working as a mason on the scaffolding, because they worked as a long-distance driver or because they worked as a nurse – are not found in them, but they are found in the list of early retirement pensions, and the people who have therefore become so ill, because they have been so "used" in the profession, will also be blamed for claiming this retirement. In view of that, I ask myself: What is this system of accident prevention and accident prevention, in this sense also occupational disease prevention, which potentifies, triples costs in another place, because health protection and the area in which these figures should be recovered are so extremely neglected? That's the real problem. One of the points that is responsible for this is also a general clause – this is the case here in this section 177 para. 2 – which is not a general clause in the sense that it would allow all diseases which have not been valued in the occupational disease list to be considered occupational diseases only if they have been clearly demonstrated, but which only allow certain diseases as occupational diseases, i.e. if they have been caused by active substances or by radiation. That is, loads by carrying, lifting, by wetting, cold, heat, stress can not even be recognized as occupational diseases if they were clearly – clearly, what is not always easy to prove – caused by this. The second point in this so-called general clause, which is not a general clause, is that these diseases will only be recognized if they mean a reduction in employment by at least 50 per cent, while the otherwise common rule that 20 per cent is sufficient for recognition is not valid in this general clause. There we have found a point, one among many, in which it is understandable that this general clause is not only wrong and is not a general clause, but that, under many other causes, it is a cause for so few people to find recognition for their occupational disease, although they have actually become ill by the profession. This is the point to be debated, ladies and gentlemen. The legislator is called upon to make this false general clause a real general clause. Everyone speaks out for it – not only the Chamber of Labour, not only as far as I know, the labour inspectorate, also accident insurance, at least essential exponents express themselves in favour of having a real general clause, and yet there is no such one. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the point and reason why we are making this request: because the measures we are calling for, in our view, many people, nurses, lorry drivers and many other professional groups, who are not affected by lifting and carrying, but by occupational diseases, which have only been properly covered and recognized, would offer an opportunity to receive recognition of their damage. The fact that so little has been done in this area so far and that the legislator and the relevant social security institutions, but also the Ministry, have not yet been prepared to take such action, speaks volumes and shows, in fact, how poorly developed the willingness of the responsible bodies to help those concerned to have a little more rights to recognise and thus also to ensure that what is still causing suffering and sickness in the working world can be minimized. Ladies and gentlemen! That would actually be a matter for all of us here in this House, and I am therefore very keen to see how the other parties and their representatives will respond to this proposal from the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13803	I call Mr Dietachmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13824	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think, Mr Oellinger, that the most important measures in this context should, of course, be taken. I know that it is not possible to do everything at once, but I think that the most important thing is to make sure that occupational diseases do not arise at all. I am aware that something will always happen, but that the number of occupational diseases is falling, as you have referred to it, I think the effect of the fact that in recent years there has been a great deal of work in the protection of workers, a great deal of prevention has been done and numerous preventive measures have been taken to limit the number of occupational diseases. The application of the Greens differs from the current text of the Law in § 77 para. 2 only by the few words: "by the use of harmful substances and rays". This is the difference between the text proposed by you and the current law. From the employee's point of view, it should be noted that at present only the accident insurance provider can use this general clause. The individual insured person can refer to this § 77 para. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's right what you said: Only if accident insurance is established and only if there is secure scientific evidence, this general clause shall apply. It might be desirable that the insured person himself should refer to this general clause. It would also be possible for the insured person to submit an application in accordance with para. 2 sets. As a result, accident insurance should be given a corresponding notice, which could then be fought by the insured person in court. That would also be a possibility worth being discussed. In addition, it would be necessary to consider whether the burden of proof could otherwise be distributed. One could divide the burden of proof so that the insured person must only prove that he has worked with harmful substances and, secondly, he is seriously ill. If these two conditions are met, the proof of proof should refer to the fact that the disease of the insured person is related to his professional activity. [[Abg. Oillinger: We'll be there right now!]] It is only when accident insurance can prove that the disease has occurred for another reason, for example through inheritance or something else, that there may be no occupational disease. That too would be a common path. [[Abg. Oillinger: Make an application!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You see, that's not a simple matter at all. In the course of extrajudicial decisions, it was repeatedly stated quite clearly that the decisions had not yet been made within the meaning of the workers. As an example, I have here an extrajudicial decision from 1987, in which it reads: "A disease as a occupational disease according to § 77 para. 2 ASVG cannot be examined as a preliminary question in the social court proceedings." – This is a very clear statement. A second decision from 1988 reads as follows: "The recognition of diseases other than those already included in Appendix 1 is only possible by the accident insurance institution." Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== ASVG-Novelle 1976 we have already discussed and defined this general clause, but in the restricted form cited. In recent times, a number of other diseases have also come closer to the picture of occupational diseases. For example, tendon sebaceous diseases as well as spinal diseases are controversial. I think it was right that the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs asked the accident insurance institution to carry out a thorough examination of the problem of the inclusion of occupational vortex damage and tendon separatism in the list of occupational diseases by the end of 1999. I think that if these documents are available, we can also consult the Committee accordingly and, if necessary, implement a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13873	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13895	Mr President. High house! The proposal tabled by Mr Öllinger and his friends certainly has no special rarity. We have already dealt with this issue in several social committee meetings. We have to note that there are ongoing changes in this area too, but at the same time we can also point out that we are not only doing modern but current and problem-related things in terms of worker protection. It is, in general, a very good law that we have to deal with here. The list of occupational diseases is legally standardised. It is certainly not as broad as the European Union's directive, but there is no obligation to comply with this directive. In addition, I would like to say very clearly that we refer to our job list on our labour market, to our economy, to our demands, but also to our specificities and dangers, while the European Union, in its directives, is very much referring to the width and width of the Union and to the potential for risk for all Member States. Mr Oellinger referred to the fact that, in his view, the general clause we have constitutes a kind of special clause. – Mr Oillinger! I don't see it in any way. We have a correct list of occupational diseases, and there is also the possibility that in individual cases, if the reduction in employability is 50 per cent or more, and if one can assume that this damage has been caused solely by the professional activity, the Ministry can agree to an approval procedure. I think that is enough for the time being. At one of the last committee meetings, we agreed that there should be a Commission, a committee dealing with this issue, and that, of course, we must address the current needs in these discussions. However, I would like to say very clearly to the representatives of the Ministry in my contribution to the debate that I am surprised that in this committee, which represents the AUVA, the main association and the ministry are not represented, but that the social insurance institution of farmers as the second largest accident insurance institution does not have the opportunity to participate in the consultation. I believe that this must be remedied, because we too want to bring in our knowledge, our concerns and our expectations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One can, of course, discuss the extension of the list of occupational diseases. One will have to deal with it. But we should make it very clear and clear that the list of occupational diseases must continue to refer to the real problems of the profession and cannot also include those diseases which are hereditary and which are not caused by occupational influences. For this reason, I believe that a reorganisation and extension of the general clause is worth just as much discussion as the consideration that the list of occupational diseases as such should perhaps be extended in a need-oriented manner. In any case, we must always have a discussion at all times. However, one condition is: The medical and scientific conditions must be taken into account, and we must also refer to scientific findings in this discussion. Of course, we also need to see clearly that we need certain restrictions, because we cannot deal with everything about statutory accident insurance. We also need to focus on the fact that we really can only limit ourselves to those diseases which are not yet included in the current list of occupational diseases, but are to be included in this list due to the changed circumstances in the working world.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13936	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e13958	Mr President. High house! I should like to begin by saying that Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch seems to have very little interest in occupational diseases. And I find this already with a certain surprise, because it is precisely it that comes from a party or from the party which is still presumptuous to be the representatives of the workers in Austria. And it is about improving the situation in the workers and employees sector that we are dealing with this matter. I have been here in the National Council since 1990, and already a year later, the opposition – the Greens and the Liberals – began to press for improvements in the field of recognised occupational diseases. Nor is it the first request made by Mr Oellinger in this regard. Of course, we liberals voted in favour of his earlier requests and would do so right now if it were not the first reading. But the following thing must be said, as I mean: It is so typical of this government constellation, which we have in Austria and which is dominated by the Social Democrats that it lasted until July 1998, i.e. several years until minor improvements have been initiated, small repairs have been made, which have been sold in old-fashioned manners as a social grandeur. The knitting pattern is always the same: The government always needs years! First of all, it is demented that such a thing is necessary, and then it takes years to make improvements. The improvements decided this July were really small, and nothing has happened in the areas that seem to me to be important. An area of occupational diseases, which is growing more and more in growth – the subject has already been addressed today – are diseases and damage to the musculoskeletal and support apparatus, especially the so-called disc damage. Mr Oellinger has now stated in his application that an accident insurance company should find out, on the basis of certain scientific findings, that this disease arose exclusively and mainly in the case of a job carried out by the insured person. It is to be said that they are women, such as waitresses, for example, workers in factories, who are affected by them. And there is another problem with women, and I would like to present this here in this context: Again and again, deplorable women come to me who, after several disk operations, can hardly keep up with themselves despite support members and similar ones, but because they have no professional protection because they may also have the "bad" to be married, and therefore there is no immediate emergency for them, they are brought back to the general labour market, although their state of health – and this has been proved by the findings of the labour and social courts – would only allow them to work a maximum of two to three hours a day, and that alternately in sitting, standing and walking attitudes. A suitable job is obviously not to be found for these women. These women cannot therefore acquire retirement periods in this state either. So it would be really useful to recognise, at least in this area, that the damage has been caused by the exercise of the profession and that they have at least a right to an invalidity pension if they are already denied anything else because of the lack of professional protection. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is one point to which I would like to point again. The following is currently happening in Austria: At the expense of volunteering, efforts are being made to create jobs in the field of caregivers, in the area of – which is currently planned – emergency reliefs. These people have a training period of 1,200 hours. In the case of care providers, it is already the case, but there is no professional protection for them! How do you imagine that? – If these rescuers have to carry people up and down stairs for 20 years, they have a broken cross at 50, and then they stand there, can no longer exercise a profession and have no claim to any state support. I think that the Socialists really have to think a little bit about it. And when colleague Dietachmayr said: Yes, there would be something imaginable, but the matter isn't that simple!, then I'm really asking him: If anything is imaginable, why haven't you done it yet?- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14019	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14040	Mr President. High house! In view of the fact that the previous speakers have already expressed themselves quite clearly, I can take a short look. I think it is really important that we put into the relevant law a provision which would be the actual provision in effect, namely the general clause in the actual sense of the word, in a moderate form, so that what we have done so far, namely the taxative listings, then as what it is: as cases in which there is no doubt that there is a occupational disease. We need this general clause because otherwise a "tree change you" game is played with those concerned, in the end only to protect the funds of the responsible social security funds. But that can't be it. I therefore hope that we will soon have an opportunity in the Committee to discuss this request and to reach a decision as soon as possible, hopefully unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14071	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14092	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this request has not only a humanitarian dimension, that this request is not only a social policy necessity, but that it also has very substantial economic dimensions, I would like to briefly explain to you. To this end, I quote a letter from the General Insurance Institute: "In Austria, too, it is increasingly required to include spinal diseases and diseases of tendons in the list of occupational diseases. From our point of view" – the General accident insurance institution – " there are massive concerns about enlargement, as it is to be feared that the related expenditure is not eligible for funding without an increase in contributions." It is therefore important that this should not be financed because it seems impossible to finance. There are only financial criteria used to decide whether a person receives allowances and grants because he was damaged in the work process, was injured in the work process, had to work in the work process under health conditions. That's the real core! That is the background, and that is why this proposal is very likely to have an economic, a national dimension. Remember: The people who have become sick due to working conditions are at the expense of the general public through social security. They finance the treatment of these healthy people by their contributions, they would have changed their jobs and their working conditions. The aim of the proposal is to create pressure for initiatives to make the world of work healthier, more decent and humane, so that the consequences of the disease do not fall to the general public and do not involve the general public in the wallet. It is about working on the roots now. And pressure can only arise if the right to a pension exists, which also documents the incapacity for work due to the loads you have endured in working life. For me, this is also an approach which, beyond the humane, goes far beyond social policy into economics and which in your ears usually finds more contradiction and echo than other lines of argumentation. I would therefore ask you to give this proposal to us in the parliamentary debate in the committees very much importance from this point of view. It is about humanization and also about a more favourable economic design of the working world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14138	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14160	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! In practice, workers are always frustrated: first of all because they do not receive an incapacity pension, second because their disease is not listed as a occupational disease in the ASVG. And there are several other reasons. In individual cases, the possibility should exist, if a disease occurs mainly or only in the case of a job carried out by the insured person and the medical and scientific evidence confirms that it is occupationally dependent on finding a occupational disease. In this sense, I welcome the request made by Mr Öllinger. We liberals will certainly give him his approval. Because in practice it also looks like this: Whether in the construction sector, in industry or in the service sector, occupational diseases that are not included in a catalogue are everywhere and are not taken into account from home. We liberals will certainly be taking part in this proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs and in this sense create a more just situation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14196	There is now a speech by Mr Gaugg. I'll set you up for 4 minutes, too. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14217	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! One of the previous speakers said it was a decline in the number of occupational diseases, but that is only part of the truth. It is true, however, that the old diseases or old occupational diseases are often still in place, which are not in part available to this extent and to this extent. And Mr Donabauer makes it even easier. He says there are EU directives, but we do not implement them. – So wherever guidelines are good for the government parties, they will be implemented, but those who are in the interests of the working population are hesitated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are constantly experiencing that, in individual cases, it is pointed out that more than 50 per cent of the labour force is no longer available, but that 100 per cent of the incapacity for work has to be carried out. Now I ask you: If anyone has a hard drive problem and has ever played tennis in his life, can he never have a professional disease again? – This cannot be in the interests of the legislator. What's added: There are new occupational diseases, i.e. mental diseases, from mumbing to mental pressure, which is practiced on female bankers on the switches and more. These new diseases, these new appearances in the work process, should be taken more into account. The criteria for this should be objective and comprehensible. Next point: For me, a faulty system can be detected during the spa stays. There are people who want to work for decades, for decades, and then go on a spa because of their illness. They're not coming. On the other hand, however, there are employees who have been granted their spa stays "rightfully" – under quotation marks – and they can then use spa stays at regular intervals and are favored. In many decisions, the occupational and social courts, in which I too am a lay judge, refer to the existing laws, namely that they do not have occupational diseases to that extent to decide that one can actually go into early retirement, although they like to do so. I therefore urge the government parties to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14264	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. The first reading has ended, and I agree with Amendment 863/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 7. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1442 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Study Promotion Act 1992 and the Family Compensation Act 1967 (1511 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1441 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Student Home Act (1512 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1159 of the Supplements): Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region (1514 of Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1388 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on scientific and technical cooperation (1515 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the application 811/A of Deputies Dr. Martin Graf and Comrades concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Studies at the Universities (Universitäts-Studengesetz – UniStG), BGBl. I No. 48/1997, as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 38/1998, amended (1351 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14350	We now come to points 7 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting on all agenda items. We are now immediately beginning the debate. I give the floor to Mr Deputies. Dr. Krüger the word. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger is standing next to the freedom series.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where is Minister One?]] It's now clear: Is it in the speech of Dr. Krüger? I called him! [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] Wait a second! [[Call the Freeman: The Minister is not here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did he step back?]] [[President Dr. Neisser inquires about the arrival of Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] I'll just interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14424	I take up the interrupted meeting again and welcome Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Einm. Mr Krüger, I shall now give you the floor. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14468	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would be time for the Minister of State to make a clear statement on science and students. [[Abg. Aumayr: The SPÖ fraction is gone!]] First of all, it is regrettable to note that in the event of such an important debate as the scientific debate and in view of the fact that a minister of the SPÖ Group is sitting here on the Government Bank, there are so few listeners in the SPÖs. I do not know whether this is already a sign of distrust which the SPÖ Group is presenting to its own Minister here if there are only four Members of the SPÖ supporting the Minister on a day that is certainly difficult for him, ladies and gentlemen. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because what is happening now in the field of science is, in a sense, just the prologue for further, partially already announced actions in the transport debate. This is, as it were, just the introduction. Mr. Minister, what is it about? . I have seen that the colleague Ablinger is speaking as a second speaker. – I am interested in one thing, Mr Federal Minister and colleague Ablinger, as a Member of Linz – I would like to tell you the atmosphere of the Committee: We have already submitted a proposal for the Linz University of Industrial Design, now a university, to introduce its own title, namely the "Magister of Design" at the last reform of the study system in Austria. This corresponds to an old desire of Linz University, an old desire of students there, and an old desire of the rector, who, as I have already mentioned in the committee, divides the door to me because of this title. I am astounded, Mr Niederweiser, that, although you express your goodwill to this request, you signal me, in accordance with the honourable Member Koppler, who is also convinced of the need for this title for the Linz Art University or for the students there, the consent to it, but when it comes to the actual introduction of this title, or when it comes to supplementing the agenda for this legislative proposal, against the fact that this request is being dealt with at all, with with with the Lapidar note: After we get to it in time, it's got no hurry! A novelle will stand in the house sometime in the next few months! This is a profoundly unfair process: to be for one thing, but only because it was proposed by the liberal opposition and brought in to be justament against it. Mrs. Ablinger! I'm really curious about what you're going to say about this. But in Linz we will bring to the people that the group that does something for the Linz students of the art university is not the SPÖ, but the FPÖ, and that only the SPÖ is blocked and obstacles are put in the way. That must be said clearly once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is it such a embarrassment for the SPÖ to agree, though it is in the matter? The second – Mr Federal Minister – I would like to repeat my call for colour: I took away from today's edition of the "Kurier" the announcement that the previous parole of Minister Caspar One – I quote literally – "was a uncompromising Njet on the appeal topic of study fees". It is already remarkable, Mr Federal Minister, that you do not say a no or a no, but say a Njet. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] No, Mr Federal Minister, I am far away from this, but I believe that it is difficult for you to completely reject your ideological roots – not to the communist Soviet character, I do not go that far – to the communist thought. You can't completely deny that you sympathize with it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Sympathy to Marxism!]] Federal Minister! I have a prominent witness, Professor Khol, as far as the sympathy of the SPÖ on Communism is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To Marxism!]] Mr. Klubobmann and Professor Khol! It comes from your pen that the SPÖ is, in truth, also advocating the objectives of Communism, but in another way. It's written in your book. I am therefore in the best of society, if I believe that this is your "Njet", Minister of State, but it is also due to the remains of a thought turned to the east. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't understand what you read!]] We know from you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, that today you are dissociating yourself from what you said yesterday. You're known for your "brightness," that's not a secret. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What book do you mean?]] You told me months ago that you will apologize to my colleague Haigermoser for saying that he has committed a 30 million schilling fraud. Although you're wrong, you haven't apologized to this day. We really think of your "brightness" very much, Professor Khol! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also not go as far as you, in your analysis of the SPÖ, want communist conditions in our country. I wouldn't put that under control! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Which book do you mean?]] Now I turn to the Federal Minister. I believe that one of the most important points of discussion in the field of study is the question of study fees. I note that the Minister of Science has abandoned his attitude, his Njet for the introduction of tuition fees, and can now, under certain circumstances, imagine study fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. DDr. Decliner.]] In this context, the merit of Mr Niederwieser, who is now trying to disturb me with intermediate calls, has also been mentioned as a supporter of a way of introducing tuition fees. It is now up to you to confess color. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I am not responsible for the new SPÖ programme, but as far as I can remember, this new SPÖ programme – I believe, Federal Minister, you are also responsible for it – gives a clear rejection to the introduction of study fees, there is a Njet to stay with your language. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You already have to decide what you really want. Will you remodel the party program? But that shouldn't be my concern! But it is the concern of the students in Austria whether, after this attack on the student interests of Austria, they still have to live with the collection of tuition fees. I expect you to make a very clear statement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say something about another point: Very interesting, Mr Minister, were also your comments on the concerns of Linz University regarding the closure or possible restriction of the Institute of Technical Physics. I would also like to ask you to clarify the Arthur-D.-Little plan in all its forms, which, without further delay and lapidar, finds that the students cost too much that the output is too low and not at all qualitatively worked. Federal Minister! How's your attitude? If you also say a Njet, do you also reject these plans, still respect the autonomy of the University, or do you want to go over the concerns of Linz students just as well as colleague Niederwieser, under the assistance of the colleague Ablinger, who unfortunately also goes beyond the legitimate request of the Linz students who have really proved – including colleague Koppler – that they have real disadvantages in the competition by not introducing this title and restricting their title to the magisters of the arts? I would ask you to make a confession.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14621	The next item is Mrs Ablinger's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14642	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr Krüger, I have believed that we would hear at least one word from you about the study promotion laws. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are you also for the introduction of tuition fees?]] No, but I'm still talking about it! . I therefore assume, first of all, that there is the undivided consent of the liberals to this law. It was not worth one word for you in this law that we negotiated in committee. I don't understand! That's the first one. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are several papers on the agenda, Mrs. Colleague! Five templates are on the agenda, of which only one relates to the promotion of studies!]] Secondly, on the question of power. Dec. ind., I can say the following: The Committee has always been prepared to talk about it, and the second point is to point out – this is expressed in many discussions, and if you are honest, you too admit – that serious companies are not looking at the title, but at what people can do. I know many companies that don't even look at whether someone has studied or not, but what someone has done, what experiences someone brings. Again: There is – and that has already been said by Mr Niederwieser – a willingness to talk about whether to introduce this title. But we are – and I tell you that – not convinced that there are, to the extent described by you, disadvantages. We know from many experiences – and this can't be disputed, you know just as I do – that it's crucial what experiences people bring, and not what titles they have. There are people who have studied something that has nothing to do with what they then do in their activity. I'm sorry, but [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Then we can get rid of all the titles!]] No, but that's the reality! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] No, that's not right at all! I know enough people who have studied something that has nothing to do with what they do in their activities. We have insisted on talking about what we believe is the most important thing, and this is the Studienförderungsgesetz and hence the report on the social situation. I have found in the Committee that it has been a very interesting and very good report, a report which has very well reflected the changes in recent years, particularly with regard to the link between study and work. It should be responded to with a part of what we decide today. The figures in question look as follows: While 42.5% of students were not in employment in 1990, five years later only 25 percent were in employment. I think the number from 1997 is about 18 or 19 percent. That is, the number of students who are not at work is changing rapidly. To the same extent, the number of students working regularly increases from 21 percent in 1990 to 34.5% in 1995. Another point in this report on the social situation, which I found very interesting, is the fact that the beginners are getting older and older, which obviously also has to do with the fact that they link work and study, that they decide to work first and then to study first. This trend is on the rise. We are responding to this development with this law today. In my opinion, this regulation of the graduation phase will significantly improve this development, namely the fact that more and more people are working and studying, because they can actually focus on completion in the last year of study, as they receive corresponding funding. In the future, we will be able to reduce the drop-out rates, which are mainly found in those students who study for a long time, but do not create the degree because intensive study in the period of graduation is not possible in addition to professional activity. In so far as I believe that we have taken a good first step today, which is here in the House, except for the Liberal Forum, I believe that there is broad agreement, although we have jointly decided that we will take another step. In this way, as far as part-time studies are concerned, we have undertaken to focus much more on them and to deal with the issues of funding. And there might well be a Russian word: Dawai, Dawai! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14710	The next item is Mrs Gredler's speech. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14732	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would, of course, like to pay tribute to the words of my previous speaker and to speak about the Studienförderungsgesetz and not to shift to other areas. If it agrees that we should concentrate on the agenda, I am very happy to do so. What is the meaning of this law? – Mr Lukesch, you presented it properly today in a press release, and I would like to congratulate you on this. The purpose of this law is to re-evaluate part of the 1997 savings package. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Read on!]] That is, I think, a correct statement! You repair what you broke in principle: In 1997, the federal government had a share of around 450 million schillings over the savings packages. Through the complete removal of school travel aid and school-free trips, the state achieved a savings of 530 million schilling. An intensification in the regulation for children's retirement and maintenance deposits resulted in a saving volume of 160 million schilling. Now, on the other hand, we have an expansion of 200 million schillings. I can only say: High time! I don't mind if you're really promoting. I have nothing against it at all! But to say and to say that this would be a progress towards a state which you yourself have brought about, namely that the student situation has been worse lately, I really think it is a presumption. At the end of the day, a reform in the form of a flattering carpet does not result in a persertic carpet. That's what I criticize! They do not put individual needs in the foreground, but they put a grid in the foreground in which the student or the student has to press in. That's what we criticize! We have nothing against progress, but we do not believe that when we address three points in the whole concept, we have achieved a great deal. We'd rather make it different. There is no flexibility. At the secondary income borders, it is so that when you earn a schilling more than the limit provides, you fall through the rust. There is no grinding, no flexibility possible. In the course of the degree scholarships, which are a very good measure in the intention, the conditions are such that you have to leave your working life completely, which means that you have to quit. I don't think that's a sensible way of doing this. There is no room for individual arrangements with your employer, for example, that you only work one day a week and use a reduced fee for this. This would really meet the needs of students, but what we are now planning to do, namely to allow only either-or-or-solutions, is really not liberal, and that is what we owe to you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Liberal would be if the students were to bring complaints against the parents!]] You all want to shave over a comb, Mr. Lukesch. It doesn't work anymore! People have become more individual in terms of their needs. But you don't want to respect that. I think you should really take this seriously. If you're talking about a "fever", I'll give you a hand. You have to get rid of it, because the situation of students is really no longer such that you can speak of permeability. The Social Report clearly shows that fewer students who are children of parents of lower levels of income than before come to universities. We think that this is also very unfortunate. It is therefore useful to focus on increasing permeability again. But as it is now done, it is not possible. There are no annual accounts – a claim that has been massively raised by the ÖH. You yourself say it would be valuable for a scheme of 80 000 plus 50,000. Why, please, don't you do that? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Because Mrs. Sozialminister has blocked this!]] Why do you leave the boundaries the way they are now? Why do the limits in age leave as they are now? – 30 years; and if you can prove anything, you will be promoted up to the age of 35. What's lifelong learning for you? That's not possible in the system you've got. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Life must stay for life!]] There is no word about adult education in the whole law. These are the points we want. Mr Ettl has today issued a press release on lifelong learning. Federal Minister! Please take this to heart, even if you think this is very funny. At the income limit you have, you have no problem at all to promote anyone in the family. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You wouldn't laugh anymore if you just deserve a minimum of that. Then you'd probably miss the laughter or laughter of your children. That's what we're starting to do. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You don't deserve that bad either!]] I am not saying that I think it is a step forward that now, for example, times of civil and present service are also taken into account. I also think it is a step forward to enable travel and language scholarships. I think it is a step forward to make the promotion of disabled students more flexible, although I must say that this is the case because you only have to adopt a regulation on handling. This means that these disabled students are in principle in the hands of the respective ministers. I do not think this is a successful measure, although I would like to confirm to you that there has been at least one progress. In short, to the Student Home Act: We shall vote in favour of this. We consider the short-term award of homes to be an advantage. We believe that the different provisions concerning notice of termination are an advantage. We believe that social need takes precedence over the award of other students. In terms of transparency, that annual accounts are to be made by economic trustees for larger units – starting from 500 places – we also consider progress. What else I'd like to create: My colleague spoke about Linz, and I would like to make a different point there. There is a student home in Linz where with the help of the keys of students who have lived there, they have been registered at how much time they have come home. This has been logged, and by means of camera monitoring it has been precisely controlled which movements are happening on the courses, that is, who goes into which rooms, who comes out when and so on. On the one hand, it can be said that some students in student homes have an increased need for protection. I understand that, and perhaps you can set up your own floor for people who are particularly vulnerable or who require special protection for themselves. But that you carry out general surveillance, so that the porter knows exactly where to go, how much time that happens, and who is in which room for how long, I really don't think that's a very nice thing. The Linzers have already done this for a long time. It was strangled to the right and to the left to consider how to end this situation. I hope that has happened in the meantime. But I think it is a strange process of a student home operator that he develops such control wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14832	I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Lukesch. Voluntary speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e14854	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Krüger! First of all, let me say that it is very strange if you use 90 percent of your time, in the face of a significant innovation of the Studienförderungsgesetz, to use the "Mag. Dec. ind." To apply accordingly in Linz, and then in 10 percent of the time talk about the possible change in the position of the Federal Minister of Education for study contributions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: But that's not your business!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why don't you talk about it?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I'll show you how liars can have short legs. You said today that the FPÖ rejected the funding of studies by way of fees. You are not available for this. But there's this saying from the short legs that I don't apply to you now. However, I will show you how sometimes it can be achieved very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler has rightly said that this study promotion law has its origin in itself on a mission from this House, namely to examine the social situation of students: on the one hand, as regards the impact of the savings package on students and, on the other, on the other, on the area in which we see that studying and working has actually become a relatively common concept of life for students, in order to check whether our funding instruments are in line with these new designs of life or not. I think in the first area, the study promotion law gives a very good answer to the question of the need for the necessary savings measures. It has now been adopted in a completely different way, Mrs Gredler, additional resources allocated to the efficient students, the speedy students, the successful students of those classes of income who could not otherwise afford to study with parental income. This targeted allocation of additional funds is based on the consent of the Austrian People's Party. That was an important step. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have also set a whole series of new accents here, which I welcome. Not only has it succeeded in adapting to the needs of our students, but it is also about extending the circle of legitimate referees, especially those of the middle class, which is at least about 10 percent raised. I also think that a number of other measures that have already been mentioned are very important. We should gain experience in the promotion of studies. Mrs Gredler, you are right, there can be two things: Either this measure is too rigid, so too few can make use of it – then it would have missed its goal. Or she's too generous. This could also be a surprise, and it could be a surprise by an adjustment behaviour of the working students. It is therefore remarkable that we have introduced a "sunset" legislation here and want to observe how it develops in order to be able to correct it accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: "Evaluating" means that!]] This is a new element of study promotion, and it is an important element of study funding – no question! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A number of things have been achieved with the funding of studies. But Mrs Ablinger has also said that some things have failed. I regret this and am disappointed by the bureaucratic and, in fact, the life-time limitation of earnability, according to which no more than 3 830 S per month may be earned next to the scholarship. This is bureaucracy-intensive, this is abusive. In fact, it is not to be seen why students don't even come in one month when work is there for them – whether it's an opportunity work or also a work in a more qualified area, for example, if there is work in technical offices – and if they do so within the framework of a flat-rate payment amount at a flat-rate level. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am clear – and I am quite aware that the implementation of this measure has consequences for other areas of labour and social rights. But with some good will, with some determination and understanding of the Minister for Social Affairs, this should have actually been successful in the use of the Minister of State One and, of course, in the massive support of the Minister of Family Bartenstein. Therefore, the ÖVP, together with colleagues from Niederwieser, will submit a resolution to close this gap in the funding of studies, which is simply not fair to student reality, by the middle of the coming year. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Why not?]] In any case, this is the intention of the scientific spokespersons of SPÖ and ÖVP. I tell you – and I say this to the young people at the gallery: We will be very careful to see if that really is – you have said "Dawai! Dawai!", okay – persecuted and depicted. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is a real threat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What do you have against Linz, Mr. Colleague?]] [[Further calls.]] Now to you, Mr Krüger. You said: Study funding on study contributions is not in question; this is not the case for FPÖ. - You don't know your own papers. I have the "Free Arguments" here. There is something like a free science policy, and our third President, Willi Brauneder, writes about the introduction of study fees: Not at present; it should improve the conditions. However, the following may apply to the future: Under state regulations, the university can determine whether it will collect contributions from the students. [[Abg. Scheibner: Take note that our Members have their own opinions!]] However, the funds should remain in the autonomous field, be used for teaching and so on. The level of the contributions determines the individual university in a differentiated way, i.e. autonomously. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't be stupid! Not a stupid thing!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you not have your own opinion?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I guess Brauneder's to be credited to you, isn't he?]] In this context, to say that FPÖ is against the introduction of student co-financing in the financing of studies, I simply think that it is double pay. This may not explain the very introduction to the parliamentary court. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But I can also say to the Minister of State: I do not think it useful and beneficial – even in exceptional cases, to demand study contributions ultimately on the basis of parental benefits, in order to carry out a second redistribution with these funds. There should be much better, if you discuss it, from the earnings of the studies for the student – that is, from his later income – you should seek a financing opportunity. I can recognize a certain rethinking on the one plan, whose position I do not share, anyway. All in all, however, I believe that this amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz is to be welcomed. The right of opportunity in Austria will be strengthened, it will be preserved. I can assure everyone that this money is well established: We will need well-trained young academics in the international competition in the future more than ever!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15030	Mr Schöggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). A voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15051	Mr President. Mr. Minister! If Mr. Minister I hope that Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the interests of the students, will introduce general tuition fees in the near future or in the shortest time, and that we will be able to avoid these tuition fees in the interests of the students. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You said they were unconstitutional!]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to deal with two international agreements, which we consider necessary. This is, on the one hand, the agreement on the recognition of qualifications in the European region. For all those who have not read this agreement – that they have not done so – it is understandable, for it is almost unreadable – in short, the Quintessence thereof: It states that the diversification of training routes in the European region is moving rapidly, particularly in the Eastern countries; that the training routes are no longer comparable, that new and non-university training routes are constantly being developed and that it is impossible to compare qualifications easily. Nevertheless, this Convention imposes an obligation to make the various systems comparable, and in the case of non-recognition, the burden of proof lies with the recognition body. This will result in a wealth of long procedures, which will lead to a bloating of bureaucracy, and it will not be in the interests of applicants in particular. However, it must be pointed out – and it is already mentioned in this paper – that recognition of qualifications should be given particularly generous and flexible, even if the evidence for studies can only be provided incompletely by applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, new bodies must be set up, such as an information centre, and recognition authorities must be accredited. This is, in turn, a bloating of the bureaucracy with very little benefit for the students. On the one hand, the recognition of the studies cannot prevent access to universities, on the other hand, the application of Numerus clausus and other restrictive measures is quite permissible. We therefore see very little substance in this entire multilateral treaty, especially because the explanations add that the effect of the recognition rules on the admission to certain professional activities, if at all, can only be indirect. The text then states that higher education can also take the following forms: Opinion on general employment. So there are contradictions. We think this agreement is essential, especially because it contains a large number of canned provisions. I agree that this agreement is essential, that it will cost money, that it will bring bureaucracy and will therefore be rejected by us for so long, as long as it remains that foreign Austrians who have acquired their tuition in other EU countries cannot study in Austria. The second agreement – the agreement between Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on scientific and technical cooperation – must be said that we liberals support any type of scientific cooperation with our neighbours. We are convinced that good neighbourly relations should be maintained and maintained, in particular, between the universities of Graz and Liège. On the other hand, we do not consider the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements – and in this case it is not necessary because of the Lapidar formulations of an Alibi agreement. We also support the project-related cooperation between Austria and the Slovenian researchers, but we do not think that this agreement is necessary. Finally, I would like to deal with the student representatives at the colleges. The students are not yet covered by the student representations. However, we believe that the model of the minority programme of the compulsory membership ÖH is not suitable for such a representation, and therefore make the proposal that the higher education programmes should elect their own representatives and their alternates. These would, according to the model of the rectors' conference, form an overall representation of the higher education students in order to be able to solve problems related to vocational education across the whole of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is not an item on the agenda! That's out there!]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mr Graf and Dr Krüger. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mr President! On the matter!]] - You don't always talk about it either. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Minister! In conclusion: Today's "Kurier" report certainly does not contribute to the calming of students. I also hope that you will clearly and publicly declare yourself here on the subject of tuition fees. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15134	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15159	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! The Studienförderungsgesetz is for me a small drop on the hot stone. This hot stone is called "Sparpackage 1" and "Sparpackage 2". These two measures, within the meaning of the Maastricht criteria and budgetary consolidation, were at the expense of the students, and the Studienförderungsgesetz wants to compensate for this. This bit is positive, but on the other hand there are very massive restrictions. It was not for nothing in an empirical study of mag. Mario Steiner of the IHS found: "After a certain degree of social inequality can be identified for the period from 1991 to 1993, the proportion of parents of initial students with only medium education decreased by more than 3.5 percent, the same proportion of those with higher education between two years, 1993 and 1995. From the winter semester 1995/96 to the winter semester 1997/98, a further, once again accelerated decrease of 4.3 per cent can be recorded, thus a shift towards our most encouraging parents whose parents have only medium-sized education." – End of the quote. This very differentiated representation of the misunderstanding simply means: Those whose parents do not earn enough or whose parents are below the average have massive restrictions on their studies and are more or less hampered by higher education. – That was the result of the savings packages, and you are now trying to compensate for this result. But this compensation is minimal and half-hearted, and that is why we will reject this Studienförderungsgesetz, because this compensation is too small for us and does not make that what has been caused by the savings packages. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also, there is the pressure for many students to work during their studies, and there are people who have to study longer because they work side by side. On average, 20 to 25 percent of students have only 1 000 s of freely available income, and that is far below any minimum of existence, that is unworthy! That is why we believe that this law on the promotion of studies does not entitle anything that has been taken into account on the other hand. The second aspect we want to discuss is the issue of voting rights in higher education. Here we see some progress. Originally, the draft really had the function of a milestone and was a constructive contribution to the general extension of passive voting rights to all foreigners. But then there were discussions, and as a result two classes were created: the foreigners in the EEA area and the foreigners outside the EEA area. – This is indisputable for us, because we believe that foreigners, no matter what area they come from, should have the right to vote passively at the universities. They're supposed to be elected. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] We see in it an essential human right, which is also to be anchored in university. We therefore call for a step to be taken in this direction and for the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be true democracy at the university for us: if not a two-class election, but a truly uniform right to vote would prevail. Against this background, our vote on this major item on the agenda will be very differentiated: We will reject the Studienförderungsgesetz and the High School Act, and some of the other areas will be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15247	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15268	Mr President. High house! Allow me to say a few sentences about this package of law today. For me, there are a few things that are surprising, not least what Mrs Moser has just done. It believes that the study on the social situation of students has to take account of the consequences. This was also widely accepted in the Committee's deliberations. It is necessary to note that the social situation of origin, the situation of life, the family situation and the age of the students are, as a whole, different than before, and it is now necessary to draw the relevant conclusions. We are therefore presenting to you today a draft of the Studienförderungsgesetz, which aims to create improvements in this area. The Greens say that they do not agree because there are improvements, but too few. – Mrs Moser! I think that if we were going in the right direction, you could have agreed, and the students would probably have thanked you. As an opposition group, you say that you would like to have much more, and I understand well, because I would like to have more, I can assure you. But I mean, it's not what we want, but what we can do for the students today. And we are taking a concrete step towards improvement today! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! Let me make two comments on the revision of the Austrian high school law. – On the one hand, it has been critically noted – and I share the view in this respect at least in part – that the question of the representation of university students has not yet been resolved and that something has to be done. High house! I am convinced that I do not wish to solve this question without referring to the people concerned. Therefore, for some time now, I have been looking for a discussion with the student representatives at the various high-school courses and invited them to meet together to find together – above all together – about how an appropriate organisation of their representation could be designed. I would like to stress once again: I think it is useful, useful and essential that we involve those concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How have the representatives of the technical colleges been elected? - Not at all! You're not legitimate!]] In addition, there have been a number of contacts between these students and representatives of the Austrian University School with the aim of finding a common arrangement. If these discussions are over, we will make a proposal to that effect. But please understand that I do not want to prejudicate this process. For it would indeed be a little strange if I, as the head of the department, made a proposal, as I imagine my counterparts have to look forward to. The clarification of these questions should, however, be left to those concerned, seeking the necessary patience and understanding. Second point: The question of voting rights to the ÖH has already been raised, and I share the criticism expressed. I also think that we do not go a good way if we create a new differentiation between such and such non-Austrians and non-Austrians. We would have been well advised to go a uniform way, especially considering that the number of people we are now excluding is about 7 000. This is, in relation to 220 000 students, ridiculously little and cannot be justified by the concern for the emergence of any particular lists. [[Abg. Dr Graf: This is the subject of the next item on the agenda!]] I think that if we stand up for the internationalisation of science and research – and we do so, as far as I see it, together – we should also act to ensure that all those who come to us to study here are eligible for election. Those who don't want to vote don't have to choose! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Krüger is not here, but he has asked a number of questions. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If he knew you were already talking about the ÖH, he would certainly be here!]] I would ask you to give him the answers. First of all, he raised the question as to how the future of Linz University and, in particular, the scientific and technical disciplines of this university are to be ordered. – Honourable Members of the Liberals! You know better than I do, or at least as well as I do, because I have already explained it to you, but I can explain it to you again: We agreed with the university representatives last year that universities should be able to engage in appropriate negotiations in the exercise of their autonomy in order, where appropriate, to take priority education at universities by exchanging certain capacities between universities, in accordance with a procedure established and supported by an external consultant's opinion. The external consulting firm Arthur D. Little has actually done such a study, which refers exclusively to the size of the institutes and to the costs of the institutes per graduate. Now you can discuss whether this is a sensible method. If you say that at least this is not an appropriate measure to be set up alone, then you will have my full approval. But that's not the problem at all. Rather, it is a question of the universities themselves wanting to have an appropriate opinion. That's what they've got now. As a result, it is true that graduates at the course of science in Linz are relatively expensive per capita. However, no one has stated in the first place that it is primarily a question of saving costs or making costs per capita a criterion. What it is all about is to negotiate reasonable priorities between universities, and as universities themselves are able to recognize that the graduates of the Linz course of science have a high degree, I do not assume that these courses will be abandoned. High house! I think we should be concerned about the concerns that seem to be obvious, and not necessarily those that we would like to have, so that we can get a discussion out of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Krüger made use of me recently, or relatively early, in his speech, for the fact that the "Kurier" reported that I would have said something, namely, to introduce study fees, 'njet'. - High house! I would like to acknowledge that we are to attract Austrians more and more to study foreign languages. "Njet" is, as far as I know, a Russian word, and, on the contrary, speak nothing at all. The fact is, however, that, despite your view that my extreme background would suggest this, I do not speak Albanian or Russian, but only French and English, and that this is not a quote from the "Kurier", but an interpretation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's quite a lot!]] . I would also ask Mr Krüger to judge. Leave In conclusion, I should like to say a little more clearly on the subject of tuition fees. High house! I am extremely happy that almost all the political groups have today made a clear commitment to study fees. I am also pleased because the only group which has been a truly clear position on this issue for some time now is SPÖ. I am pleased to be active in this party, and I stand firm for their programme that I have decided to do. I would just like to point out that I also said in the paper quoted by the 'Kurier' that I consider study fees to be absolutely inappropriate in order to take over funding even a significant part of the studies. – This is my position, and I stand for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look closely, you will find yourself in the "Kurier" – correctly quoted – also that I have said: There is only one condition where I would be willing to discuss it if I were forced to discuss these questions. – Consider It's not an offer, because it's not an offer! I think it is wrong to introduce tuition fees, I think it is necessary to introduce them, and if my group's opinion is enforced, no tuition fees will be introduced either. That is the statement to be met! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to Mr Lukesch that it would be more appropriate not to finance tuition fees in the way that students pay them at the expense of their parents, but that the graduates should pay them afterwards on the basis of the income later achieved, I would like to say: This is a nice discussion, Mr deputies, but it is not marked by a particular administrative economy either. Because whether the well-earners today or the well-earners tomorrow finance this, is quite meaty. It is crucial that those who have the necessary resources help to ensure that there are reasonable study opportunities that are open to use in order to exploit the potentials of our people and those who come to us. Those who have the money to pay for it should do the same. That's my opinion!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15384	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15408	Spoštovani gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear friends! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Visoki Dom" is called "Hohes Haus"!]] "Visoki Dom" means "Hohes Haus"! In this sense, I have specifically thought of Mr Khol, who will listen to my remarks in the first row. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not so much about whether we can speak some pieces of Russian or some pieces of French or English. Rather, it is important that we negotiate a matter which should at least stimulate student mobility in approaches. However, if you read the matter carefully, then there is no longer the satisfaction that the headline suggests at first: Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications. In fact, for those ladies and gentlemen who have acquired skills abroad, a very thorny path is still to be taken, because the so-called nostrifications usually go for years, are often very mischievous, not always quite – I want to say so – transparent and the results are not always fully justified. Minister! Overall, it would probably be necessary to take a different path at all, namely to jointly verify the educational institutions in Europe and to establish a parallel school system, so that, if, for example, one has completed a certain degree of higher education and training in Finland or has reached a degree, one has the opportunity to enter another State accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That would be a completely different, new approach. That means: We need to take the bureaucracy away from the citizen. Formalities are to be done within the framework of the bureaucracy itself, and we should finally be able to offer a good European education system – in all its colours, of course. That would be a rewarding task, that would be something new once! If you read this agreement – in this point I have to give a previous speaker the right of the liberals – then you are, as it were, illiterate and have to learn to read again. This illiteracy, which we always note in some citizens, often pleases us when we are quite honest! In this convention a lot has been packed, one could say that one feels right how the computer worked, so much so: This paragraph remains, it fits in, it only has to be reworded a bit. The Liberal Forum will be the subject of this agreement by Lisboa of 17. In July 1998, as a step towards mobility, agreed. However, it has remained a framework agreement, and that is why you always have a little abdominal pain. The good will is present, but the act is not coming. It would therefore be very important to create European criteria and then to have the bureaucrats disputed with one another, which qualification is who, instead of imposing everything on the citizen. I don't know if anyone of you has already had to do such a nostriftation procedure. This requires a lot of papers and a great amount of time. In addition, special information has to be collected – as you can see. As if one were unable to describe his school authentically, then, instead of lengthy procedures, to get from the respective government the necessary stamp as a confirmation, the verification, that a certain degree has been completed, which is recognized and – perhaps with small additions – fits into the system two or three additional examinations. One always has the impression that this is a method of keeping the labour market "Austrian" in the intellectual field, rather than mixing it with entirely new scientists. Minister! This concerns not only your place of business, but also the Minister of the Interior, but I think it would be time to question these completely pointless, complicated procedures for foreign students once. You have to imagine how complicated it is to be introduced to a foreign authority and present papers every year! Why is one not able to issue a visa for the average duration of the study with the obligation to report each year and submit the registration note and an inscription certificate? - That's what it would have done. Because how's it going now? – In autumn the visa is sought, in February the student gets it, in June he drives home, and his visa has expired. In autumn he has to apply again because he is not allowed to join with a tourist visa. - That's crazy! I want to get to know the bureaucrats who invented this so I can tell him: Now you have to let the whole process go about you yourself, which you have complicated here! Because if he's himself affected, he'll change everything right away. For example, there are students from neighbouring countries in Austria who live half here and half at home. As we know, these too must prove a savings account of 70 000 s. Minister! Maybe I'll tell you a federal secret or a student secret now: There are a few savings books with a balance of 75 000 s, and this alternates today the one, tomorrow another, and the next one tomorrow. – That’s how a little listener avenges himself for such nonsense! Because that doesn't make sense because these students are going home anyway. And there is also a parental obligation in Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, and parents are no worse than here: They ensure the maintenance of their sons or daughters who study with us. Especially as regards neighbouring countries, the potential new EU countries, one should be generous and reasonable in this respect, also in the interest of quality at our universities. Because we need new scientists and this new spirit of opening. And "Opening" should apply not only to me, but also to others! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A few more words about the Treaty between Austria and Slovenia: I welcome him, but this too is only a framework agreement. If this helps to make the exchange that is already in operation even better, then I say yes to this agreement. It helps the bureaucrats in Slovenia and Austria to cooperate a little easier. It must be noted, however, that the individual educational institutions did not need this agreement directly, because they cooperate well anyway, especially the Slavists in Vienna and Graz cooperate very well, and there are excellent technical advices such as from the Institute Jožef Stefan of the University of Ljubljana, also for Austrian companies. Mr. Research Minister! We are about to find a very reasonable solution to another thing that I would otherwise have proposed to you. Allow me to do this - that is, on the matter of the activity of the Historical Commission - only one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that tomorrow I will be able to make a good request, and I also hope that you will agree with what I mean by all the political groups. It is about the historians' commission fearing that their archivals will be lost. Read today's "Kurier"! I could provide you with a few more documents, but I do not want to be unfair now that you are only part of the Federal Government. However, tomorrow we will appeal to the entire Federal Government – I hope with the power of the whole House – to prevent the destruction of files today or in these hours and in the next days that we need to work out our history. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very necessary that the appeal is made, that the Federal Government should take precautions to ensure that all archives, the ecclesial archives, the national archives and the private archives are accessible, and that it is possible to access the documents, especially where public money has been spent on archiving. It may at first sight be a rather harmless matter. But when I think of the fragmentation of old documents in Switzerland, as a learned Austrian and practicing Carinthian, I have a certain fear that some under the title "old material" could disappear somewhere. – Help me save the material, for us, for our descendants, but also specifically for the Historic Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15462	Mr Rada is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15483	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the Studienförderungsgesetz, because I am deeply convinced that it has become a good law for the benefit of the students. If some previous speakers have negatively polemized and the regulations taken have been presented as repair measures, I would like to say: I still prefer repairs than there are no repairs at all! If we have learned anything from some of these opposition speakers about everything else, but nothing about the Studienförderungsgesetz, then this may be an admission that a really good adaptation was made. As an example, I would just like to highlight the "Njet" of our Federal Minister. In this context, I would like to entitle colleague Ablinger to a hundred percent: A chairperson of the Science Committee could have brought more substance into the debate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now some thoughts about the content: I very much welcome the fact that facilitation has been provided for the working students. One can have a different view of why students are employed: because they actually need it because of their social environment or because they use this professional activity to gain experience in order to be able to enter the labour market more easily later, or because of the fact – and this has already been criticized today – that the beginners are getting older and older. The answer to this question is quite simple: Society has changed. Once people have stayed with their learned profession, they are ready to continue their education today. Lifelong learning is no longer a keyword, but is actually implemented. In addition, these young people are finally measured by what they can show in actual ability, and not just by what conclusion they have. I welcome the establishment of professional scholarships, because I know from my own experience that it is not quite easy for a student to complete within a certain period of time. We will see in the future, Mr Lukesch, a hundred percent right, how this process of support and support will prove itself. However, I also understand the demand of students who would prefer to have a conversion of the annual earnings. Because sometimes it is a problem to get out of an economic project again in order not to lose the study aid or the support. And our young graduates will be measured precisely in their participation in such projects! Finally, on the foreign scholarships: These too mean tremendous progress. For we all expect our young people not only to know themselves in Europe and in the world, but also to know the respective sciences and practices very well. All in all, I believe that all that will be decided in today's science block is an overall good and round thing for our students and, subsequently, for the performance of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15535	Mr Dr. Count. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15557	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! In advance, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Minister, you may now ask yourself what this request has to do with the present proposals. I say it to you as well, because perhaps not everyone here is aware. It is also amended with item 7 of the Family Allowance Act, because – and I say so – a privilege is created here by the Coalition, including for officials, in this case chamber officials at the Austrian high school. In the future, if they take up a job, they will be granted family allowances for two years. I really think this is extremely wrong in today's time, because in reality it is chamber functionaries. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Which chamber does a student belong to?]] The fact that adult chamber officials are to receive family allowances in the future must be broken down on the tongue. [[Abg. May. Worm: Which chamber? What chamber?]] In return, however, the coalition has forgotten – the Austrian high school, and this is a public law body and therefore essentially a chamber, if you do not know – those apprentices – and here I remind you of the promise of German Chancellor climate that each apprentice will receive an apprenticeship – which will not receive a training place which will be located in foundations or other training sites, in the future also to grant family support or travel aid. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Deputies, what chamber does a student belong to?]] I mention this because it fits this system and so that one can see the imbalance: On the one hand, one creates privileges for ÖH-functionaries, and on the other hand one is negligent and fails to give the apprentices the right to be actually given to them. You can fix this again now – I have just heard that time can also be used here to fix mistakes that you have made, or to repair failures. This is an occasion for such a repair, and we invite you to agree to it so that the apprentices can also experience justice in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One more point, Minister: As far as tuition fees are concerned, as always – you have to leave it – you have moved out of the affair. It was then thrown around with nebula grenades in further succession. It is said that the liberals are not talking about the applications et cetera. Mr Minister, I would like to remind you that you have also referred to the ÖH Act, although it is not for the debate now, but only at the next item on the agenda. That's where I come to speak separately. Her first speaker, Mrs Collaborative Derivatives – Ablinger – with our colleague Krüger, makes a bill here, which in fact immediately disproves them themselves: [[Call the SPÖ:Who? Ablinger!]] She is referring to the student report, which is not on the agenda either! It was in the committee that she slept. That basically means: If this criticism comes already, please also a little self-criticism, because then everyone spoke by the subject. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I do not want to let you go of it, because it is already on the debate. You cannot deny your Marxist ideological training. Because if, on the one hand, you take the view that there should be no tuition fees, and then, as the last slug you say, you can imagine, however, that the rich should pay and the poor get something – you did not say that you have left this slug – then that is also the wrong way. [[Federal Minister Dr. Eins: Tax, yes! Taxes!]] Because then you have entered through the back door, which you leave open here in the high house, and are already again for university fees. You have to meet a need for explanation here again, because that is not the way to stop it. You can't go over with the last loop and really open a door again. [[Abg. DDr. Say ye what ye will.]] Mr Niederwieser knows exactly what I am talking about. [[Abg. DDr. Say ye what ye will.]] They are also an exponent of tuition fees. [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: Now the SPÖ is not at the speaker's desk! Tell me what you want!]] I have nothing against it. The debate is good, and, Mr Minister, I was actually quite glad that you said that we should discuss redistribution. If the redistribution works in such a way that the Austrian universities are redistributed from the inconsistencies to the volunteers, then we will find a dialogue between them. For there is nothing else but to create an incentive to honour such benefits, also at the university, so that it does not have to be so much that it is necessary to leave behind doors open again and that the students must be given opportunities to do so, which they then have to tax again et cetera. [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: Involuntary people do not get a scholarship anyway!]] It's been around in this area for a long time. Minister! You are really invited to take a clear position. What do you really mean you should pay with "reichs"? Who's rich in your eyes? Declare: Who's rich? Do you think rich parents? And when does "rich" start? – I want to know all that the students are interested in. Does your wealth begin net at 15 000 s, or where does it begin? Who will have to pay in the future, and who will get something? – This interests the study population to the highest extent and not whether any of the officials receive a privilege and receive a family allowance for another two years longer, just because they have such a great office, which may be used only as a political career springboard. [[Abg. May. Worm: Democracy costs something!]] Minister! You need explanation here, and I ask you to comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15777	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15801	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're for tuition fees too, aren't you?]] I am very surprised to see which verve is being held here by the entire study and university debate, so that I have a great deal of difficulty in developing a subject that is equally debated and in drawing up the position of the ÖVP. I do not want to put this into a logically necessary context with the promotion of studies, but this debate is at least at the same time, namely the Bakkalaureat. From the ministry itself, in particular from the head of the section for higher education, it is clear that we should necessarily be subject to the threat of American education or be guided by it. I think that we are wrong when we do that, and I can give Anneliese Rohner the right of the "Presse" when she says from her immediate knowledge of American education and studies that the average colleges and universities need the first three years to bring the students to, for example, Austrian Matura level. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: We already have that!]] We already have the Matura level, exactly. That's what we're going to do. We have held a four-year debate in the country on university law and, for good reasons, turned away from the three-year cultural studies and said: There is no specific professional target for these shortened studies. Due to the absence of a combination obligation and the insufficient expression of science orientation, this cannot be understood as a study for young people. I also think that we are right if we are European-oriented, because we are not engaged in the fiction of a total homogenisation of the system, but much more of what we are doing today, namely to recognize studies, to exchange, to respect and so on. It is therefore about generosity in recognition policy. [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: And as a special feature: Latin!]] I think it's important not to do "student time cosmetics" or "student statistics" or anything else and to put a title on the breakers. It doesn't make sense. I therefore believe that the Bakkalaureat makes sense only if there is a defined and specific study and professional goal and if there is understanding about it. It should be used in accordance with the American system's orientation, in so far as it is much more necessary to develop the middle and higher education system. To build the bridge to the Studienförderungsgesetz: I think it is a step forward to be able to say that, under the last Structural Adjustment Act, we have taken back some 1 billion shillings of benefits and now a more just one, though not yet – here we have to ask with Platon: what is justice? – found an absolutely just way. In what way is this path that we are taking today not quite fair? – On the one hand, there is no equal treatment of students who do so in an independent way, and those in whom this is done in the context of self-employment. Furthermore, there is no annual calculation yet, but it is necessary because, in fact, I have to give Mr Rada, one of my previous speakers, the project orientation requires a different approach to time. This is for me the key to another aspect, namely that of professional activity itself: How does this question even take place in the perception of the students? . The report did not show that the age of study entry has increased dramatically. I have, on the other hand, taken reports that university leave is a longer one, so that this question has to be solved differently. I think that I would like to express my support for this report. Live Practitioners: Studying will in a way be a form of life. That is what I mean with all the charm and all the sympathy for this form of life, because it then goes into lifelong learning, Mrs Gredler, or immerses itself with this lifelong learning and we cannot, so to speak, create the lifelong scholarship for it. If there is a right way, then I think we are going to do this with the promotion of professionals, with the equivalent of income of about 15 000 S for the start-up or for the completion of studies after a certain employment – or the "double life" between acquisition and study. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: Double life!]] Many of us in this hall, including me, have been such double-life students, and many of us would have done more with such a scholarship at that time to take time for the diploma thesis or for the dissertation. We're on the right track – that's almost a record, but in this case it's right, just like the Student Home Act. I think that this novel of the other way of life is also better in keeping with the increased mobility of students. Also the possibility of having the houses by being able to conclude host contracts is a good way to continue increasing the number of students to the extent that the students themselves wish. The decline in the number of legal science students makes sense when I think of the anchorage in professional life. So, basically, we are really oriented. We talk about the ÖH law when it is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15877	Furthermore, Mr Mag. Mag. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15906	Mr President. Minister! High house! Regularly, in the scientific debates, such as the monster of Loch Ness, the question of tuition fees arises, even if it has no specific subject matter. Therefore, Mr Minister, thank you very much for the clear statement on study fees, regardless of the highly interesting Marxism exegesis of colleagues Graf: [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mr. colleague, now she has a name: The "One Plan" she is now called!]] [[The cheerfulness of the speaker as well as of the abg. Schwarzenberger]] There will be no tuition fees. They are budgetaryly irrelevant if they do not exceed a certain level, and they are extremely problematic in terms of distribution policy. I wonder a little about the disapproval of the Greens to the Studienförderungsgesetz. It is totally incomprehensible for me to support in-depth measures which have certainly been taken in the course of the savings package with the Studienförderungsgesetz, because this law of funding for studies brings a whole series of improvements, apart from the figures: In 1997, study funding in Austria amounted to 1.49 billion schilling, in 1998 1.63 billion schilling, and now we have reached about 1.84 billion schilling – a significant increase alone in the last two years. 200 million schilling was the only increase in last year, with costs being broken down as follows: 107 million for the increase in aid, 30 million for the expansion of the population and 36 million for the creation of degree grants. So there are a number of improvements. I am particularly pleased that students who have graduated from a university of higher education and begin a doctorate study will in the future benefit from the study aid and that there will also be a number of improvements for the disabled: in view of the increased financial effort they normally have to bear, which is why they often have to expect a longer duration of study, by § 19 para. 3 and 4 by remedialising students who are more than 50 percent disabled, are entitled to a longer reference period for the study aid and, secondly, by means of a regulation, ministers can extend the reference period for scholarships even by two semesters per period of study. It is also gratifying to create the degree programme provided for in § 52b, according to which 15 000 S, i.e. at least 180 000 S per year, are distributed every month, provided that one is almost finished with one's studies and only has about 20 semesters per week to complete, or is at the beginning of the diploma thesis. This is intended for students who have worked in the last four years, i.e. for work students. It is also a pleasure for the foreign scholarships, as it is now possible to fund 20 months for 20 months instead of 10 months, up to an amount of 8,000 s per month, with the Minister deciding by regulation what amounts are to be allocated to that country. Finally, I would like to point out the general increase in the maximum study aid by around 10 per cent, which is now 8 330 s per month – almost 100 000 s per year. This means that a number of improvements are included in this Studienförderungsgesetz. I do not think it is negative to do so, and that is why our group will certainly agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15948	Mrs Moser-Starrach has also spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e15969	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer to the amendment to the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Law amending the Study Promotion Act 1992 and the Family Compensation Act 1967. In essence, the amendment is about two things: first, about apprentices, who, within the framework of the National Employment Plan, – i.e. participants in apprenticeships and apprenticeship foundations under the Youth Education Security Act – are first on the agenda until the 31st century. ==References====External links== They are to be equated with the other apprentices in the dual training plan. This means, of course, that they are to receive the benefits of the free movement of students from the family compensation fund. Secondly, there is a minor amendment to existing derogations for family aid. It is a correction of individual cases for presence and civil servants. The rules on the promotion of study and family support include more often problematic to divergent provisions. The Studienförderungsgesetz takes into account the social component, the family tax compensation law on family policy. You are not 1 : 1 applicable. The number of persons involved is also quite different: 80 000 beneficiaries for family aid and 30 000 for scholarships. The improvement for apprentices, presenters and civil servants is now available in writing, and the ÖVP is very pleased to give its approval to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In view of the fact that I am seeing the President-in-Office of the ÖH on the visitor bank, I would also like to mention a sentence which he quoted and which I particularly liked: that the Ministry of the Family has always tried to find shady measures. Thank you for your consent. However, all our efforts are still needed to solve problems relating to family aid, for example in the event of a change of study. The possibility of re-entry now available for family allowances after changes of study provided relief from the point of view of family aid beneficiaries. Inconsistencies are still present. For example, in the first part of the study in the first two semesters a student refers to family allowance, then changes the subject, can again obtain two semesters of family allowance, then changes again and in turn refers to family allowance. However, no family allowance is granted if he has completed the entire first study section – i.e. four semesters – and this is more often the case in practice. The transfer to a university is also linked to relinquishing the family allowance if the complete previous studies at the university cannot be recognized. So if someone studies the economy for four semesters and then changes to the business sector in a vocational college, the family allowance will be granted. However, if he changes to another subject area at a vocational college, he cannot be granted family allowances under existing legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore necessary to make further efforts to make minor changes to family policy in individual cases. I am pleased that savings needed to consolidate the budget can now be withdrawn and other references made to family aid. The family allowance is now a guarantee of the future for our youth and families. I continue to give my consent to budget consolidation. The limitation of the increase in public debt benefits our youth. The new Studienförderungsgesetz compensates for some of the savings needed in 1995/96. It meets the successful ones and takes into account family income; especially the middle class can be rethinked and expanded by increasing the income limit. The coverage of the health insurance of older students is supported. The increase in the number and extension of studies abroad is possible. There are good innovations in the degree programme: It is possible to leave the profession for one year and complete the studies. On-going evaluations are intended to accompany the impact. All are called – the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Family Affairs, the Ministry of Women, the Ministry of Social Affairs – to enable complex, networked systems for the material merit of our students. Three-quarters of all students work during their studies and holidays, both for their livelihood and for the acquisition of internships. Part-time students are on the rise. Higher education, labour law and social law must be made possible in the light of the new way of life and planning of our students.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16030	Mrs Mag. Worm reported in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16052	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Ministry of Science has produced a number of studies and studies on the social situation of students in recent years. One of these studies shows unisono: More and more students work before and during their studies. Do they have to or do they want to? Strong social changes in recent years have resulted in the classical student, the classical student belonging to the minority among students: Only one fifth of students, under quotation marks, are "more than" studying. This also means that students are increasingly divided into different groups. I would say that there are three groups: once the full-time students, then the classical students and finally the part-time students. In my opinion, these different groups must be treated differently, because they also have different, different needs. These different needs are taken into account by the Minister of Science Caspar. Now to the working students. For me, it is really a pleasure – it is almost a quantum leap – that, in the law of study, a degree programme of 15 000 S is now planned for working students per month and that these students are also socially insured. This is worth mentioning because, as I believe, something has changed in the minds of those who carry the teaching firm at the universities. I can remember – and as long as it hasn't been since I was able and had to be able to bring a career and study under a hat – that I still had to listen to a "day of the open door" at the University of Innsbruck, as a professor told us: If you have a job, you don't need a place to study. There, seems to me, is now a different spirit, and I am glad and really is a progress. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Another aspect of this funding is – I think and hope – that in the future, working students will also be more involved in studies, then they will carry out their diplomas, and they will also be able to complete their studies, in which this was hardly possible until now, or only under very difficult conditions. I am thinking here of technical and natural sciences. This would also be a small but fine contribution to the technology and research efforts that Austria is making in order to continue to be able to mix in the top of the industrialized countries. The same applies to the promotion of doctoral studies for graduate graduates. Now to the other group at the universities, to the so-called classic students. These too are considered in this law, because they receive more money, so they receive higher scholarships in order to be able to devote themselves fully to the study. This is useful in relation to the duration of the study, because we can also see from the reports we have before us: on average, those students who apply for scholarships are about 20 to 25 percent earlier in the course of their studies, because they are able to devote themselves fully to the study. What is still to be done in order to take into account the probably largest group of students now at the universities is the anchoring of part-time students, i.e. those students who combine careers and studies in so far as they have to go to work – as you say in the common language. The fact that the Federal Government is being asked in this resolution to draw up proposals to take account of this group is certainly important. It would also be important to me that the different groups are not played against each other. It has also been argued by the Court that the students who have completed full-time work are now taken into account, but part-time students are not taken into account. This motion for a resolution does so. This is important, even in the sense that students are not divided. In principle, it is to be said: I'm glad of this law! It helps many students. It is a start to a study reform, to a study programme that needs to continue, in the sense that there is a right of study of its own for students who are working.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16110	Mr Stampler has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16131	Mr President. Minister! High house! Scientific cooperation is important. If this scientific cooperation is still cross-border, it is very welcome. The Treaty with the Republic of Slovenia, which we are dealing with here today in Parliament, is an expression of the desire for more internationalisation of science and technology. Austria has always understood itself as a hub of the West into the new young democracies in the East. With enhanced cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia at a scientific level, we will once again fulfil this role. The aim of this Agreement is to support the development of direct scientific and technological relations between state institutions, academic academies, universities, scientific research centres, research and technology institutes, as well as between companies and other institutes on both sides. In addition, joint projects are being developed. Article 3 of this Treaty implements the forms of cooperation, namely the exchange of scientific and technical information, documentation and publications; Exchange of scientists and experts within the framework of bilateral projects approved by Parties for the implementation of scientific and technical cooperation; further implementation and support of joint scientific and technical events and other scientific programmes, taking into account multilateral initiatives, with the possibility of providing mutual research material, scientific equipment and equipment; and, fourth, other forms of scientific and technical cooperation established by the Parties. A Joint Committee shall be set up for the implementation of this Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! There shall be no confusion: The purpose of this agreement is not to create State-organized cooperation, but to provide a scientific basis for cooperation that has existed for several years and to express by both Contracting States the eligibility of such joint projects. This cooperation is already in place. – I would like to give some examples from Styria. On the one hand, there is the Joanneum in Graz, which is committed to intensive cooperation, and the University of Graz is also in close contact, among other things, with the universities in Liège and Marburg. As part of the so-called Alpen-Adria Conference, joint events have already taken place seven times. There is the possibility to be trained jointly in the thesis at the universities. So far, three dissertations have been written as part of such cooperation. Professor Ribitsch from Graz, among other things, supervises diplomas from the field of physical chemistry at the University of Marburg. Cooperation also focuses on technical problems, such as working with polymeric textiles and materials. In this area there is also intensive cooperation with Lenzing AG. Together with the universities of Liège and Marburg, about 30 to 40 lectures were held in the scientific sector and 20 scientific publications were published. In one word: Cooperation is already working very well. That is why it was now time to appreciate this cooperation from the state and to place it on a basis of international law, as I have said. Let's give our neighbors a hand! We can all benefit from this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16175	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Gartlehner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16193	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly formulate the "mainstream" of higher education policy in Austria in recent decades: I think the number of students in itself is a clear language about the performance of this higher education policy over the last decades. If one considers that the number of male students has tripled well since 1970 and the number of female students has almost changed and men like women are almost represented in the same strength at Austrian universities, then, as I believe, one can say that the framework conditions are nevertheless appropriate and Austrian higher education policy has ultimately been successful in these decades. Of course, improvements have been made in the legal bases in individual cases, and the amendments we are still deciding on need to be made today. . I have the honourful task of submitting an amendment which my colleague Sonja Moser has already discussed and commented on, and it is now really high time to present this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank you for your attention and ask you to support our amendment, for which I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16285	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Morak has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16307	Mr President. Minister! I would like to give a few sentences to the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the EU regions. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We don't understand you! I would not only like to see you visually, but also acoustically!]] I'm gonna talk a little louder! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: In Burgtheater-Deutsch please!]] There are, of course, scholarship programmes in all areas of scientific cooperation and cultural exchange programmes. It is therefore logical that we also talk about the recognition of studies in international agreements and that we also act accordingly. At present, recognition issues between the European States are dealt with in various agreements, namely in four Council of Europe agreements and in an agreement within the framework of UNESCO. And since today has already been spoken twice of the progress or non-advantages that would be found in this text, I would like to say that we are modest: It is already to be said that we have reached an agreement which replaces these five agreements, in particular in view of the fact that one of these agreements dates back to 1957. This may have a historical appeal, but something must be done very urgently in this area. Within the framework of this law, the autonomous decisions of each university remain, and individual national regulations provide sufficient scope for universities. The competent recognition authorities, the ministries, government agencies and higher education institutions which carry out the evaluation and evaluation are crucial. The new agreement will take account of diversification in the higher education sector. Not the formal structure, but the quality of teaching is crucial. – At this point, it is likely that criticism will be used, because anyone who has ever experienced quality monitoring knows how to argue about letters and sentences. The Parties shall not communicate to the other parties their assessment criteria and procedures. This law takes into account the increased or extremely growing mobility of students. It is certainly right what Mr Smolle said that we can imagine something better. Of course, binding targets for studying at universities in Europe would be nice. But if one reads the text of the law and knows what was accused and what interventions there were in order to preserve his independence, then one must say: Nevertheless, it was a step in the right direction. I think diversification is a fine thing. Democracy in a diversified society, however, means a hard piece of work, and this naturally radiates the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16356	Mrs Pittermann has also spoken. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16374	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For students with no proper residence at the university, the question of housing is in economic terms in particular. For these students, the higher cost of living and for those of socially weaker families mean overcoming geographical and social barriers. Living in student homes is the most affordable form after living in the parental home. Student homes and their carriers are key factors for many students to overcome these barriers. Student homes offer more than cheap living: They offer community, social co-life, help, support, service and, last but not least, time experienced together until the beginning of life friendships. Social democrats are a key concern for the economic and social support of students. At the beginning of the First Republic, it was a courageous, forward-looking undertaking of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club Secretary and later President Dr. Adolf Schärf to install economic aid for workers' students in order to enable young people from working-class families to study higher education through the construction of student homes. The establishment of this economic aid was a pioneer effort to realize the fundamental right to education. On the initiative of Minister of Science Dr. Heinz Fischer, a student home law was passed in 1986 that regulates the legal relationship between student homes and carriers. This proven law is updated by the current novel. Other concerns of students' homes are realized: more flexible design opportunities for short-term awarding of homes through flexible contract and pricing with the aim of keeping prices as low as possible, more mobility and flexibility for students with sufficient disposition opportunities for home-carriers by changing notice periods, creating a level of coordination of home speakers and home-carriers, participation of student students in the preparation of investment promotion plans, definition of conditions such as social need and favourable study progress, creating more transparency. Thanks to and recognition are paid to student homes such as the Ministry of Science, for building and operating student homes with public support and significant initiative, and to the Ministry of Science for the programme, which can build at least 7 000 additional student homes within a decade, as a result of financial support measures. We Social Democrats are proud that more than 5,400 new homes have already been created in Austria and about 2,000 homes are currently being realized. The annual investment of 300 million Schillings in the Federal Budget enables the maintenance, renovation and standard improvement of student homes. We Socialists, especially important to young people who are looking to the future and who have the right to education and to work, welcome these measures and the government template, which are important for the social situation of these and future generations of students.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16420	Mr Van der Bellen has also been mentioned. Rest of the time of your club: 17 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16439	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would just like to say that the Greens will agree to your proposals today. Mr Gabi Moser has meant that she cannot do this in a number of points, because in some respects she does not go far enough to support the students. The Greens, however, agree with the following laws: the Studienförderungsgesetz, the Family Tax Compensation Act, the Student Home Act, the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications in Higher Education and, finally, the Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16466	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. There is also no conclusion from the rapporteur. That is why we are entering the voting procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Study Promotion Act 1992 and the Family Compensation Act 1967, including the title and receipt in 1511 of the Supplements. Hiezu have MEPs Dr. Lukesch, DDr. An additional amendment or amendment was tabled by Lower Saxony and comrades. Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment or amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary or amending proposals, in line with them, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Counts and comrades have submitted an additional request relating to the insertion of new points 1a and 1b in Article II. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is no vote on the amendments to the paragraph names requested. Deputies Dr. Lukesch and DDr. The complainants have submitted an additional request to insert new points 2 to 5 in Article II. These are paragraphs 1 to 3 of this request. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. The vote will now be taken on paragraph 2 of Article II (50l). Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. In case of your consent, I will ask you for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Deputies Dr. Lukesch and DDr. Deweisers have also tabled an amendment which refers to Article II(50l). This is paragraph 4 of the motion. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, title and receipt, which have not yet been voted on, now in the version of the Committee's report. I would ask you to give an appropriate sign in case of your consent. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is also done by the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the 1511 Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 147.) We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Student Home Act, together with the title and receipt in 1512 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is also the majority. I notice: The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely the Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications in Higher Education in the European Region, in 1159 of the Supplements. If you want to grant this approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Committee on Science and Research pursuant to Rule 49(2). 2 Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of the French, Russian and Spanish language versions of the State Treaty must be carried out by means of a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades with regard to the creation of a legal representation of interests for students at higher education courses. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Scientific and Research Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely, agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on scientific and technical cooperation, in 1388 of the Supplements. If you want to grant this approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Approval shall be granted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1351 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. 12. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1470 of the Supplements): Higher schooling law 1998 – HSG 1998 as well as applications 183/A of Member States MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning a federal law amending the High School Law 1973 and the Federal Law on the Equality of South Tyrol with Austrian Citizens in certain administrative areas, and 444/A of Deputies Dr. Martina Gredler and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the High School Law 1973 and the Federal Law on the Equality of South Tyrol with Austrian Citizens in certain administrative areas (1513 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16655	I'm calling 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speech is by Mr Graf. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16683	Mr President. High house! Minister! We now come to the issue you have discussed on the previous item on the agenda. Perhaps we will still have a discussion with you about the reform of the ÖH law. I would like to quote something because I think it is entirely correct what Wolfgang Heppe, his sign for organization and administration of responsible ÖH representatives at the Kunsthochschule Vienna, said to ÖH on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the "Tritonus" issue. His statement is at the core, and Heppe, as you may know, is not the political direction I belong to. Inquiring about the ÖH and whether it is still an adequate representation of interest or not, he said: "To do so much: Try to abolish the ÖH, and then watch who is opposed to it; that will be guaranteed once the ÖH itself, but that will be just as much of the government, the parties, the university directors and so on. The actual clients, the students, will certainly not tear themselves for the ÖH. So: Who needs the ÖH?" Ladies and gentlemen! It's really little to add to that! In view of the fact that, in the current form, the OH has a voting participation of far below 30 per cent, it really must be asked whether there can be a sufficient representation of interest in this context at all. We liberals believe that a genuine representation of interest by the Federal Republic of Germany will not and will never be guaranteed because of this reform which is under way today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! In this context, I am also somewhat disappointed that we are being presented with a very worrying draft of democracy policy. I have already tried to analyse this in committee and will also do a lot about it here. First of all, one must know the ruling states if one is to reform. There are two problems: Due to the low number of elections, there is hardly any legitimacy. The students do not feel represented by this ÖH because it is simply not accepted. There is a need for reform in this respect. Moreover, there is a need for reform because, after the last election of the ÖVP, it was hardly possible to set up a functioning administration at all; it was hardly possible to elect a chairman. I believe that this is enough for reforms, apart from the third problem that is being addressed, namely the passive right of foreigners to vote. And then you'll give us something like that, Minister. The presentation of this draft law with the approval of the government parties is really cockbled. I would like to quote a few more from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the one hand, I would have liked to see the ÖH reform, if we were not able to create a majority more, because there are rigid fronts, something creative, for example, that we introduce a percentage ceiling to counteract the fragmentation, which is admittedly the reason that there is hardly any more majority formations. This is also due to the ÖH's community of action, because there is in itself a middle-right majority, but one is comically oriented by the advance organisation of the ÖVP only to the left. And that made everything so difficult: There is in itself a clear majority, but you did not perceive it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] One could think of introducing a percentage. If, after many elections, there is no decision, one could simply question the voters again and say: We are unable to cool and create majority voting, so choose your own representative once again! – That would have been the right thing to do. Instead of introducing the regulation – and since the ÖVP has been drawn over the table, I say now and will also justify it – that in the fourth election, if no majority has yet been elected, the relative majority of the valid votes will suddenly be able to elect the chairman in a mere presence of a third of the electorate. It was calculated in the Committee that in absolute extreme cases 9.8 per cent of the electorate can determine the chairman. But this is not the case: In fact, within the meaning of the law, two eligible persons can theoretically form the relative majority of the valid votes. And I think that is really a question of democracy policy, and I also think it is worrying that there is no possibility of new elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is also worrying that such a chairman, if he is distrusted, cannot be chosen because he needs a 50 percent presence quorum and a two-thirds majority. In my opinion, this is really last-class and an attack on democracy at the university level in Austria! And the ÖVP has played there, you have to say that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last point: The electoral commission, which decides who is allowed to stand as a candidate group and who is not, now consists only of the three strongest groups of the last election, and not of any more. - That's where the big ones have reorientated! That too is a matter of concern to democracy and is a matter of clumsy! I therefore urge that this legal provision not enter into force, because in this context too: Better a bad old law than a worse new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16772	Mr Ddr. Decliner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16790	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is the saying: as the blind speak of the color. – I must have thought about this when Mr Graf spoke about democratic needs. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I mean, the liberals who give big talks here, how to vote or not to vote, but to send to their country organizations any managing directors with videos of the chairman who is to be elected, have no right to speak here and to speak about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Look at how you choose your chairperson in a democratic way! There's still a lot to do! You still have a lot to do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Second point: You have now taken various steps to abolish the legal interests – there have been signatures, there have been popular desires for it, or whatever you have done here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 20 percent voter participation!]] You have failed so far, and now you want to try this again at high school because you think you have a weak opponent here. – No, not only do you have the high schooling as an opponent, you also have us as an opponent if you want to abolish the Austrian high schooling. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: The pitcher goes to the well for so long until it breaks!]] What does this law include? – This law is trying to take into account some of the problems that Austrian high school has faced in recent years, and one of them is that the commitment to student politics among students remains behind expectations – let’s say it that way. There are too few who are actually involved in making student policy in the study committees, at the Institute level, in the various bodies and working for the interests of the students. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And that's why you have to choose so undemocraticly?]] That is why we have been aware, Mr Graf, not only of your criticism of family aid, but also of the fact that we have made even more of a piece more that will of course not fit you: For the first time in this law and for the first time in a high school law, we have also included a provision that the free electorate for those who exercise these functions is made accountable for the activity as a student representative. [[Abg. Young:... Pragmatization!]] Yes, I thought you wouldn't. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Functionary privileges!]] But it is precisely that co-determination also needs the necessary time, not only to sit in bodies, but also to prepare itself accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Functionary privileges!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No student really understands that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That doesn't interest anyone! No one wants that, just you!]] Just think of what it means to prepare for, for example, the preparation of a study plan to work on content in this matter Here, unlikelyly many qualifications are taught – although certainly not the qualification to let anyone talk – I like to agree with them – which justify making this acceptable. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Niederweiser! I was fully employed, did this and studied in a relatively short time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's always the question whether I want it or not!]] What's happened? . We have provided secure funding for the Austrian high school, including a valorisation of contributions. We have taken into account a request to represent the Federal Government, which has specifically come from the colleges of each university, from the previous Chairmans of the Committee, namely the introduction of a Presidency conference. We have planned different sizes for these individual university representatives, we have carried out an up-to-date evaluation of the study orientations and we have established decision-making committees. It contains many things that I would like to expressly point out that, on the part of the Austrian high school, on the part of the political groups there, there has been a great deal of ideas and proposals that we have tried to implement. What is still open from our point of view are two points: on the one hand, the anchoring of a student representation for the The field of high-school studies – which is guided by a resolution, it takes a little more time – and on the other hand, the passive right to vote for all students. We have not yet found the necessary agreement with our coalition partner, but at least one foot in the door by the committee's statement that, in a next step, the appropriate arrangements will also be made in order to provide for the passive right of election for all. Overall, this law means an effective instrument for student policy. We are sure that in the field of Austrian higher education we will find a partner in the future through this law, who demands us more and who demands us more than has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e16982	The next speech is by Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17004	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would really be pleased to support a law that is borne by those concerned themselves. But that is not true in this case, and I deeply regret that. I deeply regret that, although the chairmen of the four largest political groups of the Federal Republic of Germany report today in the press, they all demand only one right to vote – that is, the passive right to vote in favour of all foreign colleagues without exception – we do not agree in this House. That's a scandal! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I really think that's a scandal! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the legal situation!]] You create a category of evil and good foreign students! I can't support this! I think that this is the most contradicting thing we are trying to do here in the house: drive a cone into a group that itself does not want at all! [[Call the ÖVP: Don't be so upset!]] That is why I think this is not responsible, ladies and gentlemen. That's really incredible what's happening here! We have been trying for years to discuss this topic in plenary in a relaxed atmosphere, so that no emotions become free – but now I can no longer! I do not think this is the right way to proceed if you, Mr Lucisch, agree that only EEA citizens are given the right to vote passively. They deliberately discriminate against other people who have the same qualifications that have to meet the same criteria so that they can even get on the lists. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not how it will be!]] And another one: If one were to take democracy in this House seriously as an export hitch, then it would be like to promote such people who study with us and then return to their own countries, then one would allow them to live with democracy and not just to experience it from a audience gallery. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not how it will be!]] If we call for democracy in countries where it is difficult to demand it, we must integrate these students here! And what are you doing? – They rule them out! I really think that's a disgusting thing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mrs Gredler, you have made a word-ident request!]] Don't talk about foreign integration, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now you are against it, against your own request!]] You could support the amendment I am still submitting. Then I'd like to be willing to discuss with you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This would really be in line with what those concerned want. I really think that this is a point of view if you understand democracy in such a way that it begins with exclusion. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this context, Mr President, we really need to consider whether compulsory membership in an ÖH which has a legal basis which is intended to act discriminatoryly is desirable in this context at all. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Yes, my goodness!]] This is a fundamental consideration that we have: In the opinion of the Liberals, membership should exist only on a voluntary basis and should not be equivalent to forced recruitment. The only thing I really see as progress in this law is the continuous application of the female and male form of language – this is the second law I have to do with, which is the case – and for this I would like to thank you, Minister. What I regret is that the d’Hondtsche procedure will only prefer larger groups in election mode. We tried a different variant. We have tabled a comprehensive amendment to the Committee, which unfortunately did not find a majority, but we will allow ourselves to deepen this issue and re-submit it at a later stage. We regret that the university students have not been involved. It is high time that representation opportunities were expanded at the vocational colleges. Here, Federal Minister, there is an urgent need for action. Mr. Luke, take this to heart: If you were outlawed, you'd cry too!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17152	The just-readed amendment is properly submitted and supported accordingly. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. Mr Dr. Lukesch has been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17176	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make two comments on this new ÖH law. In contrast to you, the Austrian People's Party, Mr Graf, acknowledges its full commitment to public law, to the self-government body of public law for our students, because that is the basis of co-determination, this model of co-determination, which has proved to be very successful. We confess to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you complain, Mr Graf, that certain groups in the ÖH, for example at the AG, no longer co-operate with the RFS, then consider what it means to cooperate with a group that does not really want the present and massively fought form of co-determination and self-government! That's the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 30 years we were in a coalition, there was the same!]] Well, you have changed your views, Mr. Graf, quite simply! You have changed your views, not least under the impression – and this is my witness – Mr President Brauneder, who once again says in the liberal science psychologists – as always – according to the liberal concept the students have – they like to hear that now! – a right of hearing in all audit matters and a right of application in matters of study, in relation to the number of hours what needs to be studied. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 30 years we were in a coalition, and there was the same!]] No, we don't think these young people are immature children! They're supposed to be involved, and we need them at the university! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then, Mr Graf, accuse us of having acted undemocraticly in this new statute, in this new statute, in this law for the Austrian high school. At the same time, however, you also say - at least in the Committee you said - that the EIA would have been pulled over the table, because we would never again put the chairman at the Federal Assembly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it! That's it!]] [[Call to the Freeman: It is Genauso!]] Something can't be right here – excuse me! If we were to put together the right to vote in such a way that it would be particularly pleasant for a particular group – for our or for the VSSTÖ – we would certainly also have insisted that we or them present the chairman. So there is something wrong with this! In reality, we have tried to establish a very objective right to vote, to create objective structures, to make the ÖH more decisive, to take back the ever-increasing attempts at blocking the many groups and groups in the ÖH somewhat and thus to make the ÖH a stronger representative of the students' interests, both in the student field and in the political field. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But it has remained in the attempt!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Better try than fail!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But that was the VSSTÖ, the Liberals and the Greens!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we do not take the laborious path through elections and through the students to get into corresponding functions in the ÖH. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's no problem!]] Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, Mrs Gredler, on your question of extending passive voting rights: First of all, in order to take note of this, it is necessary to say that the right of election of all ordinary listeners at the Austrian universities – but this has been true for years. First point. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Second point: There is nowhere in the world – nowhere in the world! – an organisational model of universities in which students are involved in co-responsibility and co-determination in such a way that they participate in government decisions. This is, of course, already a certain threshold in the basic state law, and that is why we must, today, also by the constitutional provision of this command, that only Austrian citizens should be allowed to participate in the authorities, so that the members of the European Economic Area can have their say in doing so. Mrs Gredler, you can say what you want! Firstly, I believe – and I am convinced – that a foreign student who comes to us comes primarily to us to learn something at our good universities and to complete a degree, and not to pursue policy. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: But that doesn't exclude the other one!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Are you saying they're not learning anything?]] Your argument to learn democracy from us is – excuse me! – in reality arrogant and alien discriminating! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Are you saying they're not learning anything?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Why do you override the basic state law for EU citizens? Explain that!]] Of course, you can look at the matter from different sides. [[Abg. Smolle: Why do you disappropriate the state law for EU citizens?]] The glass is half full, or it's half empty. [[Abg. Smolle: You're turning the law as you need it!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Smolle.]] The fact is that 56 percent of foreign students are now also passively elected. I'm allowed to say one thing: In the year of the Austrian EU Presidency, it is a very important sign that, in the absence of a European citizenship, we also grant EEA citizens full voting rights, active and passive. That's an important sign! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Smolle: What does this have to do with the state law?]] Thirdly, We should also maintain a certain parallelity with the other self-government bodies and chambers. [[Abg. Smolle: Either they are all foreigners or certain foreigners...!]] With today's decision-making, the Austrian high school is once again a step ahead, and I am also glad that our young people have and are fighting for democracy. That's a good sign. [[Abg. Smolle: (uplifted from his place) You can't...!]] [[Call from the ranks of the ÖVP:Setts]] But with this step we should now gather experience – and I would like to take this into account – in order to see if the nationalist ideas have actually been overcome or if ethnic groupings do not come back to corresponding objectives. [[Further calls of the Abg. Smolle.]] Dear colleague Smolle! You're roaring around here, but I'm telling you one thing: A Kurd list that goes against a Turkish list, a Bosnier list that goes against a Serbian list – I don't want to do that at our universities! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] We would bring the ethnic conflicts to the detriment of students, especially foreign students, to our universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] We will consider whether there is a German list that is committed to increasing the number of German citizens at the medical faculty of my home university at the expense of the Austrian study places and laboratory places. [[Abg. Smolle: Lukesch is wrong! Lukesch is wrong! Your own people say Luke is wrong!]] Summary: Now, if we take a first step in extending this passive electoral right, we will gain experience, and then you will find me very well prepared to take another dynamic step. [[Abg. Smolle: Lukesch is wrong!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17541	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, has made a point of correcting the matter. – I ask that the GOG provisions be complied with.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17566	From this speaker's point of view, Member Lukesch has claimed that the AG student's representative has never or would never go into a coalition because of the association with the RFS. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I didn't say that at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's wrong!]] I'm correcting: The fact is that the ÖVP-near organization has been in coalition with the RFS for over 30 years. That was a time when the ÖH was still working – I say so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From the coalition one has only been called "Krones" with the first arm of the JES under Tina Taurer – you may know them [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You misuse the actual correction!]] This is the one who has also had irregularities in the Austrian high school in 1986, because of the in-sich-businesses that were made at that time and which today makes headlines again. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's a fool!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] That is the reason why you left the coalition with us!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17680	Mr Karl Öllinger has been mentioned on the floor. – Do you want to set a speaking time? - No, I don't.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e17701	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the debate has clearly reached a certain peak in its level, I will make an effort not to interrupt this level. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch:... you're damping it again, aren't you?]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is no longer possible anyway!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Lukesch! You can do a lot. Of course, you can also take – as I mean – the primitive comparison that you have drawn and say: The Turks and the Kurds then beat themselves. Mr Lukesch! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I have experienced this myself in Innsbruck at the Ausländerreferat!]] I myself was a student representative, and I can remember times in high school, which is the result – please be quiet, colleague Bauer! – "bleached" that colleagues of the RFS offered anti-Semitic hatreds from the panel. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Where? Where?]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Which list were you on?]] And here you come with the absolutely primitive, tasted picture, the Turks and the Kurds would beat. – This is really the last one, Mr Luke! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Are you closing this?]] I'm not used to that, and we don't need that. You don't need that, especially! You really do not need to argue in the debate on the passive right of foreign students to vote with striking foreign students. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You invented that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You interpret it as you like!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lukesch! They say that a significant sign has been given within the EU Presidency. But you know very well that this sign, in terms of the passive right to vote, was the last wink possible, that we must do it! It was not an important sign, but we must do it! There is no other way! The EU citizens are equal to us. You will have to get used to this, and it is likely that the FPÖ will have to decide sometime in its thinking that this is actually the case. The times have changed, or – that is to say, Mr. Graf understands it – tempera mutantur. [[Call to the liberals: Oh, oh, oh!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Colleague, the vocabulary was wrong!]] Mr Lukesch, you therefore do not need to argue that it is an important sign, because it is a requirement! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have made the vocabulary wrong!]] This has nothing to do with the vocabulary. Excuse me, Mr Stadler, that the vocabulary is not inside – but please! Yeah, yeah, with you maybe when you sing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He wasn't in there with you, but he belongs in.]] But I don't sing those songs or those words. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you want to be well, you have to say it right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we must meet these requirements. And I can only point out on this occasion, Mr. Lukasch: Although we have now created different classes of foreign students through this law, namely those who are EEA citizens, and those who are not, but we have other laws that we must have adapted and with which we have created even more different classes. For, for example, while the EEA citizens are the same as here in the Chamber of Commerce, they are not the same at the Chamber of Labour! There equality does not even apply to EEA citizens! Also there was the ÖVP, who argued with the "Turkish and Kurdish hordes" who would then "beat the skulls" in the works council, in the workers' chamber and so on as soon as they only got in. Or it was called what was also a popular argument: "Our businesses and the economic organization of these companies are being undermined." Mr Lukesch, too, used this image in this debate on the students de facto today and in some way took the view: If too many foreigners – especially the "false" foreigners, namely Turkish and Kurdish – get into danger of science and research, then all that is positive at our Austrian universities could go to the absolute opposite! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But you can't discuss the ethnic conflicts away!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] That, Mr Lukesch, was quite a deep attack – I cannot say otherwise. There is a certain level at which we should agree and that should not be undermined in a debate. That's what I'm expecting from the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] If you are not willing to comply with certain minimum standards set by the EU, then you will need to learn. I guarantee you on this occasion – I have already told you –: You will certainly receive a complaint from the EU Commission – unfortunately not for the students. [[Abg. Smolle: But the Portuguese, the...!]] You will still have to correct what you have abstained from us in the working-championship elections with regard to EEA citizens – that was also you with your steel helmet brother Fassleven, who blocked the front line in the Council of Ministers! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Mr. Oillinger, this is infantil!]] If you do not, then the Austrian National Council, the European Court of Justice or the European Commission will throw it at your feet, because, I hope, this policy of exclusion, despicableness, despoiling - only because of another citizenship - is now a passé in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: ridiculous! That's ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: No one says that, only Mr. Oillinger! That's ridiculous!]] It is passé – not only in Styria, but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18005	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, has made a point of correcting the matter. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18030	Mr President. Mr Oellinger has said from this speaker's point of view that his anti-Semitic hatreds have been expressed by the RFS's speaker. - That's not true! I'm actually correcting: The opposite is true! [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: This is not an actual correction!]] Anti-Semitic hatreds always come only from the Communists – see Russia today – and their spiritual uraniums, the group of revolutionary Marxists!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18079	Mr Graf, this is not an actual correction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] - Please, no calls now! The next speaker is Mr Stippel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18114	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my view, the Austrian Student Law, which we will shortly decide here, brings a number of progress, of benefits to the students. There are, however, two points which I have been giving from this speaker's point of view for a long time, which have not been decided so far and which, unfortunately, cannot be adopted by the present draft law. With my nearly 20 years of belonging to this house, I belong to those who know that already since the XIII. The legislative period on students' passive right to vote at Austrian universities and universities is discussed and discussed. ==References== In the legislative period, Mr Lukesch, you were initially prepared by the ÖVP to accept this passive right of election for all ordinary listeners among the students. But then suddenly the swirl came. We today decide to extend passive voting rights to EEA nationals. - Well, that's progress. But for 3 to 4 percent – more than it is – the ordinary listener at our universities does not apply this passive voting right in the future. We exclude them from this passive right of vote, at a time when we are talking so much about internationality, mobility and the like. It also doesn't count any more those excuses, which at the time were mainly used at the art universities – now they are called different, but I still have an opinion of the high school at the University of Music and Performing Arts – in so far as they said: At the art universities you can't do that, otherwise the elongated students from the German neighboring country would dominate the student representations. I quote from the opinion on the HSG draft on the law to be adopted today. In detail, here is "Point 2.1. Passive voting right for foreign students: "The creation of passive voting rights for all" – the word "all" is written boldly – "foreign students are especially necessary at the art universities. The student representatives also called for this again in the context of resolutions, because due to the high proportion of foreign students, there were often not even enough immigrants to send them to the various collegial bodies. The introduction of passive voting rights for all students is therefore very welcome." - Quote. This was at a time when the introduction of passive voting rights for all students was still included in the draft government paper. Unfortunately, it is no longer contained, and I must say that I regret that we cannot decide on this passage today. However, the final sentence of Mr Lucisch in his speech a few minutes ago makes me hope that we may be able to come to this regulation at the next revision. In my ears, at least it sounded a little bit like that. The second problem is the question of the representation of students at the university programmes. Five years ago, we passed the relevant law, and we discussed the representation of students at the colleges at the time. We have not yet reached a regulation. I am therefore pleased that there is at least one motion for a resolution, and I would ask the Federal Minister to comply with this resolution as quickly as possible, so that students can also be given the opportunity of student representation and co-administration at the colleges and colleges.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18167	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18185	Mr President. High house! Mr. Lukesch! You first had the "friendliness" – under quotation marks – to address me at a time when I could not answer you. But you also had the kindness to speak so long as I can answer you now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! If you already quote, please do it completely! Mr Lukesch! If You are already aware of the opportunity to speak not only to the plenary session but also to another audience, I would like to ask you to explain to this other group of recipients why there is a difference between a student from Bratislava – the nearest University of Vienna – and a student from Passau – the next University of Linz! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also, explain to us – and this would be particularly interesting to me as a constitutional lawyer – why you and your group often have no concern about changing constitutional laws and basic state laws into simple laws, without this really happening here, but to us today, what a major problem it is to change the basic law of 1867 on this issue. – I would be very grateful to you for explaining why on the one hand you have no concern about changing the Constitution, so to speak, but on the other hand, I am very concerned! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch! I'll invite you to: Explain this to us! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18236	Mrs. Dr. Brinek is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18258	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think we should return with a lot cooler head to what moves us and what we want to change with this present ÖH law. We discussed the new demands and expectations of students and their representation at the previous item on the agenda. We have talked about the fact that there are more and more students studying part-time and full-time work and that these students, whose numbers have increased in a steep curve, have different representation needs from those of traditional full-time students. For example, these students are less interested in policy-theoretical discussions, on the other hand much more in the service, the modernisation of the study firm and easier access to research projects. They expect support in questions they address directly. Nevertheless, these students, who, as I believe, are the majority, are not unself-employed in terms of thinking and acting, non-transboundary citizens of tomorrow. Assuming citizens: The student representatives are citizens who are right to interfere in their own affairs! I observe, for example, at the University of Vienna with increasing concern that many students have recently withdrawn from the student representation, apparently especially because the law has not just supported their views. They have thus put collegiate bodies in a situation where their decision-making capacity has been or is at risk, and they have justified their fact-finding by other matters, such as foreign studies, participation in other events or other articulation of needs. I therefore think it is very important that we decide today to take into account the commitment of students, first of all with regard to family support and second with regard to up to four semesters from the constituency section in the curriculum. I think it is important to see what answers will be given to what problems. We must take seriously, for example, the sentence that Peter Glotz recently said in Austria in the context of the Austrian Research Community Conference – I do not think so: "Politics have responded incorrectly to the explosion of student numbers. Instead of new management structures came democratization, which all too often" – and now it becomes exciting – "bureaucratization meant." – End of the quote. These are the words of the founding rector of the University of Erfurt. I think we should take them seriously. It is also very important to me in this context to break a lance for Dieter Lukesch. He has not made anyone despicable, nor has he built up a European ethnic-popanium, in order to then try to get out of the loop strangely. Instead, he has pleaded for a European path. And if the thesis in the room now stands that the European circle is too narrow and art students have not come to their right, then we now have time to review these these theses, to observe developments and to evaluate what the new word means. I agree with him when he says: The European horizon is sufficient, there is no need for enlargement. It is therefore important not to fall into a hot-blooded political discussion and thus to strengthen prejudices instead of dismantling them. I'm summing up: The ÖH Act allows more efficient structures in the sense that young citizens can interfere in their own affairs. There must be only more than three referendums, the number of mandates will be reduced, and, as the AG representative Trummer puts it, "in line with the number of listeners, the exact number of Uni-Mandatare will be calculated by means of a root function". . I am glad that we have so many young people with technical and organisational know-how who have made very good proposals. We can agree to this law and will closely monitor its effects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18307	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18328	Mr President. I spoke again because I wanted to take up two things. First of all, I would like to address the deep distrust that you, Mr Lukesch, and probably your whole group have towards foreigners who do not come from the EEA area. It's significant when you're talking about lists that Bosnians say against Croats and Turks against Kurds. This is significant for the picture you make of foreigners! . I appreciate these people so that they will fit seamlessly into the structures we have in Austria and will not be candidates for national groups. In addition, you have said that foreigners come to us to study. – You actually talk about those students who are involved in democratic structures, the ability to study. They mean: The "Lordships above" do not study, but only make politics. – But I have to oppose you! The "Lordships above" study and make politics! They both do! And this would also create foreigners! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Stippel said he regrets not being able to accept this amendment today. Ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group! I'm really asking you: Where does your free mandate remain in such a matter? Where is it going to be when it comes to integrating foreigners? . I would like you, on this issue, to take the liberty not to give the top priority to the interests of the club, but to vote according to the inner conviction and to offer foreigners the possibilities of integration that one would wish for.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18374	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A Committee statement on this law has so far been kept silent. It states that the possibility of a dynamic further development of the passive electoral right for foreigners will be examined. – Mr Lukesch, too, seems to be able to imagine this. Mr Lukesch! For dynamic development: They have developed very "dynamic" on the issue of foreign election law. Mr Stippel calls for the right to vote in favour of all foreigners in one, two years' time. – So "dynamic" is your development! Ours is not in this respect. We imagine a completely different structure and cannot go along with your assessment that the public law body has proved itself to be successful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr. Lukesch! There are signs that confirm this, not just the results of the elections and what Mr Graf correctly quoted. I even claim: The ÖH in this form does not leave students if it does not exist! Mr. Lukesch explains that the "colleges up there" on the gallery are mature. How mature can the collegiates be up there? Can you please manage yourself? Do we really need 58 paragraphs to tell them how to manage? We always call after university autonomy! Would the universities and art universities please decide for themselves whether they want to have foreign listeners in any form – passive or active – in an association form or other form of self-government – or not?- Oh, my God! Are the "colleges up there" so mature? – In my opinion and in our opinion: Yes! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's give them the autonomy! Let us give them the opportunity to manage themselves, and let us stop messing them up with paragraphs! This search for regulation, which you give of yourself in every line of this bill, is really unbearable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few little "privilegies" have been invented, how one can only secure the civil service of the student representatives and rescue them over the years. – Forget this, Mr. Lukesch! Please forget! At that time we were in the late 1960s ÖH representatives with 85 percent voter turnout. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was in Leoben!]] We did not take care of these public-law games, but we simply represented the interests of the students. And there was no politicization and leaning on any major political parties that would have set us an example. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] As you see or interpret this for yourself today, I leave you. But I know one thing, when I'm at the College meeting: The students' bank is almost empty. The official representatives of the ÖH shall no longer meet the requirements imposed on them. Two, three of possible 24, which should be there... – Ordinary [[Abg. Arbitrators: But at least it is known that when talking, you take your hand out of the pocket of your pants!]] You try to take what comes out of your mouth with your preference, and try to look over my hand! But for your sake, it's done. [[The speaker takes his hand out of his pocket.]] This personal attack, Mr Schieder, has been abandoned. One last thing I want to put on: The Federal Minister has today stated that he will only speak on the subject of tuition fees if he is forced to do so. Yesterday, when I read about it, I had the impression that, after the Semmering miscarriage, he really wanted to leave politics by taking up the hottest iron in science policy, the study fees. Today he has relativized this statement and put it correctly in his mind. Federal Minister! But you should also know: For Tony Blair, that's not a problem at all. There are study fees in seven EU countries, and they will not be prevented in the long term. They will – no matter what form and when – necessarily come. In my view You do not make this suggestion so to speak negligent, but you too will soon move in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18486	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18507	Ladies and gentlemen! I would simply like to give you the opportunity, alternatively to the amendment tabled by the Liberals, to accept an amendment by the Greens, which is verbal but does not differ in content from the first. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP! Use the opportunity to diversity! Decide either for the request of the Liberals or for that of the Greens! The choice is yours.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18558	The application which has just been submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. There are no more words available. The debate is closed. We therefore proceed to the vote. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1513 of the supplements. Mr Petrovic, Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 LEG the presence of the constitutional quota required for the vote. I shall first vote on the amendments mentioned and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has tabled an amendment to § 35 para. 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Petrovic's request for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. There is therefore also a need to vote on the amendments requested to the numbering designations. Mrs. Dr. Gredler has also tabled an amendment to § 35 para. 2 refers. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion by Dr Gredler for a sign. – The request has remained in the minority. He is therefore rejected. We therefore come to the vote on § 35 para. 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this sign. – This is adopted by a majority, with the required two-thirds majority. In this way we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who wish to give their consent to this request for a positive sign. – These parts of the bill have also been adopted with the explicitly required two-thirds majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation by a sign. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority of two-thirds in the case of the quota required at third reading. In the course of the debate, a motion for a resolution has also been tabled or has been annexed to the Committee's report in 1513. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in 1513 of the Supplements give a sign of approval. This motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 148.) That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 13. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1218 of the Supplements): Amateur Radio Law 1998 – AFG (1497 of Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1250 of the Supplements): Funker-Zeugnisgesetz 1998 – FZG (1498 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1220 of the Supplements): Additional Protocol of 26. of 18 March 1998 on the rules governing shipping in the Danube. August 1948 and the signing protocol (1499 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (1468 of the Supplements): The Federal Law amending the Telecommunications Act (2. TKG-Novelle (1496 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18702	We come to points 13 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no wish for oral reporting, so we can go into the discussions immediately. The first speech is by Mr Meischberger, with a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18726	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Given the public debated issues, the selection of today's applications and contributions to the debate is truly scandalous. This scandal has actually begun in committee, I do not wish to mention it here. Mr Parnigoni, President-in-Office of the Council, together with the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, has prevented us from having the opportunity to debate today in the House on what really concerns the Austrians and actually interest them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should just like to point out that, as an opposition, we have requested a general debate on open questions about the whole of the transport sector in order to obtain information on the large "Master Plan" which is being applied for. If the opposition asks for this information, it seems to be too much! I don't understand this because this is a 340-billion-shilling project, an air bubble that is already widely applied today with an advertising campaign of 32 million schilling and with a colorful brochure that lies everywhere in the public. In the end, however, we are not prepared to talk about such issues in the Committee on Transport. Ladies and gentlemen! But that's not enough. In addition, applications were on the Committee's agenda, which directly concerns the Austrian population. These were as relevant topics as Brenner-Tout, Maut-Stretching, the impact on the economy and so on. But it was also about the sad issue of Semmering-basistunnel, which this week has already gained sad fame through the criticism of the Court of Auditors and the actually scandalous reaction of the Federal Minister. I can already think of how the Federal Minister now looks behind me, he may even laugh, because Mr Parnigoni also laughs, but that is the usual way of dealing with such concerns and such issues in the Committee on Transport. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We stand here today and talk about traffic policy peanuts such as the Funker-Zeugnisgesetz and amateur radio in general, that is, things that really don't touch the population. Federal Minister! This process can no longer be surpassed by arrogance and ignorance! However, from this point of view I can also tell you that we are still spoiling this ignorance in the long run. Your strategy is clear: First of all, you want the opposition and every critic in the whole debate stupid to die. Secondly, you are using twenty million schilling for advertising to spread sand to the people and to raise in the population hopes for transport solutions that are geared to years ahead and which you will probably never implement. The third point of your strategy is to misuse this advertising campaign for nothing other than for an initial election advertising – I emphasize: also against your coalition partner – and for a personality show that is really embarrassing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to remind you that you also had the forehead to write to the opposition party clubs a letter asking for support for an information campaign that would be so important from your point of view. – The word "campaign" is true, and 32 million schilling is a lot of money. But where is the information, Mr. Federal Minister? When the poster is called down "Mami, I have to!" and which is called "an information of the Minister of Transport", then I must They ask: What do you want the people to do with "Mami, I have to!" inform me, Mr. Federal Minister? Do you perhaps want to remind us that your transport policy and the transport policy of your predecessors are a daily cause of congestion? Do you want to inform the people about this? Or would you like to give the "important" information of the Federal Minister: "I am also against the traffic jams, I, your transport minister!", and that by 32 million schilling?- Oh, my God! Federal Minister! In addition – and that can't be a coincidence! – that in the very same type of material another information, on the topic 0.0 Promille, also runs by twenty million schilling, which is used by you in turn as a Personality show. And "by chance" the Austrian Bundesbahnen also have at the same time a campaign called "Laster-poor traffic" or "Way with the trucks from the road, everything on the track". And this campaign exactly supports your information campaign. In total, Mr Federal Minister, this is about 80 million schilling, which is currently being abused for your personality show. This is a scandal, and we will look at this scandal even more closely! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the subject of Bundesbahnen you can also say the following: The Bundesbahnen make a television advertising, in which the trucks are away from the road at the push of a button. – One pretends that the federal railways are the group that takes the truck away from the road. Federal Minister! Now we ask you a very clear question, and I expect you to answer it today: Who, then, is Austria's biggest sparker, and who operates most of the trucks in Austria? – It is, and this should not surprise you, the Austrian Bundesbahnen with 800 trucks, which are sent daily by the ÖBB on Austria’s roads! – Therefore, I can only call what the above-mentioned advertising campaign conveys as sand-in-the-eye scatters!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18806	Mr Meischberger, I have to ask you a question. It has been said early today that the agenda items "Amateurfunksgesetz" and "Funker-Zeugnisgesetz" are not important and that other issues of transport policy may be discussed. But then it was voted on, and the National Council decided by a majority to leave the agenda unchanged. Whether we think this is right or wrong: This agenda is now under discussion. – I ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18833	Mr President. I am also talking exactly about this agenda and what I do not like on this agenda. The Amateur Radio Act... [[Abg. Silhavy: Understanding democracy!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: There was an objection debate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Further calls.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] I think it is of great interest, even to the House, to be of interest, as the Committee deals with important requests on other issues. – Also the Amateur Radio Act and the Funker-Zeugensgesetz will continue to be treated by us. I would just like to give you a final statement on this subject, and may I ask you briefly how the Federal Minister abuses this campaign for his own purposes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18913	Deputies! They are at the word – and not a tape.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e18943	If that is the case, Mr President, I can read it to you. – The spot of the Minister for Transport is [[the speaker imitates the tone of the speaker from the commercial spot]] "Yesterday the Minister of Transport was on TV, with the action 'Null Promille', and my mother saw him!" [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] "And she said: That's a bad man! And he's so hot! And you can learn something from that one! I'm saying, who? Say: "One!" I'm saying, So, who's from now on? She says, "No, no, no, Well, of one! I'm saying, You don't even remember the name! She says, "No, no, no, It doesn't matter! The main thing is, you'll find out: Zero promille, zero problems – and off!" [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Lively condolences with the liberal and detonative acclaim at SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister and colleagues from the government parties! I can tell you that we have also made a mockery on this issue, with a little more truth. This spot is [[The speaker again imitates the tone of the speaker from the above quoted advertising spot.]] "Today is the Minister of Transport in Parliament! And he doesn't understand the real traffic problems again! Even if he puts his head on the side, he doesn't think of anything! He does nothing but scatter sand into the eyes of man! ..."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19013	Deputies! This is the first call on the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19031	Finally, he only wants to take the opposition to the arm, and the Court of Auditors. [[Lively condolences with the liberals.]] We cannot let that happen in this House. [[The speaker again falls into the tone of the commercial spot.]] That's why we're going to make a distrust proposal today – and off!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19073	The next speaker is Mr Edler. I give him the floor to the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19095	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Now you're going to have to put yourself out! You won't have it easy!]] Mr Meischberger! That was a embarrassing idea you gave here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is government!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that you do not notice that, due to the action carried by Federal Minister Caspar, we have fewer dead, less injured, less unhappiness in the families! [[Call to the liberals: This is government advertising! Don't you know the advertising? This is the Minister's advertising!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because of advertising?]] And that's what you're so polemic about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: This is a abuse! A misuse of taxpayers' money!]] Mr Meischberger! They spoke of "Peanuts" in connection with the Committee's work. – All members of the Committee on Transport must feel offended! We've been consulting on road safety for days. We also discussed and discussed all the issues at the last Committee meeting. Or would you like to deal with the Rosenstingl proposal at each meeting? - I don't know. I don't think you can get enough from the Rostingl. That's how it seems to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief comment on the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rules of Procedure for Danube Shipping. First: We are pleased that a contract has been concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany. Secondly, we welcome the fact that the successor countries of the USSR and the successor countries of the Soviet Union have also been established and that the exclusion of Croatia and Moldova has been given. That is essential to us. I wish the Danube waterway all the best for the future, especially as an important transport gateway for the relocation of heavy road transport from the road to environmentally acceptable modes of transport!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19231	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19252	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what Mr Meischberger has presented to us here should be very thoughtful of all of us. For, Minister of State, you see how strong people are to be influenced by advertising! [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ.]] Think of the hot cargo campaign and let yourself be a lesson! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As for the use of masts, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberals consider this to be an overregulating intervention. We believe that this can be done in the context of the economy itself, and we are also convinced that we in the Committee need to talk seriously about how often the telecommunications law should be changed and how far it is with competition in this area. We are not going to support what is going to be done with the mast division today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19300	The next speaker is Mr Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19321	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Meischberger brought a report on the Committee. In his speech it was a question of finding out what did not happen. This testifies to him – in order to use the expression he himself used – of arrogance and ignorance, which is by himself – as he expressed himself – election advertising. I can tell Meischberger the following: Theophil Hansen was right to rebuild the parliament of the Acropolis. He made two theatres – one for the Meischberger, even though he did not know at the time that the Meischberger was coming into this theatre at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: "Theaters"? You're a theater!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Two Theatres"? – Did you hear that on the Acropolis?]] But this is about the novelle on the telecommunications law, which requires certain network operators to divide masts between each other, if this is technically possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Two Theatres! The "redners" of the ÖVP!]] The federal uniform scheme for the multiple use of transmission masts comes with 1. January 1999 in force. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The "Redners" of the ÖVP!]] - Yes, it is, unfortunately. You can get upset as you want. Look at your minstrels! Yes, it is! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The "redners" of the ÖVP are good "redners"!]] The Telekom Forum, a merger of mobile operators, also sees the so-called site sharing positive. If the operators do not cooperate voluntarily, this law will be effective. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With the "Theaters" it started, and now it stops with the "Sharing"!]] This law obliges mobile operators to tolerate the installation of the competitors' transmitters on their transmission masts as well. [[Abg. Madl: "Competent" means that!]] – No matter what it says, it is true that transmission masts can now also be used by others. According to WHO, about 200 million mobile phones are currently in use worldwide. In 2002, there will be about 750 million. It is understandable that the fear of the population is increasing as a result of this development, namely the fear that the electromagnetic fields of the devices may have health effects. However, it has been found that there is no danger in the case of mobile phones and that in the countries too we have the opportunity to give the passengers a corresponding party position. We will give our approval to this Telecommunication Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19446	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19467	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the discussion on transport policy which is being held here under the agenda will be subject to the day-to-day events in the back. Therefore, let me focus only on one aspect in a stenographic form, i.e. the telecommunications law with its novel. This is a half-hearted innovation. It goes beyond the people's concerns. It does not include an obligation to provide information to the population on the establishment of transmission masts. That is why we shall reject them, and we shall therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! They always want to support the position of the weak. Be on the side of the population this time. It's about information. The Telecommunications Act forbids any communication. We don't want to. Information is the prerequisite for communication. The law is supposed to deserve the title "Communication Law". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19522	I note that Mrs Moser's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. It is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19547	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There are five good reasons to decide on the amateur radio law. Firstly, it is about adapting the legal situation to technical progress that has taken place since the last revision, such as digitisation, authorisation of use and so on. Secondly, the reasons for use have changed. A growing number of users of public institutions – fire brigade, rescue services and the like – have emerged. Thirdly, it is about simplifying the administration by removing the authorisation procedure for amateur radio testing. Fourthly, it is about liberalisation by reducing the age limit from 16 to 14 years for the granting of amateur radio authorisation and by removing the age limit as a prerequisite for the removal of amateur radio testing. Finally, the fifth and last reason is to adapt to international requirements by creating a legal basis for the recognition of amateur radio permits granted abroad and of amateur radio tests carried out abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19587	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19608	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would already be interested, Mr President – and I address this question to you: What is Your opinion on the fact that requests made on the agenda of the Committee on Transport, concerning Brenner-Tout, protection of the whole of Austria from transit traffic, toll-stretching, weekend and holiday bans, have already been missed on the agenda for today's house sitting. Mr President. Who was so far-sighted, who could look into the future and see what will come out at this meeting, which had not yet taken place? I would like an answer to that, Mr President: How can it happen that we already know the results of a committee meeting which has not yet been held, and because of these results which are not yet available, we have already drawn up the agenda for this plenary session? Mr President, I would be very curious about this answer. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Maitz and Head.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, a few things have been going wrong with the so well-caught and so kind Mr Verkehrsminister, and I will list what is going wrong with you, Mr Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger]] In the telecommunications sector, the highest courts rule because your appeal legislation has already led to incredibly confused situations. I only remember the 1,800 frequencies that now employ the highest court. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How many frequencies?]] In addition, you have so far failed to equip the pilots of the transmitters with an effective right of participation, Mr Minister. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Schweitzer! How many frequencies?]] Another failure: Mr Verkehrsminister! They have not yet been able to make any decision on the local transport financing law, which should have been in place for five years. The Federal Transport Plan, Minister for Transport, is not yet in place! You have now presented a "Master Plan" which is even presented by the coalition partner as completely illusory and unfinancial. Mr Verkehrsminister! At European level, you are also mistaken about any attempt to tackle transit problems. The transit contract is completely ineffective because the controls cannot be carried out. Mr Verkehrsminister! Austria, however, was sued for the Brenner-Maut, and the only reaction you have made so far was a cow trade with Commissioner Kinnock, a trade that is under the title of "Maut-Stretching" and will once again fall to the Austrians and once again bring an additional financial burden to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am excited whether Mr Kukacka will deal with this. But you, like Mr Meischberger, as I believe, are investing millions of taxpayers in an advertising campaign, because you are advertising against the traffic of goods on the street, which you are responsible for, because you are not going to do anything in your actual, own task. There were many points in which you have not done anything to date, Minister of Transport. The summit of this legendary series of misdeeds – which has already been discussed today – is a day-to-day discussion throughout Austria, only in Parliament do we not want to talk about it: that you have now been officially confirmed that you are emptying billions into a hole that does not bring any benefit to anyone, Minister of Transport! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is from an expert group that has come to the conclusion that: Hole is not needed, now black on white is presented! And your reaction, Mr. Transport Minister? – You don't care! It will be extended as long as the highest courts do not expressly have the need to stop the construction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Finally, you can interpret this report as the only Austrian even as an approval of this project! I have not met anyone throughout Austria who has also come to this interpretation. All of Austria has interpreted this correctly and has said: Minister of Transport, this is a misplanning. Because there is therefore a sum of errors here, Minister of Transport, this time we see it necessary to make a request concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Science and Transport:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19709	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schweitzer and comrades with regard to the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Science and Transport are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. At the same time I was presented with a written request for § 67 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Members who have been signed request that the vote on this resolution, by which Mr President-in-Office of the Council is to fail to have confidence, be postponed on the second working day. This means that we will not vote after the end of the debate on this motion for a resolution and, today, Thursday, the 26th. ==References====External links== November 24 and not after 28. The vote will take place on November 24th. That is to say, according to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall vote on this motion for a resolution between 0 p.m. and 24 p.m. during Saturday. In the course of the day tomorrow – I will still contact the clubmen – we will advise on what time we will hopefully agree here. Let's go on in the speaker list. The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19747	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is already a particularly strong piece when the freeman, Mr Schweitzer, stands up for this speaker's chair here and thinks that some things are going wrong. [[Call the liberals: "Some"?]] Mr Meischberger even meant talking about a "scandal" – someone who himself was involved in a scandal with lubrications and football money, ladies and gentlemen! [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Mother.]] If you want to see who's doing something wrong, my friend. Ladies and gentlemen, then take a look at the FPÖ Lower Austria. You'd have enough things to do! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Absurd! Absorbed! Don't sit in the glass house and throw stones!]] To the Telekom Act: Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: When does Mr. Habsburg retire? When does Mr. Habsburg resign?]] [[Call to the Freeman: Children in the Third World steal money...!]] I am disappointed that Mr Barmüller thinks it is not good that there is a possibility that the masts can be used by several operators. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I expressly say: Whoever has to do with rescue services, fire brigades and so on can only welcome this law. It brings efficiency, it brings the possibility to save costs. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You can save costs without any law too!]] We should therefore give this law our full support under all circumstances. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also noteworthy in this context that the opinions which are constantly being delivered by the Green Group are also taken into account. It is complained that there is little reason for the people to speak up. It is complained that the masts destroyed the landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, who just took advantage of the mobile phones par excellence in the course of the Lambbach debate? – Your friend of Global 2000, Lothar Lockl! This one has done nothing but constantly coordinate the efforts of the Greens through mobile phones, ladies and gentlemen. This is not going to be the case if you are telephoning by phone, but the masts don't want it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever needs this facility – and we confess to it – will also have to confess that such radio frequency stations can be set up and operated. We agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19859	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19881	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To calm down: I would like to talk about the standard in force on radio certificates which was introduced by regulation over 30 years ago. It is obvious that, in the age of technological innovation, it is necessary to react quickly and efficiently to technical innovations, but also to do so requires the appropriate legal basis. That is why the draft law to be dealt with by us was designed in such a way that only the framework conditions for radio equipment were laid down and the more detailed designs were transferred to the legislator. The redesign of the legal basis for Funker certificates can be outlined by the following keywords: liberal, regional and administrative – more liberal by the removal of training confirmation and reliability as a prerequisite for the exhibition of certificates, regionally by decentralising the examinations and issuing air radios to the authorities of the first instance and more manageable due to the simplifications resulting from the withdrawal of the procedure of admission of training firms, but also by reducing the number of members of the audit commissions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Government template 1250 of the Supplements, the Federal Act on Funker Certificates, was discussed by the Transport Committee and adopted unanimously, taking into account the amendments tabled by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kukacka. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to this draft law in order to take account of progress in radio broadcasting also at a legislative level.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19921	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e19942	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! [[Call to the ÖVP: How many frequencies were these now?]] I would like to say a few words on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberals. Mr Schweitzer has tabled this request, and he has already made clear the "quality" of this request. For if he speaks of the highest courts in the field of telecommunications, however you can read it, then, of course, there is something else there, and that one argues at 1 800 frequencies, then, my Ladies and gentlemen – and of course – is aware of the quality of this request, not one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] [[Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Meschberger: Eighteen hundred frequencies...!]] Mr Schweitzer is not aware of this at all. The fact is that in this area where there is a great deal of money – investments in such a network amount to 12 billion schilling – it can, of course, be used to challenge a legal point. As you have given your opinion on the financing of transport: It is quite clear that a legislative work by which the countries would like to have all power, but which should pay the covenant everything is contentious in which consideration is disputed. As you accuse the Minister for Transport of the fact that the Federal Transport Plan is not available in time, I only say: One is only a minister for one and a half years and after a year and a half as Minister of Transport has presented the "Master Plan" and it has been decided in the government. It cannot therefore be said that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not been informed of this. What you argue about dealing with transit problems is completely wrong, because the electronic ecopoint system works. The fact that someone who has drawn the shorter when he is given is another thing. On the question of Brenner-Tout, we have the problem that our coalition partner has not yet accepted a truck-road pricing. However, I know that the ASFINAG has made its preparations in this regard, and I am convinced that the ÖVP will also go the right way and implement the truck-road pricing very quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What does that have to do with the Brenner-Tout?]] As far as the advertising campaign is concerned, this, Mr Schweitzer, is not directed against the transport of goods as such, but rather is aimed at moving goods to the rails. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You don't know each other at all! What does that have to do with the Brenner-Tout?]] This is a transport policy goal that we are fully committed to. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You're fighting all the time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20031	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20052	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Meischberger said that the Committee had a "scandal" to play. There can be no talk of that at all. If we postpone requests from the liberals, this is not a scandal, but it is only in the interest of these requests, because they will be discussed at a time that will be really relevant to these issues, namely at a time when the Court of Auditors' report on the Semmering Base Tunnel issue is already in place. This was not available at the time, now it is present, and now we are going to discuss it, Mr President. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The Master Plan – You are right – is not a master plan with God, and we have many critical objections to it. But it is not the time to discuss it now, but we will discuss it when the opinions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Federal Railway and the countries are there. Then we will discuss this "Master Plan", then we will put it on the scales, and then we will see what it weighs. At the moment, he weighs too easily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the subject of toll we will talk – and more often than once – when Switzerland's contractual negotiations with the European Union are concluded, because this has a very important impact on us. There are currently no new facts. But if there are new facts that will be important for us and for Austria and for the consequences of our transport policy, we will of course discuss them. Mr Meischberger! They have said that today's discussion of the Amateur Radio Act and the Funker-Zeugnisgesetz on "Peanuts" will be discussed. I would like to say to you: Yes, there are more important laws – but that nobody is interested is really not right! This is a qualification of those groups of society for which these laws are very important. That is why it is also important and necessary for us to discuss and decide today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short, to your motion for a resolution: We do not agree with the concrete realization and the implementation of the Semmering base tunnel, so that this is also clarified. We believe that very many mistakes and failures have been made in this context. We will also have to discuss this. And all those who bear political responsibility will have to acknowledge this clearly and clearly to the public. In any case, we from the EIA take the Court of Auditors' report very seriously, and we will therefore seriously discuss it. He is also, in a certain way, a deficit catalogue of social-democratic transport policy, in which four transport ministers were or are already involved. And we see it as particularly serious that important National Council resolutions on this subject have not been respected by these transport ministers. And we're going to question that very critically!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20120	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Kukacka regrets that there is nothing going on in transport policy, I wonder why he is constantly voting with this Minister. And then I also wonder why MP Khol goes out of here and embraces the Minister, but at the same time makes a mood against this minister in the "Kronen Zeitung". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – Mr Khol, something is wrong! Ladies and gentlemen! This "Master Plan" would have been worth discussing in the Committee. The three impoverished pages, presented by Transport Ministers One, are probably not worth the paper on which this "Master Plan" is written – whatever it is supposed to be –! Ladies and gentlemen! The "Kronen Zeitung" has today completely right titled: "Whatever anyone says, that's all wrong..." That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our request for distrust against the Federal Minister is justified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also Mr Khol and Mr Kukacka should come and clean up in their own ranks once in a while in their party! For it is not enough, Mr Kukacka, that you say here: You have to discuss it, it's all completely wrong. – Who speaks the head of the state Klasnic once properly in the conscience? Because what this lady shows is anything but a fair and clean transport policy! Mrs Klasnic has ordered a secret opinion from Price Waterhouse, because she felt that this Semmering base tunnel would stimulate the Styrian economy colossally. Mr Verkehrs Spokesperson from ÖVP! This study is now under way, and it becomes clear that nothing will look out! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can make up now. I have taken an insight into this study and it is clear that there is nothing for the Styrian economy to look out. It's a single evidence of poverty! And that's why this rescue attempt in relation to the Semmering Base Tunnel has been a shot in the knee; he went into emptiness! That is why this transport policy and the woman's country's main wife are at the end. That is why this Minister is at the end, and that is why this motion of censure is more than justified. I ask you: Let's put an end to this evil game!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20202	No one is reporting on this. That is why the debate is closed. The wish for a final word on the part of the rapporteur is not available to me. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately between the various requests. – I ask for attention! First of all, we are voting on the draft law on amateur radio law 1998 and the title and receipt in 1497 of the supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law at second reading give a sign. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the presentation, to give a sign on this matter. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law on Funker-Zeugnisgesetz 1998, together with the title and receipt in 1498 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill in second reading give a sign. – This was unanimously decided at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. . I note that the proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty concerning the Additional Protocol of 26 March. Adopted by the Commission on 20 March 1998 on the arrangements applicable to shipping on the Danube and the signing protocol in 1220 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to express this approval to give a sign on this point. – Authorisation shall be granted unanimously. We now proceed to the vote on the draft law concerning the second TKG-Novelle and the title and receipt in 1468 of the Supplements. I should also like to ask that the ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal in second reading give a sign. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. I note that this proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1496. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution, which is annexed to the Committee's report, to give a sign. This resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 149.) The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gabriela Moser and others on research offensive and information requirements in the field of GSM base stations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority, so the motion for a resolution is rejected. What the honourable Member's motion for a resolution may be. Schweitzer, Mag. I have already pointed out that the vote is not taking place now, but that it has to take place on the second working day. In other words, it is – to clarify this again – on 28 October. To vote on this motion for a resolution between 0 and 24 a.m. [[See 151. Meeting of the NR, p. 14ff.]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 924/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, Dr. Johannes Jarolim and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on International Private Law (1483 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20336	Now we're moving to the 17th. Agenda item. I would like to make a statement by Mrs Dr. Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! – However, there is no more speaking time available. Therefore, there is no word message. That concludes the debate. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1483 of the supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law show this by means of a sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading give a sign of this. I note that the draft law was also adopted at third reading. As far as the debate on the time of the vote on the motion for a resolution of the Liberals is concerned, I have made sure that it is useful to hold a short presidential meeting for tomorrow at 10.45 a.m. Mr Neisser will hold the presidency during this period. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-11-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00149_d7e20390	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made for 942/A to 963/A and Questions Nos 5225/J to 5271/J were received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 27. November, 9 a.m. The agenda is available in writing and has been distributed in the hall. The next meeting will begin with a Question Time. Today's sitting is closed.
