ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2595	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 134 for some time. Meeting of the National Council. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Kammerlander, Wenitsch and Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2626	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 4030/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2787	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a short debate on the reply 4030/AB to Question 4334/J by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Hofmann concerning the planned increase in the basic tax by the Federal Minister for Finance. This short debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2811	I would also like to point out before the entry into the agenda that Mrs Magistrate is speaking. Stoisits has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to it on application 420/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the B-VG, a period of time until 16. ==References== In this context, a brief debate has also been put forward on this request for a deadline. This desire shall be accepted. This second short debate will follow up with the debate on the reply just announced. I don't have any other desire. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2842	As far as the agenda is concerned, it is proposed that points 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 6 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 and 16 as well as 17 to 20 of today's agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Mr Wabl agrees. That is why we can proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2871	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of today's session and the duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been envisaged, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126, Freeman 117, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal in the plenary session? – This is not the case, then it is so decided. 1. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1229 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Amendment of the University Study Law (1349 of Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Science and Research on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of the University Centre for Further Education, called the Danube University Krems (1350 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (1228 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Organization of the Universities of the Arts (KUOG) (1352 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2926	We come to points 1 to 3, on which the debate is being held under one. Does one of the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the discussions. The first speaker was Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e2954	Mr President. Minister of Science! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the solemn ceremony in the Reichsratshalle on the fishing of the Federal President, we are now continuing the discussion of the agenda. On the agenda are the drafts for the recast of the university study law or the integration of the provisions of the original Kunsthochschule study law into the matter of the university study law and the Kunstuniversitätsorganisationsgesetz. On the side of the liberal opposition, I can express the agreed opinion that the intention of both legislative bodies is perceived as correct. Already in the provisions of the State Basic Law there is a level playing field between science, research and art. The integration of the provisions of the Kunsthochschule Studiengesetz and the adaptation of the provisions of the Kunsthochschule Studiengesetz and the integration into the University's Studiengesetz and thus the creation of equality also correspond to the requirement of the Constitution. Overall, it is quite welcome that the art universities may now call themselves "art universities". The fact that it not only remains with these labels, but that the essential provisions have also been equally incorporated into the provisions of the University Study Act is essentially in order. However, it remains a wormhead drop, which is to be objected or lamented here. The first drafts, the ministerial drafts, were quite in order from the point of view of the Freedom Party. But it has not taken long, and there has been objections, in particular by the Public Service Trade Union. These were not objective objections, but only objections worn by – I do not even want to say – group interests or group egoisms, but by the individual egoism of a representative of the public service trade union, that is, Professor Breunlich, who has tried to impress the law on those stamps which continue to enable him to maintain his pledges in an unblemished and unhindered form. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the regret of this bill, and I cannot defend the impression that the Minister is also the opinion of the FPÖ. It is unfortunate that, in particular, the ÖVP in the person of the scientific speaker, Professor Dr. Lukesch, has been stressed in front of the individual interests of this professor Breunlich. For, ladies and gentlemen, his reflections on his own faculty and on keeping his course in study are nowhere to be approved. Even from his own high school of music and performing art there have been dissenting statements. ==References====External links== In July 1998, before the division of the faculty, which Professor Breunlich advocated for himself, was challenged. Or, for example, the University of Music in Vienna is also taking a vehemence against this particular interest. Or the Austrian University of Applied Sciences Committee: It is also noted that the chairman of the Federal Department of Higher Education, Professor Breunlich, is clearly caught in his dual function as trade unionist and department head. Finally, the rectors of the six art universities are directed against this individual interest of Professor Breunlich. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the wormhead drop we have to object to. Fortunately, Professor Breunlich has not fully enforced himself, although the compromise – I say quite openly – is a lazy compromise and is not legislative. This law gives individual universities the opportunity to decide for themselves a division of faculty. This is not the only requirement, but it is still necessary to demonstrate an increase in efficiency and a corresponding regulation of the Minister. I believe that this increase in efficiency can never be demonstrated in practice, so that it is obviously dead law from the outset. But Mr. Lukesch can take a stand before Professor Breunlich and say: I've been involved in your mind, and that's the compromise that came out. In the end, Professor Breunlich is also obviously concerned that he collects his dean's allowance. These are at least 168 000 S under this Regulation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] This should also be one of the reasons why one has capitulated, at least in part, before this individual interest. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the democratization which the President of the Federal Government has just spoken about in the Reichsratssssäal; this is not the imagination he has spoken of in connection with the further development of science and research, if one makes room for the individual interest again on this route, and if all the statements of the rectors, the high school, the rectors, can only say one party colleague to another: I have been committed to the enforcement of your interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to remind you, in particular, as a Member of Linz: The study of industrial design at the Linz University of Design – now the University of Art and Design – is rightly not intended as a study of the arts, Mr. Federal Minister, but as an engineering study – rightfully because the technical and natural scientific side of this study has undisputed priority. Therefore, the urgent request has been made by the University of Art and Design in Linz – and I would like to present it here and support it in the form of an amendment request – that the graduates of the Industrial Design course are also equipped with a corresponding title compatible in Europe, not with the Magister der Künste, Mag. artium, because the technical, the scientific side has priority. In the end, this finds its precipitation in the fact that it is an engineering study. Professor Meru agreed. He has said that it will bring disadvantages to the graduates in international competition, who not only understand themselves as an artist, but who focus on industrial design. This is also the reason why Members from Krüger and colleagues tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also appeal to my Upper Austrian colleagues. I believe that Mr Koppler will also be pleased that this title, which is urgently needed, is in line with this demarcation. We need this regulation for our students in Upper Austria, which is an urgent request to you. And there is no one here to say that the University of Applied Arts in Vienna would be in the head, because, Mr. Lukesch – I would like to maintain this factual discussion – if someone wants to devote more to the arts, then he can choose the art study of the design, then he does not have to choose the scientific or engineering study of industrial design. I therefore call on you to agree to this subject-matter amendment and, in this sense, to give your vote today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3074	The amendment tabled by Dr. Krüger, Dr. Povysil, Dr. Graf and colleagues has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3098	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Austrian art universities, the "universities of the arts", as they will soon be called, are characterized by a high quality and an internationally very good reputation. They combine this with a rather high amount of human and financial effort and are currently working on an obsolete legal basis which does not allow it to participate in the development of more autonomy. In Austria, we need to catch up in the artistic field of education, which is what the mediation of the arts is about, not least because – different from one degree – up to half of the graduates later work in the educational field. In the field of educational education, we have a need for replenishment, which leads to the artistic level and certain parallel structures. There is a need for reform. I am allowed to do so from a discussion of the 2nd. In May 1996, organised by the ÖH, a brief quote was made. Robert Temel says that we don't actually have an art university – this is a Vienna art college – but in our case it consists of 22 small art schools that exist alongside each other. To eliminate this side-by-side and also to compensate for these shortcomings are the ideas behind these two laws. Originally, it was planned to install a joint study. There is now the construction of many similarities between artistic and pedagogical education, but students will be able to decide for themselves in which area they focus from the beginning. It is crucial for the art universities to be able to decide independently on their study plans in future, just like all other universities. They can make their own requirements regarding their quality, and they, as well as the universities, are encouraged by the University of StG and the UOG to constantly verify their efficiency. We have relatively strong guidelines for the collegial institutions and in daily practice a great scope for action for so-called monocrats, i.e. for rectors, deans, institute presidents and so on. With this law, however, we have created the basis for this – that is crucial – that the universities of the arts can take on much more responsibility for their actions than has been the case so far. I can quote from the study of the Ministry of Science "Models of Artistic Education in Europe" by Mrs. Kósa. She writes: "But the most important prerequisite for actual change is that the art universities themselves can activate themselves and assume responsibility for their development." This will happen with these laws. As a Socialist Group in the field of organisational law, we have partly had different ideas about the accessibility of various academic functions in the field of art universities. This applies in particular to the accessibility of medium-sized buildings. The result of this discussion is ahead of you. This means that the function of the rector as well as the function of the board of directors is in principle accessible to the medium-sized building industry. There is a veto right of the professor's curie in the function of the board of directors. The function of the dean of study is essentially reserved to the professors. In my opinion, this is a very appropriate solution. On the issue of the future division of the faculty, a topic which has also been addressed by Mr Krüger: I say openly that I do not think we need this. This corresponds to my conviction and also to that of my group. On the other hand: Would it be useful to bring about an approximation between the UOG and the Art High School Organization Act and to insist that they may under no circumstances have faculties and not at all provide for such? In my opinion, allowing such opportunities is better than refusing under precisely described restrictive conditions. It is also important not to overestimate organizational issues, and the internal organization must ultimately choose each university for itself. In addition, it is necessary to confirm the proof of efficiency of the university curriculum. If the argument is true, which has been put forward by a number of art universities or by a person – you mentioned them – in particular, that the division in faculties would be the more efficient solution, then a corresponding proof will be to be provided. If this is not the case, then there will not be a division of faculty. A long-term reform process will be completed today. I would like to thank you very much for the constructive discussions, especially with the employees in the department. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think they also deserve to be called, because this work was very difficult. Thank you very much. Mayer, Mag. Perle, Dr. Bast, Mag. Klemmer, Dr. Matzenauer, section head Höllinger and also colleagues Wertgarner and Weißenburg in the ministerial office. They have really been involved in this area on the scale. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the universities themselves for this discussion process. He was strenuous for us, but very instructive. We have gained many valuable insights. These laws are not, as we sometimes hear from the speaker's desk, a small step in the right direction, but they are a decisive act for the achievement of equality of art and science and for a reform of the universities of the arts, so that they can carry on into the next millennium their outstanding reputation, which they currently hold internationally. We create the legal conditions for the implementation of the university itself. I am confident, however, that, because of the many discussions, they will also bring this restructuring process to a good end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3184	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3205	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that there is a matter for the House, which I actually welcomed in the original version. It was the approximation of the universities of the arts to the UOG 93 with the realization of autonomy. This means that the adoption of autonomous statutes, planning posts, financial allocations to institutions and appeal procedures has, so to speak, been relocated as competence. This, of course, leads to a variety of design options at universities. I also found the procedure to be exemplary: First of all, we have been informed in long discussions in order to create a first draft. Afterwards, after a very violent disput, which was partly carried out with signature campaigns and full-page advertisements in the media, a second draft was accordd with. Federal Minister! I believe you should be praised. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] I've been thinking that it's not you I want to praise. I'm sure you're in my way. I would like to thank Mrs Mayer, who, in my opinion, has made a great deal of effort to prepare a good law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to thank you for this commitment. I wish such officials in all departments. But now to that point I regret you, Minister of State. I regret that you belong to a political group which agrees that the ÖVP is pursuing particular interests. The ÖVP strives to achieve a personalised legislation. At the last meeting, we created a law for 39 people in this country. Now we are making an amendment that has been agreed between the SPÖ and the ÖVP representatives and is actually due to the desire of a man. I don't think that's a good thing. Federal Minister! With such individualized laws, I mean the possibility of creating faculties which is absolutely not necessary. The parties themselves have said in large majority that they do not want to do so at all. Federal Minister! You yourself have said that, as long as you are Federal Ministers, you will certainly not recognize the need. I am obliged to thank you. It is really true that the efforts to congratulate a handful of individuals result in the fact that you have to make personalized law novels. Professor Lukesch! I would like you to keep us for as long as possible, so that every time we have successors and post-occupies, we can be re-adjusted and a personal note always comes into each law, so that as many as possible can be satisfied. I do not think this is the competence of a Parliament. In fact, Parliament should be limited to legislating when necessary and applicable to the widest possible extent. Individual laws, as they are obviously sought, are certainly not what we want. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] To some aspects of the draft law, which have not been so successful, I still agree with some comments. On the one hand, this concerns the field of film. It is quite plausible that the film cannot, as it were, be a subject of study. Because the task of a cameraman is certainly a completely different one from that of a director. In my opinion, as soon as the experience and evaluations of the first phase of this new study are available, a re-adjustment should be made. In the artistic-theoretical field, I see some possibilities for expansion. Mr Krüger's comments on industrial design I must say that I do not see this as such. For me, an industrial designer is actually an artist who has technical understanding. I do not wish this to be a technician with an artistic understanding. I think it is very important that an industrial designer approach matter as an artist and free from the constraints and standards found in a very technical world. Because matter is to bring design into the technical world. That is why I believe that we are creating the title of power. should try artium. In my opinion, the Krems proposals on streamlining the Bureau – a matter that is now also being debated – are a good proposal. I would like to support this proposal. However, to support the particular interests of the ÖVP, I also have a concern. Federal Minister! I quote the OTS of the ÖVP of 10. June, obviously a text that has been agreed with you, Professor Lucisch. There is under "University of the Arts in Innsbruck": "This has ultimately succeeded because ÖVP-Klubobmann Khol has his home in Tirol." . I am pleased that Mr Klubobmann Khol has a very nice home. I can only congratulate you on this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You come from Tyrol too! You're half Tyrolean too!]] Of course, I congratulate you on that too. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Your father was always very proud to be a half a Zillertaler!]] I'm like that, too, Mr. Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then don't criticize Tirol!]] I'm not criticizing Tyrol. I just praised it. I said you have a very nice home. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that 36 years have been trying to set up a medical faculty in Salzburg. Do you transfer to Salzburg to ensure that Salzburg receives a medical faculty, or does a clubman need another group to lead to the establishment of a medical faculty? I criticise the fact that it obviously depends on a person's place of residence as a key element in the creation of important facilities in this place. This is actually the objectionable access that the colleagues from the ÖVP have. You should be aware that you should make laws for as many people as possible and not pursue particular interests. They should be resistant to this. I know that you think it is wonderful if you deform laws in such a way that they no longer meet their original goal. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We can't start universities anymore, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you have anything against the art in Tyrol? We are making it the way the majority of the National Council wants it! You won't dictate anything out of your minority position!]] You were not in committee, Mr. Cot, you were not in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But I have followed the negotiations in committee very closely!]] The Committee has all felt that we do not need this amendment. But since this is so massively demanded by a group, this is simply accepted. The Minister even says we don't need it. I do not see why we should give in to a small group of people to enforce their particular interests and what costs more, namely the additional establishment of deanates. That's what I don't understand. I didn't actually want to quote it, but you give up a person who has the following functions according to this list: She is a member of the Space Commission, the Staff Commission and the Appeal Commission. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The very normal activities of a professor!]] Where is this person still a member everywhere? – It's incredible. This man, of course, has all the threads in his hand and can force anything he wants. This person you give up. I find that incorrect in the process. I would have liked us to be able to agree to this law. Because of the development that this law has taken recently, I am unfortunately unable to agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3342	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3364	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If I listen to the opposition speakers in this way, I will be really proud and get a new perspective of my meaning. [[Abg. Böhacker: But not overestimated, my colleague.]] Mrs Gredler! But I can tell you something: What we represent at this point is not the interests of a single man, but the interests of the ÖVP and the art in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you criticize my clubman and me that we have been particularly committed to creating a new location in the form of the University of the Arts in Innsbruck, then I do not understand you at all. There are no critical voices in Tyrol. There have been plans in this field for ten years to set an artistic focus in Tyrol. If you knew the history of our country a little, you would have to know that from 15th century onwards. ==References====External links== The city of Tyrol has been a center of Europe's cultural life. We want to go back to this tradition. We are glad and proud that we have succeeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today is a solemn day in Parliament. We have just followed the fishing observation of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. I am very grateful to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for mentioning also the science, art and culture of our country, among the main concerns he will pursue. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] So these laws are under a very good star. We can also take a little of the mood of this celebration in the National Council, because I believe that the two-year commitment, which is now two years long, has been very worthwhile in the sense of an equivalence of art and culture. Austria is known for its art and culture. They shape our image abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! We were involved in this – I refer to the contributions that my manuscript and the ÖVP representatives carry in the Scientific Committee – not about any equalizing, i.e. not about beating art and science on the same lines or even bringing art into the university field in the walls of science. No, no, no, Mr Krüger correctly said that art and science are important areas of Austrian identity and are under the same protection and freedom under the basic law. It was about emancipating art as art towards science. That was successful. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I now come to the criticism of the adaptation of organisational law and, in part, of study law, which was ultimately carried out in the course of the discussion. This is where the accusation is made that, in particular, my group or I would have followed only the dictatorship or the will of a representative of the University of Music in Vienna. I reject this and reject this allegation. We have as many letters as we call for the possibility of setting up faculties, as well as writing that goes on to say that they would not be needed. Mrs Gredler! I do not understand you as a liberal at all if you are criticizing this point. They know that it is a matter of allowing faculties as opportunities and in addition providing universities with an organisational degree of freedom, if, because of their better – I quote Hayek – they can prove local knowledge that this would be the more efficient and better solution in terms of education, but also the further development of art. As a member of the ÖVP, I simply refuse to give up this local knowledge and to condone a well-deserved official as you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this university study law, certain hours of training in the form of courses have also been reduced, for the MAS – Master of Advanced Studies – and for the MBA. We've done this well and done it after careful examination. In the interest of artistic training, such courses are not least concerned with creating a larger market for the high quality of artistic education at our art universities. At the same time, however, we have noted that this hourly quota refers exclusively to supervised teaching units. In my opinion, we will remain internationally competitive at 800 hours for an MBA in supervised form. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of these two laws has already been mentioned several times. I believe that the free and very flexible framework conditions that exist at our universities are only necessary for art. Mr Krüger! "Time their art, art their freedom." – In this sense, we want to understand these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3435	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3457	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you are travelling abroad and are confronted with the conditions and reputation of Austria as a study and research country, you are always proud of Austria – you have to say that honestly. The reputation of our universities, universities and research institutions is an international one. I always do well when I'm confronted with it. Not least because of this, I am very satisfied with the law to be passed today. In my opinion, the necessary basis for this will be further improved by the process of giving art universities a new form of organisation, which will, in any case, be better suited to this already good reputation. Nothing speaks against it at all. The Greens are happy about this. I would like to point this out in a very specific way. I would like to maintain the shortcomings of the UOG in 1993, and also the criticism we have made in the National Council. The KUOG agrees. However, this does not change the fact that the democratisation of academic institutions and the creation of a better organisational basis are positive. Above all, it is also a very positive development that the improvement of the standing, the situation of medium-sized buildings at the art universities is sought. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, however, it is obviously not possible to do things that are completely undisputed. I am not an expert in this field, but those are not the 182 other Members either. Because of my knowledge, which I have acquired so far, this seems to me to be something that has come about relatively consensually and in the literal sense also constructively through development. – Professor Lukesch may be an expert. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: A little expert!]] I have thus taken this from the opinions, the assessment procedure and the other documents received as Members of Parliament. In the following course, however, the matter becomes, in a sense, Austrian. Nothing can be perfect in Austria, nothing can really be done properly. Nothing must be the same as the actual intention. Then there is a result that the colleague Niederweiser, whom I so highly esteemed, described as follows: When it comes to the possibility of division of the faculty at art universities, admission would be better than refusal, and organisational questions should not be overrated. – What he says is on and on. But it is no longer right for you to think and think about the sort of "Austrian" that this means in Austria. In Austria, this very wording, which he used, means yielding to individual interests. It simply points out – I say as a non-union member of the Public Service Trade Union – what position the trade union or individual have. They are a power factor that is not to be overlooked. In general terms, from the perspective of employee representatives and stakeholders, this is not a negative thing either. Mr Niederweiser! But for the effects that this entails, I have no sympathy and no understanding. I do not understand that the government, together with those concerned, is initially taking a stand in a well-organized will-making and decision-making process. But then someone comes – admittedly he belongs to a political group – and in the last second there are additional possibilities that no one wants and needs, which we have been subject to for months in advance. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This means that you allow things through this law, which de facto may reintroduce the old structure. That's essentially it. If you don't want to, you don't write it in. These are very clear, clean and also appropriate possibilities for the intention of the law. That is why, I am so sorry – not only I, but also Mr Oellinger, when he is present at the vote, and Mrs Gredler – I cannot accept this draft law. For it is important that this very criticism is presented in Parliament in order to also indicate what possibilities – and I mean traps – you will allow for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Since art in Austria as a whole has such a positive and high importance and Austria, as an art and culture country, has a much higher importance internationally – I do not want to devalue it – because as an industrial or agricultural country, which now has nothing to do with the quality of the products, but simply that we, as a small country, have to present ourselves with these ideal values disproportionately in the world, the attention we give to training is also so important. In my opinion, therefore, you would be well advised to leave your finger or, in a way, the spring and stick to the old structure of your project at the last second. I have no objections to the other two legislative proposals, which are now also being voted. The fact that the Lower Austrians have their Danube university is very sympathetic to me. Danube University – that sounds really good and I like it. What is perhaps linked to individual interests of countries is quite legitimate. The fact that this can naturally go in a direction that goes a little too far shows the fact of a possible art university in Innsbruck. This is not a downestimation of the federal state of Tyrol. Professor Khol! I hear this for the first time, I'm astounded. Maybe something will get out of it once, strict yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3505	Mr Stippel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3527	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== Meeting of the XVIII. ==References====External links== On March 1, 1994, the Federal Law establishing the University Centre for Further Education, named "Donau-Universität Krems". I can quote from my speech at the time: "We MEPs and all those involved in the preparation of this law were faced with two options: either to create a university institution that represents a university – then we would not have to decide on a law today, because then the UOG would have been fully valid and would be fully the legal basis for the establishment of the Danube University in Krems – or to create something completely new, to put a new institution into the Austrian educational landscape. We have opted for the second, and therefore it is necessary to create its own legal basis..." – citations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We then raised a child in Lower Austria, so to speak, and expected that this child would quickly mature to the man or woman. – Unfortunately, this has not developed according to our expectations. This started with the Bureau. The law provided for a tripartite presidium. After a few months the President has come to an end, a Vice-President in autumn 1996, so that until today only one Vice-President has been left, but he has not succeeded in making this child a woman or a man. Ladies and gentlemen, only a few figures are given here: In 1997/1998 there were only 387 students. The budget for these 387 students was at least 113 million schilling, with 67 million being spent by public authorities. Thus, a study site at the Danube University costs about 290 000 S. The places in Krems are therefore one of the most expensive in Austria, if they are not even the most expensive. A working group will now be set up in the Ministry to submit proposals for a reorganisation of this institution over the next two years. But we cannot wait so long to implement a revision of this law, because time is pressing for two reasons: First of all, the re-casting of the leadership must be carried out by tendering, and we want to change the law to ensure that there is only one president or president instead of a bureau in the future. However, in the event of a prevention, an alternate – in the rank of a department leader – should carry out his duties. It must be informed at least once a month of all major business cases. That is the four-eye principle we want to preserve. The second point is that the withdrawal of the AHStG means that the studies mentioned in this Federal Act can no longer be offered. Therefore, a rapid legal adjustment is necessary in such a way that we today have to decide on the implementation of university courses according to § 23 to 25 UniStG including the award of academic degrees.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3578	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3599	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, I am particularly grateful to you today. Since the meeting of the Federal Assembly, we know that you will receive massive support from the Federal President – so to speak, the Minority Square from Ballhausplatz. So it seems as if this local is also condensing to an objective close relationship. As a result, I am delighted to speak only about the Danube University. In spite of these announcements of competence, you, Mr. Federal Minister, will not be spared, so to speak, to pull the cart out of the Danube: from the slick, which has been gradually stored there especially at the Krems/Stein-Ufer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I would like to mention data, I would like to add it seamlessly to the statements made by Mr Vorsprecher. But now I would rather light the background to show what is probably not going to happen again today: Krems has not become state capital, so the city should get a university. A tobacco factory was free, so the building had to be used elsewhere. There were enough habilitated and non-habilitated university teachers who sought an additional or main merit. Of course, there was enough room for the administrative staff in this former tobacco factory. In summary, these circumstances have provided a fine opportunity to set up something. So what do you do? – You first make a national academy. Federal Minister! With the idea of the Danube University appeared on the horizon – transmitted: so to speak, at the source of the mouth of the Danube – that is, in your ministry, the great hope that you could make something better out of it. Because what the Landesakademie did was actually nothing but an initiative for a "transport company", in order to drive teachers and listeners from Vienna to Krems and, of course, back again – and that, although everyone knows that one can go to the Heurigen in Vienna and therefore does not have to go to the Wachau. So this Danube University appears on the horizon. And what will it do? - There's nothing going on again. At least there is no university, but it will be a long legal term. This has now been seen and begins with an "immens" correction: In order to increase legal certainty, especially in the case of legal information, a short description is added: "DUK." You'll probably speak German and not say "Duck" in memory of Donald Duck's duck family. So it's going to be the "DUK" from the "Donau University". Mr Krüger, I could actually report to the Council: If he's planning something for Linz, it doesn't have to be a university. Michel, you can calmly do something else, we just call it "Traun University", because the name "Donau" – Linz an der Donau – has unfortunately already been awarded for Krems in this context. Or do we think of Oberhollabrunn – in the sense of Schnitzler's "Professor Bernardi" I don't want to name any place, invent only one: The Oberhollabrunn educational institution would then be the "Oberholla University" [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. colleague, would you like to take over the rectorate in the "Oberholla"?]] Mr. Federal Minister! As you know, there was an MBA course in Krems, in the form of a Ges.m.b.H.; with him, courts have been involved. There was a third president who left. There was a second president who left. How does what we do today read? – "The management of the daily business of a university through a collegial body is very difficult in practice to comply with." – That means, in theory, only in practice is it not possible. And if the Presidents have already come to an end, we'll just make a president out of what's left, so to speak. I don't mention this now either from irony or not to evaluate it somehow, but: This is obviously the case, as no second or third President will find himself going there. That's what we're actually at the heart of the matter: This institution lacks a reputation. In other words, Mr Stippel has said this very politely, I say it now with a combined key word: It was a dead birth. Minister! It will really be time – and I ask you to do something about it. This should not happen within the next two years, but as quickly as possible. As far as the legal system is concerned: We don't have enough to drag this out with small cosmetic operations. We wish ourselves a Danube University, which is really a university. – Otherwise you can return to the cigarette factory. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3658	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3679	Mr President. High house! I would also like to say a few words on two of the issues raised so far. I think that the reorganisation of the high-school areas of art, both of the organization and of the right to study, is indeed a reason to be satisfied today. After long and detailed discussions with all those who are interested and committed in this field, we have been able to present a concept and to discuss it together in the relevant committee, which brings the integration of the previous universities of the arts into the system of the UOG and into the system of university law of study and establishes the universities of the arts in Austria. This ensures equality, as is particularly required by students for years, also for graduates. I am concerned that not only in Sunday's speeches, we are talking about Austria and its students having a special close relationship with the art that Austria is a great power of the arts. It is important to me that the graduates of such studies can also gain a serious, equivalent and university basis for their later life. The conditions for this will be created with the draft legislation in force today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think we should also see that, in today's proposals for decision-making, it is a question of extending the autonomy which has so far been valid for universities to the future universities of the arts. We are convinced that it is appropriate for universities to have a minimum degree of self-designability within the organisational framework. Therefore, it is a consistent step to give this framework to the universities of the arts as well. It is also a matter of taking a further step in terms of the capacity or capacity of management functions in universities. We have not been able to enforce the entire reform that we have proposed, but we are taking a step further. This step goes in the direction that universities themselves, i.e. the electorate within the universities, can decide, yes, who should be the most appropriate executives to carry out the management functions within these universities. We have therefore also opened up the function of the rector to other groups of the so-called middle building. On the question raised in the statements by the chairman of the Scientific Committee, but also by other speakers, I would like to say in principle the following: We have carried out two consultations under very, very dedicated work of the officials of my home. We have tried to achieve as much agreement as possible, especially with those concerned themselves. But – and I also give this to bear in mind – of course this draft law was before it reached Parliament and after that, the basis of negotiations and discussions with the public service trade union, in particular the section of higher education teachers. I think it was also good that we did that. It is not only about the right of organisation, but also about the right of service of those concerned in further consequence. I recognize that the trade unions in Austria are the representatives of the workers – also in the public service. That is why we have to negotiate with their representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In these negotiations, it is necessary to make compromises. Let me say at least one word about it – I wonder that this was seen differently in the speeches today –: Parliamentary democracy, democracy as a whole, lives by trying to find solutions together. Common solutions require that one is ready and able to make compromises. Of course, compromises are not the desired result that the individual has presented himself. You have your own idea of how things should be regulated if you can regulate them yourself and on your own. But I fully agree that, if we want to find a common basis, we must also make compromises. Of course, they must not destroy the matter themselves. What we have proposed in terms of organizational law today is the optional establishment of faculties also at the universities of the arts. That is why this concept has been created. No one forces us to do such a thing, except for insight. As long as this insight doesn't exist, we won't. And if she is present, then – I promise you – we will do it. I think we should also have a minimum degree of respect for this type of dealing with other views. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say one last thing about the question of the Danube University of Krems. I do not want to talk about the history of the Danube University, but about the perspectives and experiences we have had with the living Danube University. The Danube University is a special instrument of university education: a university that has so far concentrated exclusively on the field of education. I think that no one in the House will argue that the provision of qualified training – whether after secondary education or post-secondary training – is becoming increasingly important. We must be aware that the exclusive focus on basic training is wrong. The more and more dynamic the world is changing, the more necessary it is to make accompanying training opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Danube University has been established as an educational university, but – that is right – it has some acceptance problems with the other universities, so-called large or basic education. I think it is worth considering this question a little closer and asking what the reasons are. The same universities, which were not really willing to cooperate with the Danube University, were, if necessary, very willing to use parts of their teachers for the Danube University. In other words, The same people were willing to engage as teachers at the Danube University, but also, if necessary, to act as critics. It is either to find a basis for this cooperation – or to change the concept of the Danube University. What we do not want – I am expressing this – is a "dwarf," which is training against the resistance of all other universities. We want the other universities to understand that training is also necessary there, and we want cooperation with the Danube University as an appropriate institution for this. We have therefore set up a temporary project phase in which we can either achieve this cooperation with the other 18 universities, as they will be called in the future – or we will transform the Danube University into a full university, probably in the economic field. The next two years will probably take place in order to make the necessary preparations for the further development of the Danube University of Krems. The following is certain: The Danube University Krems, the location Krems will be preserved as a university location. And it should also be remembered that the Danube University has worked quite exemplaryly in many areas, especially as regards the equipment with controlling instruments and business management, in the time of its existence. The other universities can take a look at that. You know that, but I'd like to mention it today. High house! I think we should continue to develop the educational institutions that we have and continue to critically review their achievements, but we should not condemn them. Rather, we should help them fulfill their task.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3776	Thank you, Minister of State. I call Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3800	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to come to an issue that has been working on me all the time in connection with this law. This point has also often fallen – and I believe that it has often been misinterpreted. In the course of this legislative process, the fundamental problem was never to be found at the universities in the field of visual design, but only in the field of music. Of course, that also has a reason and also a story. The basic intensification of the first draft of this law was almost total schooling: The virtuoso, the music teachers and the future discourse with this topic should be "assembled together". – I would just like to say: These are basically three different training variants and, of course, three fundamentally different types of people thinking. Why were these problems not in the visual field? – In the visual field, the trade is not in the foreground – in the music, on the other hand, very well! There is no virtuoso that does not control the instrument. This must be learned once. Of course, music universities and individual lessons serve this purpose. This means, however, that, on the one hand, teacher training and on the other, training must be offered to highly competitive virtuosos. Again, I would like to say: These are two different pairs of shoes. In this context, talking about a "Lex Breunlich" is, let's say, profoundly, not quite correct. Because I know innumerable professors from the concert panel who, with hands and feet, refused to do this "mix". The argument to be able to raise the level of IGP can also be turned around – and you did! They said that this would reduce or lower the level of the concert subject. I think that the law, as it now stands, balances these two interests... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I think you're an excellent rhetoric, but it's hard to talk about his own conviction!]] What do you mean? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It is already difficult to speak against his own conviction!]] Please! From your own experience: If someone at the acting school had told me to do pedagogy, I would have emigrated. I've never been interested in that. I might be interested in it now. But at that time, in my course of training, I was never interested. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] All right, let's leave that, we can talk about it afterwards. I believe that this law will create a fair balance in this conflict of interest. The reduction in study duration in some areas – and I say so now – creates problems. I believe that we are all committed to providing better training – also in the national music schools and in the music schools at all – because the artistic maturity is of course not only dependent on the technique, but also on the time. That is, it depends on the lifetime and how you approach these things. I believe that the law is an incentive to achieve a fundamental improvement in musical training, and I also believe that we need it. Mrs. Dr. Gredler! If you are on the one hand – probably perfectly right – with Mrs Mag. Mayer and the Minister, but on the other hand, say that this bill is a "Lex Lukesch" or a "Lex Breunlich", I do not fully understand your argument. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3857	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3878	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I said it earlier: It is really difficult for Mr Morak, whom I regard as a good rhetoric, to find the floor on this issue. You did the following, Mr Morak: They spoke the word with a few sentences, but still wordsfully, of the separation between research and teaching. And that's where it actually goes. You and your colleagues from ÖVP think that when you see this transferred a little bit, you are attached to the status of an art university and are not really for a transition to a university. In a transferred sense, research in the art universities is the concertant subject, and teaching is the teaching. The state law states that there must be a unity of research and teaching at the university – that is the mark of the university – and that is imperative. You can't get rid of that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They shared these areas with the "Lex Breunlich" and the "Lex Lukesch" in turn. And that's where the cardinal mistake lies. It may be that you can't start with pedagogy, but: There are not only interesting subjects at the university, and you can't just pick out the raisins when you have an overall education! I can't. This is an approach that you too need to understand. Nor did the Federal Minister express his conviction when he said that he was satisfied with this proposal for a law. You are right that it is actually a compromise which, in this context, should not be detracted from the performance of the liberals, you could have mentioned us quietly – also with our help or because of our advances by bringing in this draft law in the original sense, in the form of an own initiative proposal, has been achieved at all. What Luke and Breunlich wanted to achieve has at least been disintegrated. This has ultimately been a merit of our group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am very disappointed that our request, although it has come to Parliament before the government proposal, is not debated today, for whatever reason. It is not on the agenda, although there is a report from the Scientific Committee. The Committee has already tried to pass this request. Now it has succeeded in treating him at the plenary session too. But our group will make a virtue out of the need when we say: This compromise you have concluded will soon prove to be a lazy compromise. You will see that the "Lex Breunlich" can be put to the point: Individual interests have been put before the overall interests. Therefore, sooner or later – probably earlier – it will be necessary to make a novelle. If, in the autumn of all hope, this issue is dealt with again, I actually see good opportunities for our proposal, which is already in place, to be in reality the novel. They will come to this conclusion, and this is nothing new or surprising. ==References====External links== It was decided here in the House on 4 April 1997. ==References== The first novel to be made on February 1, 1998, was due to the fact that errors had to be made in the end. I therefore assume that it will be necessary, at about the same time, to bring about legal changes for the universities of art. Minister! This means that you can go proudly into the further or shorter future: The novelle is already in the House, and we will certainly still decide it in this or in a similar sense. You will certainly remember my words. Another thing about Professor Breunlich: It really surprises me that colleague Lukesch claims that the office, which Professor Breunlich operates, is a "normal case" at the university. – That is not the case, and you know that too. Through his offices – to the suffering of the university, certainly also the SPÖ and the liberals – he has exercised himself at the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: He has been elected by all democratic bodies!]] I will tell you which offices he is in, so that we also know what man we are talking about and who you, Mr Lukesch, are defending. Professor Breunlich is a member of the Central Committee of Higher Education, Chairman of the Federal Department of Higher Education, Spokesperson of the Central Committee for Higher Education at the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport. He is in the Seilerstätte Space Commission, in the Law Commission, in the body to clarify the various accounting arrangements within the individual departments, in the Guest Professors' Commission, in the consultation round on budget issues, in the Space Contact Committee, in the Administrative Reform Commission, and he is a member of the Board of Directors of the working group of musicians. At this point, the Minister said in the reply to the question of 28 May. May 1998 – and this is exactly the opposite of what you say – that these jobs are Professor Mag. Of course, the standard level of higher education certainly exceeds that of higher education. – And so is it. But that's not enough. He still has many, many other shops, "G'afeln" and side jobs. He is already a well-known university – now known as university; before he was a well-known university. This has been condemned by the High School Office for many years. That's your husband. Her husband got through. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Please bring material arguments!]] At least confess to this man, and try not to do this as a "normal case" in Austria! He is a great rock of Bonzentum in Austria, which hopefully soon belongs to the extinct species. This must be noted here: You're holding on to this big rock from ÖVP, and that's bad for the university! You, Mr Lukesch, are a university professor yourself and should therefore know! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll stay with you. Research and teaching must not be separated – even by Professor Lukesch!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3964	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e3986	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, I have to say - and I am quite right with you - that: I was also amazed at the list of functions held by Mr Breunlich. No one can agree that this would be a usual level at university level. I have to give you the right. I would like to make an amendment to the Federal Law on the Organisation of the Universities of the Arts, together with the Members of Parliament, Niederwieser and Lukasch. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The main issue in Z 1 to Z 4 is the correction of the editorial report and in Z 3 a clarification for the task area of the copper engraving cabinet. – As far as this amendment is concerned. Only two very short comments. Mr Krüger! You have addressed the study of Industrial Design in Linz: The fact is that the name you want is a title that has been completely unknown so far, and it is not true that it would have any disadvantages in Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: It is known in Europe!]] That's why it's supposed to stay with this magister. Again: There is no way to talk about any disadvantage in any form. The next point concerns something which has not yet been mentioned and which I am actually proud of in connection with the KUOG: We have succeeded in producing a four-party proposal and in finding a common arrangement. It is now being facilitated by the fact that one has fulfilled the wishes of the equal treatment officers that they are sent and not elected as the original proposal was. This is positive for the difficult work that must be done by them, because this strengthens their position, and I think it is positive that four parties have agreed on this regulation. Otherwise, I do not want to say that this law is a compromise, but it is essentially a law that is borne by many, though not by all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4092	Mrs Ablinger! May I ask you for a second? Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4117	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the universities of the arts, the artistic-scientific teaching has been challenged in a special way. It has already been pointed out that this challenge can now be met on a more self-responsible, autonomous basis than before, both in the field of visual art and in that of performing art, music and other specific sectors. It is important that the art studies are essentially carried out by a teacher or a teacher, by an artist or an artist and that this organization can be better managed in greater autonomy. To what extent we have been able to defend our good reputation so far, the great demand of foreign students is evident in the field of music. I believe that, with the newly created courses, we offer graduates from abroad, where there is a particular demand for music studies, the opportunity to attend the courses, not as a "primary" student, and thus competing with our but as "postgraduate" students, and to study at a corresponding international similar fee. This means that the Austrian music country is in all cases also secured for the future. The second point, which is also important – it has already been mentioned by my previous speakers in a way – is the question of: What is the difference between art and music? The tension relationship between IGP, i.e. instrumental and vocal pedagogy, and concert subjects is not as dramatic as some present. It's not a trivial pedagogy of music. Even today, the music pedagogical credo does not mean that music and singing teachers simply play a pop-up stream or insist on traditional work consideration, according to the motto, about the favour music on art music, that is, the more school-friendly and student-friendly and trivialer, the better. No, even in music pedagogy a high claim is to be expected, an independent professional competence. There are own compositions for students and students. Just think about how long a Bruckner symphony is and how to proceed step by step in the preparation. I believe that the art claim is not abandoned in instrumental and vocal pedagogy and that the difference between teaching and research has not increased at all. As trivial as you, Dr. Graf, who represent in your comparison, it is indeed not. There is also a close relationship or an integration relationship in this case, which can be solved or entered, similar to the cooperation between diploma studies and teaching in the University of StG. It does not make sense – neither for the concert subject nor for the IGP – to want to drive a cone in. The next point I am pleased about and for which I would like to express my appreciation for both the Ministry and the negotiating side at the Academy itself, concerns the painting gallery of the Academy of Fine Arts at Schillerplatz. It is the second largest collection in Austria, covering the history of European painting from the late Middle Ages to the 20th century. ==References== It represents a collection of teaching and a publicly accessible federal collection. The collection consists of donations and legacies, essentially the foundation Lamberg. Thanks to the skillful negotiation and skillful cooperation between the Academy, i.e. its dedicated director and the house at Minorite Square, it is possible to achieve even more independence, so that – and this as a small advertising intervention – the opening hours can be further expanded, the attractiveness increased and the dance of the self-conscious museums increased. Federal Minister! At the beginning of the debate on the reorganisation of the art study, I said: Give yourself, Dr. Caspar, a chance to Godfrey! With this law, both have been given a chance. With good will and a sense of responsibility, we can go to work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4174	The next speaker is Mr Rada. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4195	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been greatly praised in the debates on the university laws, but it has also been highly criticised. However, I would still like to raise some thoughts about the Danube University of Krems. Mr Stippel has clearly and clearly presented the history of this university's origin and has pointed out that there has not been the flow of students we have expected. Nevertheless, relatively much has been done in this relatively young company. For example, the Federal Minister suggested that, especially in the field of controlling and economics, this university has done yours, although the costs for each student are relatively high. All in all, I believe that this university will still have great opportunities in the future, and we must strengthen these opportunities which are being opened up, especially in the common European area. I see a very great opportunity in the organized, consistent and systematic cooperation between companies and the resulting optimization in scientific research. A kind of competence centre that can benefit the economy and the companies, but also this academic training centre, would certainly be a future project that should be pursued consistently. Especially for Lower Austria with its small and medium-sized economic structure, such a centre would be a valuable impulse and a boost to its economic area, because, as we have to say, there are outposts and emigrations to the neighbouring, more labour-intensive regions of Vienna. I also see another chance of the future in the so-called long-distance studies. The new and modern information technologies make it possible. The Danube University of Krems could create a secure stand for the future. Another point: The Danube University of Krems should not only serve as a training centre for postgraduate studies, but also as a research and training site for non-academics in the form of seminars. All in all, I mean that the Danube University has Krem's future. It's just that we have to give up their future opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4250	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4271	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are all proud to live in a country of culture, and we can take this back to the artistic achievement that is known worldwide. This artistic performance goes from top to bottom, and I think that is very important so that it can come to a performance in the upper range at all. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have heard that there was a danger in the Mozarteum in Salzburg that the study direction for instrumental and vocal pedagogy, IGP, would be dissolved or abolished. Thank God it came differently. The importance of the IGP lies in the fact that teachers and teachers are trained for the national school music work. And there culture is created on a broad scale. I remember that in Dorfgastein, in this small town, a trumpetist was led by the Landesmusikwerk Salzburg to that size which resulted in him being the first trumpetist of the Philharmonic today. This has become possible because of this really small possibility in the countryside. That is why I am very grateful for the fact that this institution continues to be preserved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4307	Mrs Pittermann has now come to speak. Before I give her the floor, I would like to point out that the amendment tabled by Mr Niederwieser, Dr. Lukesch, Mr Ablinger and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and included in the debate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we will soon have a vote with constitutional provisions and that it would therefore be time for the plenary to meet the necessary level of presence. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4340	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The government documents 1228 and 1229 of the Supplements to be decided today have made a further step towards the autonomousisation of universities. Further improvements are the aggregation of some study areas and the reduction of study duration. It is also necessary to bring Austrian study law closer to international circumstances. The studies serve not only artistic but also artistic and scientific and artistic-pedagogical vocational training. The study directions are not differentiated by instruments or by materials. The performance assessment in the central artistic subject is planned continuously throughout the duration of the study. The approval of this bill was very large in the review. The uniform law of study and organisation of universities emphasizes the equivalence of science and art. Science is also being conducted at the art universities. Equivalence is also expressed by the term "university". The KUOG regulates the organisation in the core field at two levels, possibly at three levels, in the formation of faculties, which I do not think are very useful: at the level of the university as a whole by the Rector and the College of the University College and at the level of the institutions with the Institute Board and the Institute Conference. The collegial bodies have directives and control competence vis-à-vis the monocratic bodies with detailed decision-making competence. The transfer of competence from the Federal Ministry to the universities of the arts is mainly concerned with the adoption of autonomous statutes, with the area of planning posts and the allocation of funds to institutes as well as with the field of appeal procedures and appeal negotiations with university professors, with the establishment and appointment of institutes as well as with orders. The activities of the institutions are to be assessed by annual working reports from the Board of Directors, which the rector has to publish. Regular evaluation of the courses and publications of the evaluation results is intended to improve teaching. This law, which approaches the universities of the arts and allows for their autonomy, is to be welcomed. A wormhead drop is the terrible German jurist. If the statements of the physicians are difficult to understand by Latin terminology for medical laymen, the authorities in the ministries are able to express themselves hard to understand and misunderstanding for laymen. My request to our national council presidents – all three are probably for good reason lawyers –: Give the wish for understandable formulations to all ministries! The creativity of this law is great. In addition to content, it expresses itself in the explanations by word creations, because I could not find the "transdisciplinarity" mentioned there in any lexicon. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] However, we are happy to give our assent to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4400	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Spindelegger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4421	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would first like to begin with a correcting position with regard to the Danube University of Krems. From this point of view, Dr. Brauneder claimed that in the creation of the Danube University Krems, the fact that an empty building had to be filled in Krems played a role as a motivation and that it was necessary to give a city like Krems a "sugarl" in the course of the collection of St. Pölten to the capital of the state. Ladies and gentlemen! That's an awful recognition of the real situation. The idea of creating a Danube University in Lower Austria has existed since the beginning of the 1980s. At that time, the state of Lower Austria and the then head of state Ludwig together with scientists – I am thinking of Professor Gottschlick and Professor Raschauer – have born the idea that a full university should also be created for Lower Austria, for the largest federal state in Austria. That was really the motivation for the creation of this university! This is quite different from what Professor Brauneder has tried to present here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is quite legitimate to think of a full university of ordinary studies for the largest federal state of Austria, especially at a time when we are facing the phenomenon that, unfortunately, a mass university with all negative manifestations is given in Vienna at the faculties of the University of Economics and at the Faculty of Law. Krems is well suited as a location, especially because of its proximity to Vienna, to establish regular studies there. But this is certainly a plan that can be realized by piece. It is not possible to start from the beginning with a university full of ways. But I think it was possible to start postgraduate training. To this end, I can say that the graduates of the courses in Krems can do something with their training. I myself, when I was a member of the European Parliament in Brussels, met a number of graduates of a course in Krems – the European course – who were proud to have taken away many different areas of knowledge from this Danube University Krems, and who could also take this training on board a commitment in the institutions. It is therefore also necessary to state clearly that the courses held there have shown a positive attitude to the graduates for their professional life course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also very pleased that we have taken the step of giving an academic degree when a course in Krems is completed. This master's title is also a visible sign of the completion of the course, and I think it is good and right and important that this is happening today. But I mean, Federal Minister, that this novelle, as it is now on the table, can certainly only be one step – and that was mentioned by the previous speakers – towards improving the functioning of the Danube University Krems, but not the last step. On the contrary: We need the next step towards anchoring proper studies at this university. We of the ÖVP would have been willing to give a legislative mandate even now for proper studies to be started. We know that it takes time, but we would be able to agree this with the coalition partner now. We have not yet found a consensus on this, but it remains on the agenda for us. I expect the examination by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to be completed very soon, with regard to the relocation of parts of the University of Economics to Krems. I would like to see this goal of being able to take part in a training course at the Vienna University of Economics in Krems soon become a reality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4485	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The report does not wish to conclude. Now I'm asking you to take the seats. We have to vote. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1349 of the Supplements will be taken. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the draft law concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft which have not yet been voted on. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the present draft law contains constitutional provisions so that, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first of all establish the constitutional quota necessary for the vote. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Z 165 of the draft law. Those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft has been adopted by a large majority. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, with expressly stating the existence of the constitutional quota of a two-thirds majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree at third reading to a sign. – The draft has also been adopted by the majority at the third reading and in the event of the constitutional quota. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1350 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority. We shall vote in third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the draft in third reading may give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. Now we are voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1352 of the Supplements. On this draft, Mr Ddr. Deweiser, Dr. Lukesch and comrades submitted an additional or amendment request. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law as it stands. I would draw attention to the fact that this draft contains constitutional provisions. I therefore expressly note the presence of Members in the constitutional presence. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1352 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Deweiser, Dr. Lukesch and comrades. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I expressly note that there is a two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft has also been adopted by the majority, with the constitutional quota required, at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on amendment 809/A by Mr Mag. Walter Posch, Edeltraud Gattererand comrades concerning a federal law on the building extension of the University of Klagenfurt under the financial participation of the country of Carinthia and the state capital Klagenfurt; and on the application 815/A by Dr Jörg Haiderand comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Construction Extension of the University of Klagenfurt under the financial participation of the State of Carinthia and the State capital Klagenfurt (1353 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Science and Research on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4654	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting, so that at the beginning of the debate I was the first speaker to speak Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl to give the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4678	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For now, a short replica to the Danube University. You described this, Mr Minister, as if this university had not been accepted by the great colleagues. But despite this sum of money you have pumped into it, acceptance on the market and on the part of the students has so far been avoided. I think that should be said for the sake of completeness. Ladies and gentlemen! We have long called for the reorganisation of the university system. Unfortunately, the report of the University Curatorium, which contains very critical comments, has been completed in the Committee. These critical and factual remarks should be the basis of the considerations. For example, when it comes to autonomy and implementation of the UOG 93, one is already wondering: Why is it that way? Why has the implementation of the UOG and autonomy been so slow in the past five years, including the profit of autonomy for universities? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mr Schöggl, your university is already in the new robe of the UOG!]] There is already a question of whether it is really desirable to release the universities completely into this autonomy, or whether one would just like to do well, so that the universities, which have always been a little tired, do not escape politically. Or: What about the budgetary sovereignty of the staff and the subject matter or the question of Pragmatization in the personnel sector, which has substantially led to a strengthening of the system and to a refusal of competition? The cooperation between the economy and the university is still to be desired. So if in the magazine "Industrie" under "Birthsort University: Numerous universities prove to be the ideal kindergarten for companies – a model for Austria" Switzerland and, above all, the Swiss Federal Technical University, with its efforts to start up the company, is seen as positive, and this can also be seen in Austria's needs. There's a lot to be done here, too. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Many university questions have been postponed, such as the question of the accreditation of private universities. However, the topics relating to the technical universities and the cooperation of the technical universities with the universities have also been pushed to the long-term bank. Mr. Minister! You wrote a white paper. But just writing a white paper – in which the ideas and wishes are contained almost all the political groups – is not enough. Minister, the implementations are in demand! Another word on the expansion of the University of Klagenfurt: This small university has for a long time led a shadow existence. It is striking, however, that the success and acceptance of this university have increased to the extent that its ideological orientation has decreased. In particular, the technical fields of study are widely accepted. The need for communication and the use of the new telecommunications technologies helps to strengthen the market position of this university. Thus, the expansion of the University of Klagenfurt corresponds to the need for research and teaching and is to be welcomed! I wish the Carinthian colleagues, on behalf of the Liberal Group, much success in their future pragmatic and free of ideology. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4716	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4737	Mr President. Minister! High house! Then I would like to pay tribute to my previous speakers in particular to the efforts of the University of Klagenfurt for integration, the understanding of minorities, the life for tolerance, and the fact that the University of Klagenfurt has contributed substantially to the spiritual climate of co-operation in the years since its existence. [[Demonstrative applause by Mr Smolle and Dr Gredler.]] With today's law, the University of Klagenfurt finds a corresponding assessment by extending the University of Klagenfurt. The University of Klagenfurt has always been at the forefront of all the rankings of the Austrian universities in recent years, and deserves this expansion, especially since the "Hochschule für Bildungswissenschaften", as it was then called at the time when it was founded in 1970, was designed for a stand of 1,200 students, with the city of Klagenfurt and the country of Carinthia each 150 million schilling for construction or land procurement. In the current study year, the total number of listeners enrolled is over 4 500, i.e. almost quadruple the number of listeners. For years, the university had to help itself with rents, partly far outside the university, in order to maintain the teaching and study activities in some way. Therefore, by decision of the City Senate or the State of Carinthia of May and April 1997, the decision was taken to promote this project by a maximum of 180 million Schilling. A extended building body, which includes both the expansion of the university library and the creation of a new computer centre, will be built to include a hearing hall centre, institute areas, seminar rooms, university administration and student residence areas and a total net floor area of more than one hectare. The total cost of production will be estimated at around 300 million schilling, with the prospect of being completed in mid-2000. These costs will still amount to equipment costs of about 30 to 35 million Schilling, which will allow the university to reach its status and to expand the teaching and study business to an extent that is likely to be extended even after the faculties have been extended to enable students to maintain this teaching and study business in a satisfactory way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4782	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4803	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Today's decision-making of the National Council for the University of Klagenfurt is an important milestone in the development of this educational institution. As my previous speaker pointed out, the area should be increased by 11 000 square meters and ready for use by the year 2000/2001. This construction corresponds to the rapid development that this university has taken since its inception in 1970. It was founded as the "University of Education" with a number of listeners of 1,200. This narrow segment of science has proved to be not entirely viable in the following years, and in 1993 a comprehensive reform was made, in which a faculty division into a philosophical faculty and into an economics faculty, including computer science, was created. Meanwhile, this university has 4 500 students. It is currently in preparation for the establishment of two new fields of study in the field of regulation, on the one hand the field of psychology and, on the other hand, the subject of publishing and media science. You can imagine that among these premises, the space shortage in our university is very great, that it was necessary to outsource many institutes and rent a lot of objects outside the university grounds, which in turn means high rental costs and organizational problems. That is why new construction is urgently needed, and the People's Party supports this project at all political levels. The city of Klagenfurt is involved with 72 million Schilling, the country of Carinthia with a total of 108 million Schilling and of course also the Republic of Austria with the remainder of 150 million Schilling. Our university in Klagenfurt was a joint venture from the beginning. The country of Carinthia and the city of Klagenfurt have already made significant contributions when it was founded. What is particularly gratifying is the fact that acceptance for our university has grown in the years of its existence. I have a very new study by the Linz Market Institute from April 1998 and I can show it to you. Here, the increase in acceptance in the population from 1995 to 1998 is clearly visible. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No one can read that!]] The result is very encouraging. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But no one can read that, Mr. Colleague!]] Can read It is not you, but you can see that in 1998 the stripe is much wider than the stripe in 1995, and I wanted to show it to you. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I see two black lines!]] There is therefore a significant difference here with the universities in the rest of Austria, because the University of Klagenfurt has achieved an increase in the population's consent at a time when acceptance in the Austrian average is rather stagnating and in some cases even sinking. With the University of Klagenfurt, the words "good training" and "good professors" are significantly linked. In this way, the act of law is based here in the National Council on a strong vote of those concerned. That is why I would like to congratulate our university from this point of view and conclude with the wish: Ad multos annos!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4867	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4888	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the architectural design of the University of Klagenfurt will be a little more beautiful than the two black lines that Mr Wurmitzer has shown us. [[Mr Wurmitzer's call.]] I believe that today's decision for the city of Klagenfurt and for the University of Klagenfurt is a historical one, because it is also a substitute for thanks to those pioneers of 30 years ago who, at the time – partly against the resistance of existing universities – have worked to open up a university at all in Klagenfurt, although it was very left-oriented at the beginning of their activity and it was not too easy for graduates of that university to find a corresponding position in the business life in Carinthia, because it has always been stressed by staff chiefs: No, we don't take graduates from the University of Education in Klagenfurt. Thanks to more intensive... – Yes, Mr Smolle, you know that, because you are also one of those who have contributed negatively to the fact that Klagenfurt has received a bad reputation as a university city. [[Abg. Smolle: What's in Linz? Explain Linz!]] Yes, you're one of them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dispenser: Go, go, go!]] But the University of Klagenfurt has taken a good turn. We are looking forward to this, as it is now being expanded, which in turn allows the expansion of the relevant economic branches, which are inseparably linked to the economic rise in a country. We also consider it necessary, as the location issue of today's economy and industry, to expand and offer appropriate educational opportunities. In Klagenfurt, the non-university Fernlerinstitut has also proved its worth, which enjoys a good reputation far beyond the borders. I would like implementation, as planned, to be speedily over the stage, so that there is the possibility of dealing with the spatial situation under better conditions than before and also of extending the content of the proposal accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4950	Mrs Gredler has now been spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e4972	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The first point we should discuss is the expansion of the University of Klagenfurt, which my group also very much welcomes. Mr Posch! I have taken your words from you that it should even be a long construction. I hope that the heating will then be operated with solar energy, so that we can support our commitment to alternative heating as progressively as possible. I just wanted to say, as a replica, that I do not believe that my colleague Smolle has such a comprehensive influence that he is the reputation of the University of Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then underestimate his influence!]] I think, rather, if he makes a reputation in Carinthia, then by his internationality, and that needs a university. I would now like to come to the request made by Members Krüger and Comrades, because I believe that we should really look at it more closely. It contains a few good points which I would like to highlight, for example, the withdrawal of Pragmatization in favour of autonomous design of service contracts. I must say that I think it is a right approach to keep those people at universities who have contributed to the satisfaction of both research and teaching. This is a very good approach, but I have my problems – I should just talk briefly – with some other points. They say postgraduate training must be a fixed component of each faculty. However, it is now true that postgraduate training is already being organized around universities to the normal extent. If you write this in, you would also have to say who has to bear the costs: those who consume this postgraduate training, or would the State have an obligation to do so? This could also be very positive about the extent to which the state has an obligation to continue to provide its citizens with post-university services. However, I do not think that we have the budget available at the moment, but it is certainly an area that we should deepen in the discussion. Only one thing I can't agree with: For the administration of universities, representatives of the National Council's Scientific Committee and eligible Members of the Landtag are to be nominated. I have to say that I am actually glad that we are trying to find as autonomous as possible access to universities, so that politics is becoming more and more out of the design of a university. I think it would be better... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You agreed to the University of StG earlier!]] I voted in favour of the UniStG because it was a step in the direction we imagine. I did not agree with it from the bottom of my heart, which is why I voted against in committee at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But the administration didn't criticize you!]] It must be seen, however, that it is a step forward. I hope that the next step will be taken by the Federal Minister in any case in the direction that we both obviously seek. However, I do not think that we, as representatives of the Scientific Committee in Parliament, should then sit in university committees and interfere in their autonomous field. I think we should discuss your request in peace and with really good intentions. I cannot agree with this short form in view of the comprehensive matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5033	The last speaker in this debate was Mr. Dr. Lucisch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5054	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, today is a day to celebrate: We have covered the arts in a new garment, and we have enabled the University of Klagenfurt to expand in space because of its great successes. I am glad that the child, who was put into the world by my academic teacher – the older ones will remember him – is so successful today, Professor Stephan Koren. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I do not want to be challenged by the FPÖ's request to redesign the university system. Mrs Gredler! I agree with your criticism in a wide range of areas. But I'm saying it more punctual: The FPÖ's application – as well as its application to the University of Klagenfurt and its extension – comes first too late, second, he is mistaken over certain routes; that is what you have to see. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Insiders can only wonder about your application. It sounds as if the reforms at Austrian universities had passed on to you, as if you had not heard them. Mr Schöggl! Please note that we founded the autonomous universities in 1993 and planned a transitional period – your university is already in the new robe – in order to prepare for autonomy. I'll tell you something, Mr Schöggl. At that time you rejected the UOG 1993 on the part of the FPÖ precisely because of autonomy and independence! [[Call the ÖVP:Genau! Rejected!]] They have accused us of withdrawing policy from responsibility. Today you want fully autonomous universities in the robe of a foundation. Where the money comes from, how it's supposed to go, of course you don't say that. Whoever is supposed to control this, you don't say that either. So you can only be surprised. At the time, they rejected the University of Applied Sciences Law and said: Where is the state responsibility for setting up such colleges? Where is the concept that regulates everything? - We had a different opinion. Today we see that it was almost a century-old idea to set up these colleges. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Please note, too, that university autonomy with regard to teaching and curriculum design in 1997 has been decided in this House! Once again, when the FPÖ rejects it. I was still in the ears, President Brauneder told me at that time that it was all too little specified by law and therefore constitutionally worrying, so you reject it. – Now you demand universities, which are also to decide for themselves which courses of study they offer, so further indetermination can no longer go. I think you know the statement of Gorbachev: Whoever comes too late punishes the story. – They want to avoid this punishment. But I'm telling you: In the university area you are all too late!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5107	There is no more word message. I'll close the debate. A conclusion of the report will not be desired. I ask you to take the seats. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals, first of all on the draft law and on the title and receipt in 1353 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to have a corresponding sign of approval. – The adoption was unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. I ask for a sign of approval. – This draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Science and Research to take note of its report 1354. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion 805/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Helmut Kukackaund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (1334 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1209 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Aviation Act (1335 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1275 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the carriage of dangerous goods by road, as well as the Road Transport Act 1967 and the Road Transport Regulations 1960 (1336 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 738/A (E) by Mrs Gabriela Moserund Cosossen on the revision of the Telecoms Act (1337 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5216	We now come to points 6 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mrs Ing. Meschberger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5244	Mr President. Minister! High house! On the basis of the extensive agenda, I would like to limit myself to the debate on the ban on mobile phones and Moser's request on the "stationary forest". As far as the ban on mobile phones and the new legislation or the amendment to the 1967 motor vehicle law is concerned, it may be necessary to point out, in principle, that similar events have occurred very often. We have only debated and discussed in detail at the last partsession. It was not possible for the ÖVP to go with the SPÖ in the mobile phone question, although everyone knew that it would be like it at some point again, as it is always that the SPÖ pulls the ÖVP over the ears of Kukackas more or less over the table. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It happened again in this case. All that has brought about the interruption of the debate and the recent discussion on it is a shift in the date of the law's entry into force to 1.7.1999. That's all that came out of it. In our view, I can say that once again we reject this proposal for a law. There has been no change in our argument on this point. If one pretends to be able to guarantee or improve driving safety, just because one no longer keeps the device in hand when calling, we think – like many other professionals too – that it is not the in-hand hold of the device that ultimately distracts from traffic, but the conversation itself. It is necessary to debate the telephone call or the ban on calling during the journey when it is really a matter of driving safety. In reality, it's about something else: It's all about tingling the milk cow of the nation, the drivers, somehow and making life difficult for them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that an emotional conversation is certainly much more distracting from the concentration on the road than the in-hand hold of the device. In the future, this new law will be responsible for the safety of the car, because – which can be confirmed by any freephone users – when connecting mouth to the microphone and the noise contained in it and when connecting speakers to the ear the understanding, the quality of the transmission in the free-phone systems is unevenly worse than when the device is held directly to the ear; this needs a lot of attention. It is very often necessary to repeat sentences or ask for the repetition of a sentence because it has not been understood. In fact, this is distracting from driving and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it were to be a distraction, otherwise it would really be the device itself, then if you were to think about it consistently, you would no longer have to use a radio, you would have to introduce the electric window lifters as a legal standard, because the cranking is very dangerous, you would have to invent any machine that automates smoking and leads the cigarette to the mouth, otherwise you would be insecure, you would have to ban smoking while driving, and in the last consequence you would also have to ban manual switching and make the automatic vehicles the legal standard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] All these things would have to be dealt with in the consistent reflection of this request. Of course, that's not happening. The background is that it is again a businessmanship that the driver is again made a milk cow of the nation. It is a punishment to make it easier for insurance companies to conduct debates when it comes to disbursements due to accidents. Finally, the regulation that the Minister will determine by regulation, which type of free speech apparatus is ultimately standard enough to make it safe, will lead the Minister to decide by regulation what may appear on the market at all – and that in the case of equipment which costs between 2 000 and 3 000 s on average. That, I think, is just too much! This law is outrageous, it is immature, it is especially unfair, and therefore it is rejected by us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The time is pressing, yet a few words on the application Moser in relation to the "Sendmastenwald". This request receives our support, especially because it points in the right direction. It is urgently necessary, at last, to create basics and standards for the examination and control of the health-damaging effects, but also of the wild, excessive expansion of such transmission masts. We have already tabled proposals here in plenary. We have tabled a request to the committee itself, which was correct with a unanimously decided request from the Salzburg Landtag. He has been rejected by the great coalition – for whatever reason. The Federal Minister, together with Mrs Prammer, has stated in an APA announcement that this is necessary and has announced that he will make a bill. Why the great coalition rejects any request of the opposition, even if it is very reasonable and responds to other applications, that is simply no longer to understand. This is not to be understood, Mr Minister, alone because we are facing the award of the fourth licence. As far as the transmission masts are concerned, there is an invoice, and I will give you a brief explanation: Due to the currently issued three licences, approximately 10,000 transmission masts are expected. Some 5,000 of these 10,000 are already built. These 5 000 are already provoking such displeasure and protest in the population that they do not know how to put up the 5 000 more at all. Now one is to grant the fourth licence, for which another 4,000 transmission masts will be needed. So we want to build these 14,000 transmission masts, although the 5,000 have already generated such resistance in the population. However, we all want to have a functioning transmission operation, so this problem must be solved before the fourth licence is granted, and it would have failed to think and debate it, as to reject any request from the opposition, even if the Moser application in this case might go a little too far. From our point of view, the party position of neighbouring citizens is too large. If we could make this party position possible, it would be impossible to build a transmission mast at all in the future. The truth will lie in the middle, but we support the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5349	Mrs Gabriele Binder is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5373	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the amendments to the Motor Driving Act 1967. In my opinion, this change is more a command than a ban when it comes to calling the phone while driving, and when it comes to the measures that are being taken. Why is there a change? – According to the Transport Safety Board, 90 percent of traffic accidents are due to human failures. Therefore, the attention of the handlebar is of utmost importance. Especially in complex transport situations, the attention devoted to telephoning cannot be refocused quickly enough on the road traffic situation. In a study conducted by the University of Munich, the distraction was measured by calling at the tax: Visual and acoustic incentives of the environment must be more pronounced by 60 percent in order to be able to perceive the telephone driver. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the dangers of telephone drivers? – They cut frequent curves, they cross often block lines, forget to blink, and have problems, among other things, in subordinate situations, when starting at the mountain, while parking and reversing. In addition, reaction time is slowed down, and there is also recklessness towards pedestrians. Around three-quarters of the calling handlebars do not stop before the zebra strip. According to this study, 74.6 percent of all mobile phone traffic accidents are accidents. The driver himself, however, is convinced that he is driving without error. Ladies and gentlemen! To these changes that the handlebar is forbidden to telephone without the use of a caller while driving: The most radical solution would be a fundamental telephone ban. The cheapest solution is to press the thumb on the button. So the phone is turned off, and then you have no problems to continue with the accident. It is also important that the requirements of the product safety provisions for admissibility devices are laid down by regulations and regulations by the Federal Minister. The transitional scheme until 1. ==References====External links==* Official website Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that car production will also depend on these regulations and that a minimum equipment in the area of the telephone system must belong to the basic equipment of a car and be present in the car. Of course, other activities also distract during driving, but it has been proven that the concentration killer number one is the mobile phone. That is why I am convinced of this new regulation, but it serves its own safety and concentration. The best solution is still to turn off the phone. This law implements a minimum requirement for greater road safety and for the protection of all road users.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5425	Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moserzu has now been reported. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5449	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A kind of security debate can also become this item on the agenda, which comprises a total of four subgroups. I therefore move forward with security because, in itself, according to the federal constitution, it should be guaranteed for every citizen and because it covers both transport safety and a fundamental right, namely legal certainty. As far as the brackets on the contributions I would like to make now are concerned. I refer to the statements made by my predecessors on the question of mobile phone ban during driving. This is not a problem for us. We are of course in favour of any possibility of any small step towards greater road safety. In our opinion, this step has been too hesitant anyway. Delaying tactics have been applied by the ÖVP – I quote from the press releases. As early as the beginning of June, the discussion was started with the reference to the fact that too few states had introduced the ban on mobile phones, that there were no practical experience yet, that the actual effectiveness had not yet been lost and that there should actually be a review procedure. I am very pleased that within a month the opinion has changed seriously. However, the ban on mobile phones will be implemented with a slightly slower effectiveness. It would have been better if that had been possible with January or March, now is the 1. July 1999 the day on which the law will come into force. This is the compromise of the great coalition that I feel a little bit like a wormhead drop. – As far as road safety is concerned. I would like to stay with the mobile phone in the telecommunications sector and confirm my request again in argumentative terms. It is based on initiatives by numerous citizens who feel threatened by the establishment of transmission masts. I do not want to mention the health aspects here, because it is now primarily about the aspect of legal certainty. It should always be ensured in the case of construction measures. I know, Mr Minister - we have already talked about this in committee - that is a matter of the construction regulations of the countries. But in some cases the countries did this very differently and have the tendency to request this at the federal level in the Telecommunications Act. Accordingly, with the help of university legal experts, I formulated the application. Mr Prof. Kerschner from Linz University has given me some clues as to the extent to which it is very likely to be constitutional and also fundamental to argue that the position of the party in the setting up of send masts should be a civil right. The Committee has already made it clear - Mr Kukacka has pointed out - that party status would result in a prevention, a delay, an extension of the procedures. The set-up of the masts would certainly not be possible at the required pace. - No question, that's right. On the other hand, a previous speaker – I think it was Mr Meischberger – pointed out that at the pace at which cell phone calls are taking place and how fast transmission masts are currently being built – the 16 000 in Austria will be set up over the next three years – not only will the landscape protection stay on the track, but also the protection of the local imagery and above all a civil right, namely to be heard in various structural measures. That is why our request for party status as a basic democratic requirement, which is specifically required and is intended to be guaranteed by the example of telecommunications. I also know that reform efforts in the ministry are underway, that in the future several channels will be placed on one mast, so that the different societies will work together and then also give each other the rights of mast use. This is to be submitted as a novel in autumn. But that's not enough for me. Above all, I am not aware of the fact that this innovation also concerns the facilities on roofs, where the inhabitants of the house concerned might then be subjected to a threefold burden – I would stress that they could be. I don't know if masts on roofs are taken into account in this novelle. – As far as a brief appeal is concerned, as far as our proposal is concerned, which is democratically oriented. Finally, another democratic policy issue relating to the Aviation Act. This matter is unproblematic. We would give her our consent if – this is now the great If and But – from this occasion and during this innovation, the opportunity would have been seen to eliminate serious environmental deficiencies in the field of participation. There would have been the possibility to take into account, on the occasion of this amendment to the Aviation Act, the various concerns of the citizens' initiatives, which are constantly being taken into account, for example in the case of extension of the slopes and so on. One could have done some open points. For example, there would have been an opportunity to give parties in the event of renewal or magnification of land facilities or slopes. Rehabilitation procedures for existing airports could also have been taken into account. It wasn't done. In the same way, those agreements with the various air noise initiatives were reached in particular on 24 July. It was also not taken into account in January 1995. Paragraph 2 of the Aviation Act could have been amended in this direction. In the name of the various citizens' initiatives, which are constantly plagued by noise, we must therefore take this unacceptably perceived opportunity to change the aviation law so that we do not agree with the present legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5519	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5541	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Today, we have four transport laws that have little to do with each other. We must, however, treat them together for reasons of time. I cannot therefore address all of them and will deal, above all, with those two who also have great importance for individual citizens. The drivers are most affected by the so-called mobile ban, because the mobile phone boom exceeds all expectations. In the first half of this year 430 000 new participants were registered again. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: How do you scratch the curve now?]] With 30.6.1998, there are now around 1.57 million mobile users in Austria. We can see an increasing pace in this area. It's just a – I want to say – new technical-civilisatorial mass phenomena. This, of course, also has a massive impact on car transport and road safety. This is exactly what distinguishes the mobile phone from other distracting activities, as hundreds of thousands of drivers have a mobile phone and, of course, also use it in the car. Of course, there are also other types of distraction – no one will dispute it – such as talking, radio listening, transmitter settings, cigarette lighting, navigation systems and much more. But a colleague has already pointed out that there are already a number of investigations that confirm that the mobile phone has a very special quality of distraction in the car. In addition to ignoring much more common traffic signs, drivers who call without a telephone system have a four-fold higher risk of being involved in accidents. Errors happen especially at the moment when you take your phone into your hand. Curves are cut, center and side lines are crossed, while bending is often shaved out. These are facts that you don't come by! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] That's why I'm holding it: One will not be able to completely stop distracting activities when driving, such as cigarette lighting and smoking, radio configuration et cetera. But it is important to maintain the proportionality between transport safety and the degree of distraction. The former is no longer guaranteed when calling in the car without a telephone system. That's what all the investigations have shown. That is why we agree to this mobile phone rule. We were against a rapid shot – that is right – and therefore we have opposed the fact that a ban has already been decided by means of an initiative with the last amendment of the StVO or the KFG, and at least a short review is required, precisely because so many drivers are affected by this measure, because it costs the car drivers a little and because it has only been introduced in Europe in a few countries. This short-term review was also carried out on our initiative, and virtually all the assessment bodies, with the exception of the ÖAMTC, which has expressed itself somewhat more critically, have agreed to the introduction of the free speech system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But this is mildly formulated!]] Therefore – we support this – there will also be no exception for public services or executives. If you want to make a phone call when driving, you have to do so with a free-phone system. The ÖAMTC has produced a more critical opinion, and I fully support it, that free speech facilities are not the last to conclude. But what did ÖAMTC demand as a consequence? He said it was best not to make calls when driving. - Okay! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: This is a plant!]] But who does that? You, Mr Meischberger, certainly do not do it, I am convinced of that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Also telephone calls with telephone systems, Mr Colleague, can be regarded as a grossly negligent act with all legal consequences. That must be clear to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] For the road transport system forbids divergent activities where there are concrete hazards. This applies to the mobile phone as well as to changing a cassette or inflaming a cigarette. Therefore, a freephone system is by no means a free letter for calling. This must be taken into account. But there is really no meaningful alternative to that, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have also voted in favour of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] Nor do we want it to be an alibi solution, but it is actually an effect on road safety. Proposals have been made, for example, that everything should be explained as a "free" system, including devices which are on the market at 150 to 200 p.m. I don't think that's right. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: This is business-making!]] That is why we have advocated that the Minister of Transport should, by means of a regulation, determine the requirements to be met for such a freeway system. I note that the Board of Directors for Transport Safety states as a minimum standard that there should be no cable connection between drivers and vehicles, i.e. microphones and speakers should be fixed in the car, earphones, tie microphones and the like should not be allowed. In any case, we are not concerned with finding any cheap alibi solution, just so to speak, regardless of whether it really makes sense for road safety. That was also the motto of some people in this house. In any case, we will not support such a procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! I note that I believe that we have found a solution that is necessary for road safety and which is practical and reasonable for drivers, and that is why we agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to talk briefly about the Green request for a GSM. We have already discussed this several times. I cannot agree on a certain need either. Of course, the issue is important, and of course some citizens feel affected, although I have already said it in committee, and I am not afraid to say it again – in some cases, we have to deal with a form of Floriani principle. I don't want to generalise it at all, but in some cases it is. There are more and more mobile phones, everyone wants to make calls, wherever possible, as convenient as possible, but transmission systems should not be built, because they do not fit into the landscape, they may even be dangerous by electromagnetic radiation – so please not near me! Although we want to make calls – like what is quite legitimate, the greens in the house – we support everything that prevents the establishment of transmission systems! – This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the right way to proceed with serious politics either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister will therefore, as announced, draw up an appropriate bill. This proposal will require a comprehensive review so that we can advise together in the House on meaningful and forward-looking solutions. In my opinion, of course, we also need a compromise on this issue – a compromise between social needs and social needs, on the one hand, and the civil rights and fears that exist in some circles of society on the other. We are committed to such a compromise, and we hope that it will come about quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5656	Mr Laiber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5677	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kukacka! As far as the traffic safety of the mobile phone ban is concerned, we are on your side, as far as your statement is concerned, no longer needed to deal with it for reasons of time. On the one hand, because we have dealt with other innovations in the Committee on Transport almost four weeks ago, and on the other, because this ban on mobile phones with 1. In the autumn, however, as you know, a further revision of the driving licence law with other amendments will take effect on July 1999. So where is the so-called timeframe? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think you've given yourself the quick shot you've been talking about. You have exposed yourself to this question with a Husch-Puff action, because with a single-set law you become You certainly don't solve this problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You haven't read the law! It consists of much more than one sentence! You have read my original press release now!]] I don't need to read your press releases, they all cover themselves and are always the same. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kukacka! ==References== June in your press release – just so you know that I also read your press releases – wrote that you consider it a mistake to have agreed on the 0.5-promille solution. – You know your own broadcast. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, as Mr Meischberger has already said, you have pulled the SPÖ over the table on both ears. You fell in front of your coalition partner. It is not about road safety, but you always give in your well-informed views if it requires SPÖ from you. - That's a fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Over again!]] Furthermore, Mr Kukacka, with the exception of the opinion of the ÖAMTC, you have expressed your support for this. But what did the members of the Transport Committee – at least those of the opposition parties – not get? – No opinion on the fact that this mobile phone ban is supported to the extent you have claimed. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Everyone was for it, everyone except the ÖAMTC!]] Mr Parnigoni said that he had received nine to ten opinions which would have supported this. We did not get them, that is, you work alone and do not depend on the opinion of the opposition and do not want to give up. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have no idea!]] Mr Parnigoni has also said that re-adjustment will be essential. - Then I'll ask you: Why do we decide here and today to change a mobile ban if we have time until the summer of next year? [[Abg. Parnigoni: What you can get today, don't move it to tomorrow!]] One argument that is also mentioned in the ÖAMTC opinion is that this new ban on executives is difficult to execute or monitor, since no one can prove whether he has really telephoned or not – except if you pass someone directly and you can see it. My colleague Marolt will make several other arguments. That is why I would like to make a few comments on the Risk Goods Promotion Act. Minister! High house! The Risk Promotion Act is in principle very positive – and we will also agree to this law – since this new law removes two national rules. As part of the old law, there were also 17 regulations that are now being replaced by regulation. In terms of legibility, implementation and monitoring, this is, of course, an essential relief, even if there are still points that...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5794	Excuse me, Mr. Deputies. I would like to point out once again that phone calls are forbidden in the plenary room. You'll be able to turn the phone off! [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a technical problem!]] [[Call the Liberals and the Freeman: Free movement!]] Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5837	... have certainly not yet been resolved to satisfaction. There are new things contained in this law that undoubtedly favour the monitoring and control of the dangerous goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5867	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e5889	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's true that it's up to the 1st. It is true, however, that a number of things need to be changed. It is therefore appropriate to implement this decision now, so that it is clear: This is coming, and it must be refitted! That is why it is being done now, but I share the view that it should have been possible to decide on this ban already with the last transport package novelle. Although this ban on mobile phones appears to be a prelude to whether one is allowed to telephone or not, it is, in fact, the right to increase road safety in Austria. It is clear that the regulation to be adopted today will actually be a peanut in terms of road safety. It is quite a contribution, but in the range of Peanuts. I remember very well the debate on the 0.5-promille rule, which has repeatedly said that the real reason for the accidents in Austria is the excessive speed at which they are driven, and that we must therefore take measures to increase road safety by doing something against the excessive speed. But the coalition parties and the government, too, have not insisted that, as a result, we could only have discussed any measures in this House. This is the actual failure that must be condemned, and we must also bear in mind that the rules on increased road safety in Austria are actually very simple. The first rule for increased road safety in Austria should actually be: Take the train! You just don't need to drive by car anymore, but drive train! – This is the first rule that we should pay attention to in terms of greater road safety. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second rule for increased road safety in Austria, Mr Parnigoni, Chairman of the Transport Committee, should read: Drive at a reasonable speed! I repeat: On this point, although we had our own subcommittee, there are no measures proposed by the coalition parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] The third rule is – almost in advance of the point driver's license – Mr Lucisch: Drive fluently and don't drive aggressively! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] I didn't understand you, excuse me. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch:... Words I wanted to remind you of in order to relativize your statement that we would not have done anything in this area!]] No, no, no, Nothing's been done in terms of speed! You will not find any measures in the comprehensive motion for a resolution which has emerged from the Subcommittee. That's the real problem! I should like to remind you once again that the EIA has just rightly noted... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You want 80/100! Tell me!]] No, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Of course! 30/80/100!]] Mr Lukesch! Calm down! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Say it!]] Do not put something in my mouth that I did not say or mine, because you know that the speed rules we have in Austria should be better monitored. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The drivers are driving too fast!]] That was your call, too. But since we decided on the 0.5-promille limit in this House, you have done nothing more for this demand. Therefore, in my opinion, the argument at that time was a distraction maneuver, and it reveals itself as such over time, but this must be seen in the eye. Ladies and gentlemen! I repeat: This cell phone rule is necessary, but it's a peanut! Interestingly, the specific regulation to be adopted today also gives the Minister of State a regulatory authority which, taking into account the safety of transport and the state of the art, will allow him to regulate all the requirements for admissibility facilities. It also includes the interesting sentence: "Communication devices must comply with the requirements of product safety provisions for communication equipment." We have now talked in committee about the fact that this is in fact a doubling of what needs to be done anyway. The Federal Minister has admitted that it is a little exuberant. Nevertheless, choose the most bureaucratic way to be the master of this problem! I believe that this is the same line you've followed in the driving licence law with your own fire brigade license. It would have been easier to make this regulation, too. But you seem to have a slope to producing special bureaucracy. The fire brigade license was the first proof that this regulation is the second proof – and that alone in the last few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! That a penalty is due only if calling with a mobile phone during a stop according to § 97 para. 5 StVO is found to be the overwit! This means that only someone who, when won by the public security organs on the street side, calls down the disc and says: Mr Inspector, wait, because I have to make a call now, and it is punishable. If this is different, he is not punishable – so nothing is at all in passing by. [[Abg. Böhacker: There he is!]] That's not the right way. [[Abg. Böhacker: He can stand!]] Deputies! When it comes to understanding, I can give Mr Meischberger a little more information. [[Abg. Böhacker: Stand! Don't stand up!]] The bad connection between the free-phone systems during driving and the heavy understanding can also come that you are just too fast on the road. In this case, the interior noises in the car rise very much. It is much easier to drive a little slower, then you also understand very well with accommodating devices. In my opinion, these arguments are only proposed to be able to claim that there is no need for mobile phone regulation, although I admit that the concrete regulation made by the coalition parties is worthy of criticism, because it is not a simple but a very bureaucratic solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Another matter which is under discussion today, namely the Risk Promotion Act, is that the Liberals are again vehemently opposed to the Committee's decision by the coalition parties in the Committee. It is said that the Minister of State, who has a regulation in accordance with § 11 para. 2 and § 14 para. 1 To be adopted, an agreement must be reached at the social partners level in advance. In other words, a supreme body of enforcement may not adopt a regulation required by the law until the social partners have agreed in advance. That's overwhelming in this division. It would have been sufficient, Mr Parnigoni, Mr Kukacka, if it had been formulated in such a way that the Minister of State could work towards an agreement on this. But from a parliamentary point of view, to impose on the Minister of State as the supreme body of execution, that he may not adopt a regulation required by the law until the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce have agreed to it, is inappropriate and should have occurred to you as well. In any case, we think this is wrong and criticise it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! As a last point, I would like to add to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser and by Mr Meischberger, who are concerned with avoiding unnecessary proliferation of land-based, free-standing transmission systems. In particular, this will exclude the risk of health created by the construction and operation of these transmitters. We know that the pulsated radiation on this issue is treated quite differently, but a problem is generally overlooked: If you want to focus the transmission systems on a few points, that means that you have to increase field strength. But these are the real problem. For the transmission systems in their present form have such low field strength that, without being negligent, one can exclude a health hazard. Other documents have not yet come to my table. Now to demand a stronger concentration and fewer transmitters, which, of course, will require higher field strengths for the existing transmitters, I think is the wrong way. That is why we will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution in this form. For if we do, as if we were now going to link a process package in the House, taking more into account the use of the health method – you know, because of the construction process, the locals are already involved in the construction of transmission facilities – and thus give rise to the impression that something is going to be done against a alleged or potential health risk, but this must always be done to ensure that these objections are not taken into account, since the field strengths of the present transmitters are so deep, then I think this is a wrong approach, because then the impression that the concerns of the population are not perceived in the process. In my opinion, therefore, we should agree once again on the specific potential for danger in this House. It would be nice if we could have a discussion on this in committee and then re-open this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6048	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke next. She's not in the hall. The speech does not take place. Mr Dietachmayr is the next. – Mr deputies, you asked for a time limit of 3 minutes. If you stick to it, it went out. Otherwise, I must interrupt you at 3 p.m. because we have a question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6073	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the revision of the Aviation Act, it is primarily about the fact that, for the Linz/Hörsching airport, which was originally a military airport, it has become a civil airport in recent years, not the State Defense Ministry, but the Ministry of Transport as the competent authority. This seems to me to be very important in that there have been a lot of discussions about how flight times could be extended in recent times around Linz/Hörsching Airport. At present, there is a restriction to interrupt operations between 23 and 5 o'clock in the morning – i.e. a night flight ban. There are now massive efforts to avoid this night flight ban. In my view, it is not in the interest of the passengers to give in to this, because these additional flight movements at night, as the airport operators say, are to be freight flights that are particularly loud. It is certainly true that the people who settled there already knew at that time that they are living near an airport, but I think it is the good right of the population to be able to sleep in peace at least between 23 and 5 o'clock. There must therefore be no extension of night flights, as confirmed by the Upper Austrian Government. There is already a negative opinion from the relevant transport operator. In a letter to the Ministry of Transport, the competent Council of State writes that the proposal of the airport is designed to allow 200 to 400 additional night flight movements. For well-known reasons, the Land of Upper Austria could not give a positive opinion on the request of Airport AG. However, it is unfortunate that the work argument will again be speculated on this issue. The Vice-President of the Oberösterreich Chamber of Commerce says in the "Economic Chamber News": "A strict night flight ban at the Upper Austrian airport would gradually destroy hundreds of jobs in our federal state." [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this argument to be very weak, because what would then be at the airport Salzburg or Zurich/Kloten, where there is also a night flight ban between 22.30 and 5:00. What applies to the large Zurich airport must also apply to the relatively small Linz/Hörsching airport! I must ask you, Minister, not to give your consent to the attempts to open the night flight ban.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6121	I am now interrupting the negotiations on agenda items 6 to 9. Short debate on the reply to the question 4030/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6145	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 4030/AB. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the first speakers, 10 minutes, more speakers no more than 5 minutes and members of the Federal Government, or State Secretarys who have spoken, should not speak for more than 10 minutes. In the case of the first mentioned, it is a maximum limitation, the latter being a target provision. I now give the floor to Mr Böhacker for his reasons. As I said, 10 minutes maximum speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In the case of Austrian citizens and taxpayers, there is a broad uncertainty, an increasing concern, often even a legitimate fear to observe whether the demand, which has repeatedly been set up by the Social Democrats in particular, to increase the unit values of basic assets on transport values. The result would be that there would be an unbearable tax on substances, that the inheritance and gift tax would grow at huge heights, that due to the increase in the basic tax and a change in operating costs, it would result in an increase in the cost of rents and that this would ultimately be equivalent to annihilation of property. Halfhearted dementis from the ranks of the Social Democrats: It's all right! It's half that bad! If adjustment, then only moderate! are absolutely unbelievable. Too often there are statements of socialist grand, land and land to try to tax more massively in order to put the holes in the future budgets. And it is almost cynical when one has to hear again and again that one wants to tax land and land, i.e. land, higher because one cannot outsource property to low-tax countries. Because this is often demented by the Social Democrats, I have to quote some of the social democrats mentioned: The tax and financial spokesman of the Social Democrats, Member of the National Council Ewald Novotny, is quoted in the "EconomiesBlatt": "Since 1972, the main focus for the unit value of a property has not been redefined." The unit value must finally be adjusted to the transport value." [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I never said that!]] It's literally quoted, under quotation marks! Complain the "EconomiesBlatt"! I'll give you this issue. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Did you answer?]] It is typical: If something's in the paper, it says again and again: I never said that, that's not my opinion! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is typical! That also fits your ideology!]] Professor, come to the speaker's desk, dement, write a letter to the "Economic Sheet" and ask for a revocation of this statement! You know very well: If there's something under quotation in a newspaper, it's a literal quote. Don't be child-moving! Stand by what you have said or come Get out of here and demean this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Don't be afraid, it's coming!]] Secondly, Peter Schachner-Blazizek, no insignificant social democracy: Increase the taxation of land and land. - Listen, listen! That's probably not true either, probably not right. Or the social-democratic thinker, the hope for the future of the SPÖ, Herbert Prock, Landespartierobmann of Tyrol: "Higher unit values for basic taxes". - It's all right! The Socialists wash their hands in innocence. But these are the demands that are on the table. We liberals have therefore sent a written request to the Federal Minister for Finance in the interest of the enslaved Austrian taxpayers, which he knows, that is why he does not need to listen now, in order to finally find out what the state of things is. [[Federal Minister Edlinger talks to Abg. Dr. Muted]] Where's the trip going? How shamefully will the Minister of Finance get into citizens' money bags? The answer is more than sobering. But actually, I'm not surprised at all. For the time being, the Minister of Finance lets the Members in question die stupidly and simply. Once again, the Minister of Finance has hidden behind the Tax Reform Commission! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Again and again, when it fits him, he says that he has to wait for what the Tax Reform Commission says, and then he wants to be politically valued. The question, which is now the requirements of the Tax Reform Commission, has been answered in a comprehensive way, but all the questions relating to any increase in the basic tax have been answered in an elusive, superficial and unspeakable manner. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Six questions!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't know anything exactly!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: His specialty!]] Federal Minister! They have noted positively on question 3 – and this is commendable to mention – that, in the interests of equality and simplification of taxation through the determination of uniform values, a uniform assessment of economic goods considered as the subject of several taxes should be maintained. Completely d’accord, that's right. But at the same time put the rod in the window by writing: "However, I would also like to point out in this context that, according to the existing legal situation, the single value must in principle be based on the value of transport." – Legally in order, but this is the free letter for adjusting the unit values to the traffic values and thus for an increase. And if you know yourself in matter a little bit... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But please quote a paragraph now too! Be fair!]] Mr. Finanzminister, I'm already here. Now let's go into the depths. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: If you go deep, I already know how this goes on!]] How will the basic assets be evaluated? – On the one hand, unbuilt land, land and land, and on the other hand built land. – Unbuilt land must be assessed with the common value. The common value has nothing to do with "common" but is, rather, somewhat simplified, presented to Mr. Federal Minister, the value of sale, that is the value that would have to be used in the course of a sale under personal responsibility. So much to the unbuilt plots. That is, with one word, you can, according to the existing legal situation, increase the unit value of the unbuilt plots to the traffic value. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How are buildings now being evaluated? Buildings are evaluated with the repair costs – you hear and marvel! – minus deductions depending on the age of the building. There too, Mr Finanzminister, if you are carrying out a new main position, you have the opportunity to adjust the values of land and land and buildings to transport values without having to change the legal framework conditions. Now I expect you to make clear and clear the political statement that you have also described in the reply to the question relating to the basic tax. You write: "Without wishing to prejudge the results of the Tax Reform Commission, however, I can assure you now that the mentioned simplification of the basic tax will certainly not find my support." – Very finely defined! [[Abg. Edler: Clear statement!]] Do you want the triple, the quadruple – the multiple we leave off –, the renunciation, the tenfolding? Mr Finanzminister! Explain You are here and today to the House, the citizen outside, that you are not at your disposal for an increase in the basic tax, for an increase in unit values to the values of transport. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's the Gretchen question!]] That's what we want to hear from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Finanzminister, there is an excellent comment in the magazine "The Owner". Heading: "Game with hidden cards": "Whoever knows the corner from which the former Vienna City Councillor and now Finance Minister Rudolf Edlingerideologically-politically comes, trusts him to go from the unit values for property and property to the system of transport values today rather than tomorrow. (...) Rudolf Edlinger" – and that's where I commit myself to the commentator – "but also political tacticers are enough to not let the cat out of the bag of the flattening of the basic tax before the 1999 super-election year." [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The "red cat" was always called that!]] "In this way, however, it can be assumed with certainty that until after the national elections, the cat is expected to remain in the bag (or even earlier) in autumn 1999 and the SPÖ is playing with hidden cards to try it again after beaten elections." Federal Minister! Finally leave the cat out of the bag and tell you what the state of things is! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Not the red one!]] We liberties will not give our approval to such tax increases, for one thing is clear: The load addicts of recent years have been big enough!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6422	Mr Dr. Novotny has now been reported on the floor. - Please. Mr. Minister, have you spoken? - No, I don't. I do not know a word from the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny comes to the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Edlinger.]] Mr Novotny, you are on the floor. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He doesn't want to!]] Maximum speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6466	Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to coordinate this properly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Coordination defects!]] I note that there is obviously a new tactic of the FPÖ, namely the tactics of vehement opening open doors. Yesterday you turned vehemently against child pornography, as if anyone in this house were for child pornography. So you ran in completely open doors. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: On the matter!]] Yeah, I'm already there. Today, you are opposed to a massive increase in basic taxes, as if there were anyone in this House who would stand for a massive increase in basic taxes. [[Call out to the liberals: you!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You drive Edlinger ahead! Edlinger doesn't want to!]] Here you build a pop or try to invent the fairy tale of the "red cat". I have to let you down: Something's been tried with this fairy tale, and it's gone wrong. It'll go wrong with you too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What Mr Böhacker said here today was in principle a description of the current legal situation. I mean, that's correct. What is not quite clear to me is what you draw from it for conclusions. Do you want to abolish the current legal state? – I think that would probably not be entirely in line with what you would like to do otherwise. [[Abg. Böhacker: I want to hear a little practice!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A sieve-folding? A bluff?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] As far as the question of basic taxation is concerned, I can give you a very clear and clear answer. All that is available in this relation to public discussion is based on statements by Professor Heidinger of the University of Graz, a tax advisor and a member of the tax reform commission. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer:... is everything not true!]] Heidinger has written a paper for the Tax Reform Commission. [[Abg. Böhacker: When did he write that?]] He pointed out two things in this paper. First of all, he pointed out – and this is indisputable – that there has been no re-establishment of unit values for a considerable time and that there is a problem of horizontal fiscal justice, because the value of the individual land has, of course, evolved differently. Heidinger pointed out that this would create the risk of a constitutional problem. The German Federal Constitutional Court has also repealed these regulations, as you may know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is none of our concern, the German Federal Constitutional Court!]] Look, my colleague, you don't know anything about all this, either, you're not interested in it. I am talking to those who may have been concerned about this in terms of content. It would be good if you went a little out of the shot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There's a surprise! That's a good passage!]] Secondly, Heidinger – and this is now the sensitive area – has proposed in this paper to increase the basic tax and to reduce the local tax. At the same time, he wanted to abolish the inheritance tax with a blow. If you know the background of Mr Heidinger, you know that it was a very business-friendly position he assumed. A number of newspaper articles have then been founded on it. – This is, as it were, the basis on which the whole is built. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to say very clearly: The Tax Reform Commission has not yet completed its work. There are therefore no official documents of the Tax Reform Commission. The Tax Reform Commission works under confidentiality. However, I would like to say quite clearly: The ideas made by Mr Heidinger are completely unrealistic from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Both the Federal Minister of Finance and I only wrote 14 days ago – I do not know what you quoted – when this came back to the House, a broadcast, which was also brought by the newspapers and in which I expressly stated: This position Heidingers is unrealistic and is neither shared by the Minister of Finance nor by me. – I believe that this doll should finally have an end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Tell me, you just want a triple instead of a triple! That's what I want to hear from you!]] Mr President, I should like to thank One last point, in all sobriety: You should be aware that the tax at issue here is the basic tax. The basic tax is a tax that comes only to the municipalities. That is to say, the Minister of Finance has no fiscal interest in this tax at all. If you do not believe anything else – this point should convince you!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6672	On the occasion of a short debate, I note that no actual corrections can be made in the case of a short debate. This is stated in § 57a Abs. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mühlbachler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6697	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out in principle today's short debate. I believe that this short debate today is more than unnecessary. [[Abg. May. Dad: If it was right?]] The fact is that the Tax Reform Commission has taken over the task of putting proposals on the table once. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then why did you make a statement? That's a voluntary speech!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why are you talking?]] You have just heard that the tax reform commission has not yet put on the table the announced variety of proposals. That is why I think a discussion at the moment about rumors that have been spread somewhere is unnecessary. I should like to make this clear and clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] For the second. For the basic tax I say stone and clear: The basic tax is a municipal tax and the municipalities are affected by it. I am not very concerned that the basic tax will change substantially, for the following reason – and here, ladies and gentlemen, you should go a little further into the depths: I have made an investigation in my district into the extent to which the basic tax can be substituted by the municipal tax or vice versa by the basic tax, because that was someplace in the conversation. I can tell you right away: This substitution is almost impossible because, for example, the municipality of Freistadt would have to levy the fourfold tax on land so that the municipal tax would be substituted, and the neighbouring municipality of Grünbach would have to lift it one and a half times. They see, therefore, that there is such a difference in weight within the municipalities that the municipal finances would be confused and shaken on a broadest basis. Therefore: We can talk about everything, and it must also apply to the Tax Reform Commission that it has freedom of thought. But if the ideas are on the table, then it will certainly be our task to go into the depths and discuss what these proposals make. One last point, Mr Böhacker, is the approximation of unit values to transport values. It's not about five times, it's about ten to twenty times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Of course, for the fact is that the last one-value determination took place in 1973, that in 1983 the value ratios were increased by 35 per cent and that these ratios would have to be increased by ten times in 1973 in order to reach the unit values at all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It would have been really better if you hadn't spoken today!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is she too low for you?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You always believe you have to sow fear and insecure the citizens. They will not believe that it would be possible with an ÖVP in the government to change something essential in this building. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] We can guarantee that and stand straight for it! Your fear is where you're still believed. But those who believe in you will be less and less thanks to God. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! My contribution should only be to show that the EIA is on the one hand committed to the principle that the tax reform committee should in principle have freedom of thought...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6817	Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6833	... but on the other hand, you really have to be very careful when it comes to actual changes. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6863	Mr Ing. Nut trees. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6884	Mr President. Federal Minister! In reply to the question, you mentioned only the subject areas to be dealt with by the Tax Reform Commission. That is why Mr Novotny immediately felt like putting the one-value discussion as a populace. But that's not a pop, because colleague Mühlbachler has exposed himself here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In reply to the question by the Federal Minister, it is also clear that, according to the existing legal situation, the single value must in principle be based on the value of transport. [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: As a percentage of course!]] And in the answer to question 4 to 14, he says that only the mentioned reduction of the basic tax certainly does not find its support. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you: How many times will the basic tax find your support? You should have answered that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: You didn't ask me that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Mühlbachler said it!]] Minister! This response is in itself very, very general and does not address the principles. The principles are missing. Obviously, you want to continue to disregard the principles of trust, the disregard of the principles of trust which have resulted from retroactive tax laws during this legislative period, for example by the retroactive abolition of the half-income tax rate or by the change in the transfer of silent reserves or by the new scheme for assrelation measures. Hiezu lacks your clear word in the answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the answer to this question also lacks the formulation of competition strategies with the aim of ending the resignation of disappointed investors or avoiding years of dispute or of preventing the tax evasion that you have fought with, I say, inadequate means by significantly improving taxation morals. They obviously do not plan a tax reform aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the economy by significantly reducing the tax rate. You could have sent a signal in this respect too. Therefore, we liberals – and it would be good if you were able to take a clear position here – demand to reduce the tax rate from currently 45.7 percent to 40 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! However, we do not want a machine tax which would further increase the quality deficit of the Austrian economy; the qualitative deficit expressed in the low export unit value. A tax reform must be aimed at reducing to zero the external trade deficit, which alone with the EU last year amounted to 101.4 billion schilling. Only in this way will you clean up your budget and then be able to distribute it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to return to this colported increase in unit values: I would warn against this because it would affect tens of thousands of farm transfers by generation change, especially in the near future. There would be a significant reduction in equity. This would be particularly disastrous for the tourism industry, disastrous for all SMEs. That is why we call for no change here. I'm coming to the end now. I say all of this also in the light of the fact that the development of the equity ratio in Austria's enterprises is still unsatisfying and, therefore, there is always a need for capital increases with foreign capital. Instead of slowing down, you would achieve an acceleration in the sale of the Austrian economy. And don't forget, Minister of Finance, that the two tax packages have so far required 147 billion schilling of purchasing power to the Austrian citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e6980	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we are discussing local funding, which is on two legs, and I believe that both legs are in need of reform. The current financial compensation runs until 2001, and at the latest then we will have to break our minds about whether the graduated population key in the existing form is still entitled in a new world of communities. And so is direct municipal funding on the wrong basis. The drinking tax – Mr Federal Minister – I have been able to prove it to you more often – is not sustainable in the euro area because it will lead to large-scale buy power outflows, which continuously erode and narrow the tax base. And the municipal tax – it is already necessary to repeat it again and again – is a labour cost-increasing part of the additional wage costs. It is wrong to tax the tax object work if you want more work. So there are already around 26 to 27 billion schilling in the air in direct municipal funding, because they are lifted in the municipalities on the wrong basis of taxation. The third major pillar of community funding in the direct area is the basic tax. Professor Novotny has just made a brief statement from the German tax debate that it is not credible to restore uniform values, which one has been subject to a major fix in 1972, now only in percentage terms, because the plots have developed different values. So it will be necessary, in spite of all political fear of making a new main statement, which has nothing to do with the basic tax level yet, but this distortion of competition, this inequality in the value development of land, is to be noted in a new main statement. Because in reality, it is the communities that hold air over their lifting sets, Hermann! – finally determine the amount of the basic tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] The question now is just how the countries deal with the refusal or advocating of allocations of needs when they say: You'll only get a need assignment if you've completely lifted all your taxes. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: Mr Peter! If you need a credit, then you need a big and high basic value! And it can't be the goal to change the basic values and the values of unity because of high loans that must be secured!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The speaker is speaking!]] Mr. Ing. Nut trees! That's not the point. If we do not want to have a populist discussion now, if we do not want to build a large population of land tax here, then we have to discuss the fact that, for a quarter of a century, these values of unity have not been established in themselves. The question of how high the basic tax is is a question of lifting sets, and the lifting sets are first a decision of the communities... – My God, Jörg Haider, you just have flat calls. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is smooth Communism!]] You have to think about a biterl before making such calls. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Oils.]] It is now about the basic tax and the very specific question on which basis it takes place and who decides the lifting rates. – The lifting sets decide on the communities. The next point is: Is a substance tax possible at all? [[Abg. Haigermoser: De facto the country!]] Dear Helmut Haigermoser! The number of your calls vice versa is proportional to your knowledge of this matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Yes, yes, I know; I don't really want to answer all that comes to my right ear anymore. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I am so glad that I hear so badly on the right ear. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Alois Huber!]] We shall now come to the next question: how do we deal with the overall taxation of substances? I reject a substance tax in principle, because I believe we should tax income rather than the substance. With one exception – and this is the argument for the basic tax –: The more a property owner has in his municipality, the more part he has in municipal services. So it is justified. Summary: I believe that, first of all, we must have the political courage to make a new main statement that we must change the powers of the communities, that is to say, to reduce the question of their lifting rates, which they can decide autonomously in the municipal council. And thirdly, it is not a question of abolishing new taxes, but of getting under control the direct municipal financing that is now being lifted on the wrong basis with the base of drinking tax and municipal tax. The 27 billion schilling of drinking tax and municipal tax, which we now collect directly in the municipality area, are necessary in order to give the communities an incentive to become economically active in direct financing. If they do so on a false basis, we must find a new form of direct municipal funding. I believe that the way through financial compensation, through a key to employment and also through the sale of drinks, which can be determined per municipality, could be a new form of direct local financing. The previous discussion was not useful in this sense!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7143	Mr Oellinger is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7165	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It was Mr Mühlbachler who said: If the ideas are on the table, then it is our job to look into the depths. I don't know, colleague Mühlbachler, where the depth is or what's deep. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is relative!]] But the matter we've discussed here today was obviously not deep enough. Maybe it's something else deep you want to look at. In all cases, I am missing when discussing this issue – and now not with the basic tax, but with the general issue that is underlying, because the question refers not only to the basic tax – the depth. What I heard was a more or less skillful defense from Professor Novotny, who said that it was not for the debate, that was the consideration of a professor. But what I would rather have heard from you, Professor Novotny, would be whether raising the basic tax is an appropriate means of achieving more distribution justice. Of course, I am not satisfied with the statements made by my colleagues by the liberals, who now represent themselves alongside the representatives of the workers as the legitimate representatives of real estate. Perhaps it would actually burden Dr. Haider if the basic tax were increased. [[Call the Freeman:Pius Strobl!]] Perhaps that would really be the problem of the liberals! But that cannot be the issue we are discussing. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pius Strobl is the largest real estate agent!]] I'm talking about the owners, Dr. Haider. I'm not talking about the real estate agents, I'm talking about the real estate owners, and there you are not just a small one! And I could imagine that raising the basic tax on a transport value would cost you a little more if your company went so well. But that's not necessarily my topic. I'm interested in: Is the increase in the basic tax or the increase in unit values on the value of transport actually an appropriate means to create more distribution justice in the tax system? And that's where I have my doubts. However, these doubts have not yet been clearly expressed. Who would be burdened by the increase? – The farmers, partly also the tenants. What would be the German Government's answer to this question? – Derogations or the like? I would have been interested in this debate: What tax increases are actually suitable and imaginable in the field of real estate in order to produce a little more distribution-righteousness? Federal Minister! An answer from you to this question would already interest me, not just one to the question: What are we going to do with the values of unity, and will it really come to this destruction of property which the liberals obviously already see intoxicating? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ask the Wabl how the little farmer is doing!]] Dr. Haider! You should have listened to me. That was a sentence I said earlier. That could be a problem. But this can only be discussed by talking about distribution justice in this context. There is no single word in the debate, especially not from your side, about the distribution justice of the tax system. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh yes!]] It cannot be said that the self-employed workers, whom you always want to protect, are the carriers of this tax system and are to be used by the cold progression and, and, to carry the tax burden alone. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do not redistribute, but let people earn something!]] If there are also considerations that concern other groups, you also shout. So you already have to decide: For whom, in whose interest and for what purpose should tax justice or distribution justice be created, and what taxes are appropriate for this? It would have been a debate that could have led to the depths. But this depth was actually not given in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7264	Mr Edlinger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7285	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am, of course, very happy when there is a debate on tax policy which, even if it is debated only by one facet, helps to increase the awareness on a number of occasions, and this is a prerequisite for discussing, as openly as possible, problems that arise. On the other hand, I regret that the debate on such a serious subject, which obviously has to be subjected to a very comprehensive consideration, remains on one aspect if we want to achieve what we have done, even if it can be of great importance. Any change in a tax system creates concern and is exorbitantly important for each individual who falls into the group of those concerned. But it is only a small area of a comprehensive tax reform that we are actually attacking. I would like to say the following openly: However many questions may arise, I shall certainly not be able to explain anything before it is clear, first of all, to what extent we are able to undertake a tax reform, also in relation to other economic needs, and secondly, as well as those structural changes in tax policy that we need in economic policy. And as a third, not insignificant aspect, because any tax reform, whether it fits us or is not, of course, also applied social policy, is also important to me in terms of social balance. And under these criteria I am addressing the solution to this problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the occasion of the 1999 budget debate – and more so, if one wants to remain serious, it cannot be said that tax policy is, in fact, far too serious for me to contribute in some way to the confusion of people with varying announcements – there will be no clear and clear change in the implementation of the 1998 budget or in the 1999 budget. Of course, under some circumstances stronger consolidations would be quite positive – I give the right to anyone who thinks it may not be quite ambitious if this does not happen – but I am also concerned – in fact it was not easy to explain the consolidation rate expressed in the 1996 and 1997 budgets to the public accordingly – that the 1998 and 1999 budgets are also used to replace the one-time measures – and I repeat it for the fifth time; I have to say it again and again, because I often feel that some certain arguments do not want to hear – in the 1996 and 1997 budgets we need to replace them with structural changes so that we can also move towards a sustainable stability policy in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More than a year ago, I asked the Tax Reform Commission to take action, with a clear objective, which we are actually imagining. I was indeed incredibly detailed when answering your request, quite contrary to my other rule, as I could see when I read it more precisely now. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A good official!]] Obviously I answered too many questions relatively quickly. Not that I'm sorry... orderly, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are obliged to provide proper information!]] But, Mr Haider, you cannot imagine that I would have done something disorderly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Extensive" and "ordinary" are even semantic two different pairs of shoes. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your savings package is at least not very neat, because expenditure is limited and revenue is increased! That even says your coalition partner!]] I do not know what you are talking about, because on and on, there are two measures I have taken within the framework of those two budgets which I am responsible for, and I am surprised that you are against them. These are measures which I have set up to protect the Austrian economy in view of the not particularly delicate cigarette imports. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's something else!]] No, that's four and a half billion, not something else! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: For this you have collected 147 billion!]] But You have never mentioned this in any way, and I am glad, even when it comes to an intervening call, that at least you do not think that some measures are absolutely inappropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have therefore answered very detailedly on the point two of the request made by Members of the Liberal Party, but of course we need to know what is meant by the individual points. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I assume that in your party there are, of course, a number of experts who know what it means to talk about the discharge factor work, which is what is meant by it. I would like to say once again: With regard to tax reform 2000 – and with 2000 the year is meant – the Tax Reform Commission has commissioned until the autumn of this year... [[Abg. Böhacker: Last!]] In autumn: Even the late autumn is autumn, right? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Committee on Taxation therefore has the task of presenting a final report in the autumn of this year. I would really like to tell you clearly because, I believe, by Mr Böhacker, the second time the accusation has been raised, I am hiding behind the tax reform committee: No, it is not, but I do not abuse the Tax Reform Commission, and I therefore give it the time necessary to draw up a proper reform in all facets, so that it is actually presented in such a way that something can be done with it. The orders to the Tax Reform Commission – I am now just quoting point 2 of the four main points, as I have put them to you in the reply to the question – are quite clear: We want to relieve labour in the interests of improving the economic location of Austria. In this respect, there are a few possibilities. We have to check the additional wage costs; there are also a few ways to achieve this. And the task of the Tax Reform Commission must be to consider, from the technical side, but also from the effects in variations, what it means when I turn to this or that amount of additional wage costs. This is because the additional wage costs – which sounds superficially, simply considered – are an essential part of the financing of the Austrian social system. You can't forget that! There are people who are concerned when you turn at this little girl, and it is my responsibility to think carefully before you start a discussion of points that ultimately need to be explained to the public and understood by the people of our Republic. This takes a little time, and I am therefore not very impressed when you pick it up in one place. – So this is in order to relieve the factor of work. A second area is, of course, to examine other tax elements, namely their effectiveness, their effectiveness and, ultimately, the maintenance of social symmetry. The third area was also to consider resource taxation. I do not think it is necessary to stress that this is only possible in a European equation. [[Abg. Böhacker: We've heard that for five years! There we were more than now!]] Yes, excuse me, you're acting as if we'd prevented your resource taxes. And now that Mr Prinzhorn is present: I am very glad that I can tell him that he completely misinterprets me, as far as those considerations that I have given to ECOFIN for European tax harmonisation are concerned. This is not about developing upwards, but about justice in order to prevent distortions of competition. There are, of course, specific national considerations, but this is ultimately also the art of the discussions over the next few months to find a balance of interest between the individual states. In principle – this part of the ECOFIN session was public, so I do not tell you anything new – was absolutely no one against it, quite the contrary, all 14 other partners in the European Union have welcomed the work programme I presented as the Austrian Finance Minister for the next six months, because I have raised important questions because I have prepared them in a form that also makes them aware of the willingness to discuss, even where one considers another, and because I am actually convinced that a common economic union also needs a harmonised tax policy. [[Abg. Dipl. Ing. Prinzhorn: That's what we've been saying for a long time!]] Yeah, but you know, if two say the same thing, it's often not the same. I am Finance Minister, and I will try to arrange with my colleagues – in the interests of the matter. They always build up cardboard soldiers. If I say anything, it's a tax increase. This is simply and completely wrong, I am telling you that in all its clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So far it has voted! All you did was raise!]] No, I have not raised any taxes at all, Mr Haider, I am really sorry, no, not at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 15 percent of the wage tax!]] I am going along with that responsibility that is necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He doesn't know his budget!]] And something else: It is now claimed in Parliament for the third time that the tax rate in Austria is 45.7 percent. This has long been corrected by EUROSTAT, honourable Member, to 44.2 percent due to GDP growth. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: With this, you are still 4 percent above the EU average!]] For example, the country you mention, Mr Prinzhorn, namely Holland, has a tax rate of 45.2 per cent, and today in your issue you say that we should take Dutch as an example. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I no longer know what you really want from me, because if I take the Dutch as an example, I have to do the following: increase the tax rate in Austria and employ 40 percent of the people part-time. – This is a policy I do not like, Mr Prinzhorn – whether you like it or not. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I say to you openly: We will be preparing a tax reform that will give the answer to important questions in this country, a major tax reform that will certainly not meet all the wishes. But I have an objective, and I say that in all clarity, and therefore I am grateful for your request: I will make a tax reform that guarantees the Austrians a savings package in 2001 or 2002, as you always claim. This is my political objective, because tax packages are not the policies I really want to represent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7534	Thank you very much, Minister of State. The text of the Rules of Procedure has been used. That concludes the debate. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7558	We now come to another short debate on a deadline request. This short debate concerns the request made by Mrs Mag. Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Application 420/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, is limited to a period of 16 years. ==References== After this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are now going into the debate. Mrs Stoisits is speaking on the floor. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. The other speakers then spoke for a maximum of 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7594	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Poštovani gospodin predsednik! [[Call:German speaking]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to welcome you very warmly. On 20.3.1997, on behalf of the Green Group, I tabled a request to the Constitutional Committee, where there was also a debate in the form of a first reading to amend the Federal Constitution with the aim of deciding on a so-called State objective of respecting, preserving, promoting and protecting the linguistic and cultural diversity of the Republic of Austria. This proposal by the Greens to supplement Article 8 of the Austrian Constitution involves only one sentence, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to read to you again; so briefly is the request – which does not mean that it would not be weighty. This sentence reads as follows: "The Republic of Austria acknowledges its growing linguistic and cultural diversity. This diversity must be respected, preserved, promoted and protected." An independent commitment by the Republic of Austria to respect, safeguard, promote and protect linguistic and cultural diversity has so far been lacking in our constitution. Minorities are mentioned and protected in a number of ways, including at constitutional level – keyword: Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty, but also the Volksgruppengesetz on a simple legal level, is mentioned here – but what is missing is a commitment by the Republic to the diversity of languages and cultures – in order to say it a little salopp – prominent position in the federal constitution. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of submitting this request does not come as much from me, but rather comes from you, ladies and gentlemen, and it comes from other politicians and government members, from the Federal President who, after the tragic events in Oberwart and after the letter bomb series, left nothing untry – that is, positive – in order to keep mentioning the linguistic and cultural diversity in Austria, to support it and to emphasize what great value it is. This has led us to believe that it makes sense to make this request. That it has made sense, ladies and gentlemen, and is still making sense, has shown the first reading, and the colleagues of the opposition parties, but also Mag. Posch from the SPÖ and Mr Klubobmann Khol have here this idea, not only appreciated these considerations, but also approved and supported them. This was all last year, ladies and gentlemen, and since then nothing has happened. With this Green request, nothing has happened – it has been assigned to the Constitutional Committee, it rests there – but it is not only what motivates me to ask you to set a deadline for the Constitutional Committee to deal with the request, but it is also the fact that the Austrian peoples, represented by officials of organizations, are members of the People's Advisory Council, who have already handed over to us parliamentarians, but also to the Federal Chancellor as a competent member of the government more than a year ago, namely in June last year, the Memorandum of the Austrian People's Groups. A central point of this memorandum – and memoranda, ladies and gentlemen, there is not so much in the popular group policy – is also the demand for a so-called state target with a content such as that which I have formulated, or similar, with which it would be possible to further imagine. Other countries, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the Advisory Board members and the organisations have repeatedly stressed in both the Memorandum and many other public opinions, go far beyond that. One example is Switzerland, which has a completely different understanding in this regard. But the idea and the demand is not new in Austria either. The Austrian rectors' conference has already proposed in 1989 that the law on the protection of the ethnic groups and the promotion and preservation of cultural diversity should be laid down by law, not as a simple regulation, but in the People's Group Act, but in the constitutional order. 1989, this has been a while since now, and a lot has now happened. A lot of positive things have happened, and a lot of negative things have also happened, which, of course, is not directly the responsibility of the legislator or a non-acting legislator, but the legislator has the responsibility to create the conditions for many things to be possible or possible, which is not yet possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only at national level, but also at international level, there is a lot to be done because Austria is also sparse. It has not been too long since we ratified the framework convention here, but, ladies and gentlemen, another document, which is older – in the sense of Austria already signed earlier – has not yet been ratified by Parliament, namely the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. That is to say, it is worth just the paper on which it stands because it is only a declaration of intent and is not transformed into national law. No one can call for it. In my opinion, there is no plausible explanation, not to do so, or only one that is allowed: one is afraid that real rights and claims or at least a concrete basis for demands arising from the ratification of this Charter. Ladies and gentlemen! I could continue this list now. The standstill in popular policy regarding the legal conditions is more than obvious. It is not only the request of the Greens in the Constitutional Committee, but there is peace – almost tomb rest! – in the general community policy. The persons responsible for this must be named, yes, they must be clearly identified: It's the legislator. I now come to what happened at 8.30 a.m. today at the meeting of the main committee. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There is no initiative to ratify!]] No, I am not talking about ratification, but about the work of the main committee, which for the time being has not been able to get through to decide on a proposal that the Federal Government has introduced in this case. That's a game that's just driving huge flowers: The Government decides to submit a regulation to the main committee, but the main committee simply withdraws it from the agenda twice, with the consequence that it is not possible to implement the right of groups of the Styrian Slovenians to be appointed to the existing Advisory Board for the Slovenian People's Group. However, the desire to do so has long been deposited by the Federal Chancellor's Office, for otherwise the Council of Ministers would not have decided on the regulation and presented it to the main committee. This was argued – for which I have absolutely no understanding – with the reciprocity: We are only doing something for our Styrian Slovenians when the Slovenians have done something for their minority in Slovenia. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we turned this process into other policies, we would look "beautifully"! I don't want to imagine the consequences. [[Abg. Young: Imagine it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is a profoundly embarrassing process, for there will be a right that has been in constitutional rank since 1955 – namely, the fact that there are legal claims on the part of the Styrian Slovenians: Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty – consciously, deliberately and willfully disregarded by the National Council!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7654	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7670	I think that is incomprehensible and unbearable. That is why I would like to have a discussion on the objective of the State in order to bring this process to a close. I would ask you to agree to this request for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7703	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Posch. From now on, the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7724	Mr President. High house! Mrs Stoisits has already said that this attempt to anchor a confession by the Republic of Austria in the Constitution is not at all so much an idea of the Greens, but also an idea of the Government parties, especially after the events of the Supreme Guard. I share this idea and I regret that progress in this context is very slow and very tough. I'd like to have a faster pace. So far, there has been no independent commitment by the Republic of Austria to minorities in the federal constitution, if one looks away from the international treaties of Saint Germain and Vienna towards the victorious Allies. But there has been for centuries a common development, a common tradition with different languages, cultures and religions in our territory, and we can be proud of this diversity. I support all efforts aimed at integration, particularly with regard to the painful history that minorities in Austria had to experience in this century. In this context, I am thinking in particular of the persecution or fast extinction of the Roma and Sinti in the "Third Reich". For this reason, we Socialists support the spirit of this objective, although we would rather have chosen a different wording, namely that the Republic of Austria acknowledges its ethnic, linguistic, cultural and ethnic groups and their resulting linguistic diversity. This wording would correspond to the Memorandum of Understanding of the Austrian Groups, which presented it to the Federal Government and the National Council in the previous year and which calls for the inclusion of such a state target in the constitutional rank. Although the legal character of such a state objective is not significant, a clear commitment by the Republic to its minorities would be very welcome. Although some progress has been made in the past – Mrs Stoisits has already said: the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities has been signed – unfortunately, for years, the language charter has still been ratified. I have to say that here. And unfortunately – and I would like that too – there is no agreement on the question of the Styrian Slovenians until today, because the junkimation with the cultural agreement with the Republic of Slovenia makes this impossible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I meant they didn't find one!]] – I don’t know, I would think that’s a contradiction. Since the government has decided by regulation to increase the Advisory Council of the Groups, I believe that it has reached some agreement before. That is why I would like to welcome this very much. A deadline for the summer, up to 16. We will not join Social Democrats on September before the beginning of the part-session. However, we share the spirit of the State objective, and we would also like to see faster progress in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7762	Mr Wurmitzer has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7783	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to make clear here with a malicious statement in the explanations on Mrs Stoisits' request. You write in your explanatory statement: The Republic of Austria lacks an independent commitment to respect, safeguard, promote and protect linguistic and cultural diversity. – Have you never read the People's Group Law, Mrs Stoisits? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: In the Constitution!]] There it is quite clear – I quote literally –: The ethnic groups in Austria and their families enjoy the protection of the laws. The conservation of the ethnic groups and the safeguarding of their holdings are guaranteed. Their language and their people are to be respected. - Quote. This is black on white here, and you claim exactly the opposite in your request statement! - I'll come to see you again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is not in constitutional rank!]] Just because your maneuver is so transparent, we will not agree to your request for deadlines by the ÖVP. For us, there are two reasons that are important for this. First of all, Mrs Colleague: There are many political questions that can be dealt with under time pressure – but certainly not a question: the sensitive area of the ethnic groups! You can't solve that under time pressure. This is a way of preventing a possible consensus, and we need this consensus in particular on this issue. I also noticed the date you used: 16. ==References== So you want to use the summer break of this House for such negotiations. I can tell you the following: The People's Party rejects a deadline – in particular one that falls into the summer break. The second reason why we cannot agree to a deadline is that we do not at present see at all an acute need for action. It is clearly regulated by minority law in Austria in both constitutional and legislative terms. Since 1955, the State Treaty with Article 7 has been in force in Austria, and this Austrian State Treaty is directly applicable and valid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] That's a fact. Unlike what you say, Austria is the first state in Central Europe to have such a rule since 1955. It also raises the question of whether a constitutional provision does not conflict with the provisions of Article 7 of the State Treaty. We therefore want to examine this question in detail. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Don't worry! I've been dealing with this for a very long time – unlike you!]] – You always know everything better, we hear it from your mouth every day. But let us not be guided by your opinions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We could see on television yesterday that you have an disturbed relationship with the Republic of Austria and its citizens. Don't want us to follow you on this path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since 1976, Austria has had a comprehensive People's Group Act. [[Abg. Wabl: You should not abuse the speaker's seat...!]] There are six national councils, 52 million schilling are spent annually on the promotion of groups. In addition, there will be 15 million schilling for the promotion of bilingual media. Not included in this sum are the cost of bilingual education in Austria. Austria also has an exemplary minority school system that we can all be proud of. I would like to address Mr Smolle at this point: I remember very well when we discussed minority education. At the time, I have already pointed out that it will once again be glad that Austria has made such a scheme and that, in particular, Carinthia has passed an implementing law which we can produce everywhere in Europe. Of course, there are always open wishes on minority issues, but we believe that they should first be discussed in the national councils and addressed to the government by the national councils. That's their own task. In our opinion, the national councils should be upgraded and, above all, members of the national councils should be determined in a democratic pre-election procedure. I can also tell you that we do not currently agree to a decision by the Slovenian People's Advisory Council in the main committee because we do not want to interrupt negotiations with our southern neighboring country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Federal Government wanted to "distort"?- Oh, my God!]] We therefore believe that a strengthening of the legitimacy of the advisory committees would significantly increase the status of the advisory committees. We also believe that concrete measures by the Slovenian minority are more useful than your statements.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7907	The next speech is by Mr Graf. – Please, Mr Delegate,
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7929	Mr President. High house! It is important that we in this House talk more about state objectives in the future. Therefore, the Freedom Party will support both the request for deadlines and further support the intention to do so. Mr Wurmitzer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Wurmitzer for his excellent report. One can always do better and still do more, but I think Austria has set milestones in the people's group question in a European comparison since 1945. We would also like to see at European level such a people's group law in which the cultural and linguistic minorities are protected accordingly – not only in Austria but throughout Europe! My group and I think this is very, very important. We have already anchored a similar commitment to the groups of peoples in our party programme – and I assume that you have read it relatively carefully. We have there, in the sense of a state target, honoured the ethnic groups accordingly and also anchored them as a political party. We would like to see it, if this were expressed in the Austrian Constitution, where we could certainly talk about the wording. This is also the subject of the Committee's discussion. I therefore do not understand at all why the ÖVP needs enormous time for the anchoring of a sentence. This sentence reads as follows: The Republic of Austria acknowledges its growing linguistic and cultural diversity. This diversity must be respected, preserved, promoted and protected. In this context, I do not know primarily what time problem You have and what You have to question everything, whether you really want a state target with this intention in the Constitution or not. I don't understand that. And that has nothing to do with whether the Styrian Slovenians are now recognized or not. Although this would be another problem to be solved – albeit important – but has nothing to do with the objective of the state. In fact, Austria should be given a signal that this intention should also be recorded in the Constitution, and that should also be a signal to our European neighbours that they may be like us within the framework of the European Community. We could be strong enough to ensure that the people's question can and will at last be solved accordingly and justly. This might also be a signal to the candidate countries to join the European Union, which, as a general rule, did not provide sufficient protection for the groups in their legal systems. However, if we ourselves are not even willing to anchor such a state objective in our constitution, the candidate countries will well ask us why they should then anchor it or even live it. In this context, I refer again to the already well-known provisions of some Beneš decrees or to the Partisan decisions of the AVNOJ, with regard to which the Republic of Austria actually does not go any further. [[Complaints with the liberals]] With this symbol and signal effect, we could go forward with a good example and call for something that is important and right for our neighbours. I would like to stress once again: We express our support for both – for the setting of deadlines and for the intention – because it has not least been our colleague, Ofner, who, for almost 15 years in this House, has constantly called for such a fixed statement as a state target in our constitution, wishes and also drives forward. I am sorry that Greens and Liberals in a medial summer hole are trying to raise capital from this question. [[Abg. Wabl: Mediales Sommerloch! That was always the highest ceiling of the FPÖ! Also in the Causa Rosenstingl!]] But if it serves the matter, it should be right and cheap. That's all right, let's do it like that! The main purpose of this is to ensure that this requirement is finally implemented. I hope that on this question, too, the EIA will get sometime so far that it will confess to the minorities and not always give Sunday's speeches. As the incidents were addressed by Oberwart: In this context, too, the promises of the German Chancellor Vrannitzky on the spot to the Roma and Sinti are still very good in our memory. All these promises have not been fulfilled to this day. This is a failure of the government. It would be necessary, in the Committee, to discuss once and for all the shortcomings of the Government in connection with this whole problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7972	Mr Smolle has also been mentioned on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e7994	Spoštovani gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Dragi prijatelji! High house! Mr President. [[Abg. Kiss: Bravo, Charles!]] In principle, I would like to say that we support this proposal for a deadline, especially because it initiates the discussion. In this sense, I also understand the request made yesterday by Mr Smolle and Mr Wabl on the subject of basic state law, Article 19: new definition, a comprehensive description of the rights of the ethnic groups in the constitutional rank. In my opinion, Mr Stoisits' request has only one shortfall: It is kept relatively general. As well as confirming our well-known lawyers, it is always a problem, when a relatively declared work is put in place, to what extent this declaration can, so to speak, be led to the reality of the day. This is the only point I would like to give to Mr Graf: It can't stay with ideas. But this also applies especially to the Freedom Party. It's not enough to write anything into a party program that nobody reads – not even you yourself. In reality, the groups need the support of the parties represented here in Parliament. Mr Posch said that the Federal Government had ideas. – We have ideas enough. Appropriate actions are important; with those we could live with, these would please us. I have so many ideas myself that they could probably not be realized in several legislative periods. But: Ideas alone are not enough! We are ready to participate in a re-design of the People's Group law. Just yesterday's request is such a first, broader attempt. I am pleased that, in the meantime, Mr Kostelka has also been getting a bit in his files and that he has received the request he has mounted on the press two months ago, and - probably because he is a clubman - he has not come to read it. Mr Posch is particularly responsible for putting the relevant paper on the table in good time. He calls himself a member of the ethnic groups! So please also in this case: Putting actions and not just promising all kinds of things! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope – and I also invite the Liberal Party – that we come to a very strong and good request – if you want to, a five-party proposal. The first step is to: As the groups imagine this, two applications have been presented here. Of course, it is necessary to understand the situation in which groups of people are currently present. If Mrs Stoisits draws on the memorandum, we must say: This memorandum has been reduced to a minimum, so to speak, under the extreme pressure of the government parties, so that I always have problems with using the word "memorandum" for it. The problem is that the people's representatives were afraid that the government parties might otherwise be angry, in many places – also literally – they have written: We don't want that!, we don't need that! We don't want that at all! This is, of course, a relatively incomprehensible approach. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, perhaps this anomaly also shows how a people's group representative has to wind and turn, so to speak, what kind of fins and tricks he has to use in order to be heard and to get through with his concern. The memorandum is now before the government for a year. But these minimum requirements will not be met! Therefore, I ask to accept my strong invitation, my personal but also my political invitation: Let us make reasonable, good, extensive People's Constitutional Law and provide it with sufficiently detailed provisions in the form of an Implementing Act! This implementing law, too, is already in place like the Basic Law. I am going to make these requests again. Mr. Schieder! They regret that the proposal has not yet been put into the House and that there is no request for ratification of the Charter of Regional and Minority Speakers. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! But there is no right of initiative to ratify! That doesn't exist!]] Well, you mean that doesn't exist. However, I assume that we will make such a request. This will be a small detour, if you like, but a permitted one. I will make the whole Charter a request, and we will then see whether it remains with the ideas or whether it is indeed taken and signed. It will show whether it will be called in Parliament: Yes, these are good things! I have to tell you something contrary to Mr. Federal Chancellor's climate – someone wrote it down to him, so I forgive him, he can't know everything himself –: He wrote in an answer to a question from the Liberal Forum, for example, there are no 35 measures to be taken in the case of the Roma. However, we have not found any ethnic groups for which only 35 measures would be sufficient. The measures we propose go into 70, 90 or more.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8043	Please put the final sentence to a close!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8059	Thus, this matter is also present in the appropriate form. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! The Greens and the Liberals are already part of the game. If we make nails with heads, we make an effective popular right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8089	Next word: Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think each one of you acknowledges the value of language and the value of culture. [[Abg. Kiss: There's something we'll hear about the citizenship law!]] Everyone would certainly make this confession, too. That is why I do not understand why you are not prepared to make a corresponding commitment in a constitutional capacity: a very simple commitment to the diversity of language and culture in Austria. It doesn't cost anything, it almost goes with a sentence and with a dash. There is also no time pressure and the like, but this is practically from today on to tomorrow. For each of you is certainly behind this value and would probably represent it personally in all discussions. So why Refuse You are the anchoring of this value, the anchoring of this basic setting and this fundamental commitment in the federal constitution? Why do it? You don't if it doesn't cost if it's possible and if it matches your personal value horizon? Nevertheless, you refuse. This is completely incomprehensible to me, at a day and at a time when Austria is in the spotlight of the European Communities in Austria, on a day when the President of the Federal Republic of Germany pointed out the many dimensions of Austrian history when he was fishing. Please take your own President seriously! Take the words of Dr. Klestil seriously and confess to diversity here – also in the Constitution! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has pointed out that, in many respects, Austria, in the context of the EU Presidency, in particular, has the task of doing something for Europe now due to its diverse history and history of many cultural and linguistic dimensions. – A contribution, a performance for Europe would be this simple, objective commitment in the federal constitution! There is also no means of avoiding, and there is no claim that the time limit would be too short. ==References== September was therefore set as an appointment because the next plenary session was held on 17 September. ==References== The preparations have to be made until the 16th, so that we can make it to the 17th. September – so to speak at the end of the first third of our EU Presidency – can send this clear signal. It is about a sign to send a signal to a commitment to values in constitutional rank! It is in itself a tradition of Austrian history, which is to be incorporated into the Constitution. Mr Wurmitzer! You have pointed out that we may have an disturbed relationship with the Republic. I say: You have an disturbed relationship with the history of Austria if you do not want to see this commitment to diversity and if you refuse this commitment to diversity in the linguistic and cultural sphere. A further step is needed at the legal level, namely the ratification of the Charter of the Council of Europe on the protection of regional and minority languages. There too we are still juicy. This Charter must finally be ratified in Austria in order to maintain its legal status here and now. It is therefore two dimensions: on the one hand, the constitutional dimension – the confession – and on the other hand, the following at the legal level. We also need the ratification of this European Charter to protect regional and minority languages. I have heard that this Charter was signed on the spot by the Austrian ambassador immediately after its adoption in the Council of Europe – immediately! So we have come to know this immediately under European pressure or under European observation. Here and now, however, ratification is still outstanding. That is why I would like to conjure up once again the spirit that a previous speaker from your ranks – I think it was colleague Posch – has already quoted, a spirit that he can very well join, a spirit that he carries. But why does he and why does the Socialist Group not take the small step towards the embodiment of this spirit within the framework of the Constitution in the form of this one sentence in the federal constitution? That's why I'm appealing to you again: Take this step! Sign this proposal! Take the deadline seriously and make a confession as the Federal President made this morning at 11 a.m.!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8151	The possibilities for speaking provided for in the Rules of Procedure are exhausted. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the vote on the just-negotiated request. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. We come to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 420/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 16. ==References== In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8190	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 6 to 9 of the agenda. Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8221	Mr President. High house! The Federal Minister is not in the house yet. After the debate on the groups of peoples, let us return to the problems of the Committee on Transport. Among other things – in addition to the theme of the ban on mobile phones in cars – there has also been a decision on the amendment of the aviation law. This amendment will, on the one hand, bring with it the legal security of civil aviation operations at military airports and, on the other, create the conditions for further opening military airports to civil aviation. It was an ancient concern of the Styrian state government – then still under the head of state Krainer – that the airport tentweg should be added to civil use in addition to military use. Unfortunately, this request and decision of the Styrian Government, which were made by all the parties at that time, was put on hold in the following years. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Federal Minister has made it clear in the Committee that, under the law which is to be adopted today, a signal is being issued for tentway, so that this military airport can also be used for civilian purposes. I am really pleased that the Federal Minister implements the intentions of the Freemans, for the Freedom Party has already made several applications in the Styrian Landtag, which calls for a solution to the old demand of the Styrian state government. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I am very glad that the Federal Minister - I welcome you now - has indicated in the Committee that he will continue this project. [[in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Einm]] The civil use of the Tentweg military airport would on the one hand be a signal for the already dying industrial site Aichfeld-Murboden, because it would lead to a recovery by business travel and charter traffic and create a new infrastructure there. On the other hand, there would be a better management of major events on the A1 ring. Civil use should also be a signal to general aviation, namely that in Austria not only airports are locked up and closed – as was the case in Trausdorf in Burgenland – but that existing potential is used and exploited. But, of course, it must also be ensured that the operation of the civil airport is consistent with the needs of the region and with the loadability of the population. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. We will not accept the request of the coalition parties to amend the KFG. My previous speakers have already mentioned some reasons for this. I would like to mention the position of the ÖVP here again. The ÖVP with its transport spokesperson Kukacka has once again been pulled over the table. Just as it happened in connection with the 0.8 and 0.5-promille limit, this is the case now with the so-called mobile phone ban in cars. Mr Kukacka said 14 days ago from the speaker's desk: We'll leave ourselves until autumn. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No!]] I can pick out the appropriate protocol. You obviously don't know your own speeches! We'll make a proper law, we won't break anything over our knees – those were your words. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I said we're making an assessment!]] 14 days later, you fell down. The only thing you've achieved is a three-month suspension of 1. ==References== July of next year. That's all you've achieved. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have no idea!]] You have fallen by, just as you did when you agreed to reduce the limit from 0.8 to 0.5 permille at the time. When you look at this, it turns out that in the past the ÖVP has fallen over and over again – whether by the ban on mobile phones, by the 0.8 promill or by the traffic psychological tests that have been introduced – because it has followed the intentions of the Transport Safety Board. In addition, it is necessary to know that the three largest insurance companies are based in the Transport Safety Board, which, of course, want to escape from all risks from the insurance policy perspective as far as drivers are concerned. They are exactly on the line of the Transport Safety Board, which says: It may only be made by telephone if a telephone is available. I have already said in committee that people should be weighed in safety in this way: You'll call the freephone system, and if an accident happens, the insurance will be very good. For in the STVO it is said that no distraction of the driver may take place during the operation of a car. As far as insurance is concerned, it will be very easy to prove that this accident or this accident has happened despite a non-voting facility. That's exactly what the ÖVP practises continuously: First you promise something, then the coalition partner says something else; it goes on for a week or two, and you're back!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8309	Mr Platter is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8331	Mr President. Minister! High house! I did not really want to deal with the ban on mobile phones, but the statements by Mr Lammer and Mr Madl have led me to take a very brief position on this. Mr Lammer, ladies and gentlemen! I would have thought that you as a specialist – and as such I would like to call you – are also professionally dealing with this topic. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Really not!]] But you only used your speaking time, Mr. Mag. To criticize Kukacka. I can't deal with the content of the matter, because you can't say anything against the content in an inconsistency speech. For Mr Lammer has given nothing but a confuse of populist flakes of his own, and I think these flakes can be found in the FPÖ Dictionary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Is this a very serious speech now?]] Mrs Madl! I had to laugh at your contribution to the debate. You've been talking about crashers. Ask the population who was at the 0.5-promille rule of the crashers: Clearly the FPÖ has fallen by the 0.5-promille rule! That's what it is and will always be like, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Madl: No matter how the SPÖ does on the Internet! That's it!]] In order to have a cooling phase, I would like to refer to the right to transport goods. Because we also need to talk about other topics, not just the ban on mobile phones. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I think I can continue to speak. [[Continued calls and calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Madl: Yes, keep talking!]] The Government's proposal to amend the Risk Goods Promotion Act is mainly about controlling the transport of dangerous goods in accordance with EU law and in an efficient manner. Furthermore, this law defines how the performance of the transport of dangerous goods is carried out and, above all, who will carry out these control measures. Monitoring compliance with these rules can only be carried out by well-trained and well-trained bodies. Minister! I am very glad that the competences between the Federal Army and the customs guard can be clearly regulated. On the one hand, the Federal Army has the opportunity to monitor compliance with the rules and to take appropriate measures, and on the other hand, the participation of the customs authorities is clearly regulated. The customs authorities will carry out their activities in customs offices under this Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8427	Excuse me, Mr Deputies. I would ask you to restrict the discussion, especially if they challenge salmon.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8454	It seems to me that some of the ladies and gentlemen have not noticed that we have long been away from the ban on mobile phones and have reached the Code on the carriage of dangerous goods. I would like to say that the mobile monitoring groups now also have the possibility of ordering the interruption of transport under this law and then immediately bringing the Gendarmerie. This will enable the customs guard to take on new tasks in the field of dangerous goods transport law, and in addition the functions of the Gendarmerie will be preserved. Minister! You know from your former work as Minister of the Interior that there has always been conflicts between the Federal Army and the customs guard because the competences were not clearly regulated. Today's decision-making is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction, especially since the consensus between Gendarmerie and customs guards has been found here. Another step to be taken by the Ministry of the Interior concerns the amendment of the Customs Enforcement Act. The purpose of this programme is to provide the customs guard with shattering measures in the area of criminal police, and the Gendarmerie is to be able to carry out plums openings in the criminal police field in return. Minister! I am pleased that this agreement has been reached, and I believe that this will also mean a greater degree of security for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8499	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8520	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a brief remark on the transport of dangerous goods. As my previous speakers have already said, we will agree to this matter. We do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, with the Committee on Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because it is hard to say that. The Transport Committee assumes that before a regulation is adopted in accordance with § 11 para. 2 and § 14 para. 1 Risk Promotion Act is agreed at the social partners level. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is – and I do not say this for the first time – that there is something in a committee statement about an institution that is not even mentioned in the federal constitution. That is where my sense of law ceases, and that is why there is a very clear rejection of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We should never write anything in there!]] The second point I would like to mention here concerns the renewal of the telecommunications law, which is a proposal from the Greens. We agree with this from the basic point of view, because we believe it is a measure to initiate a new mode in the future to try to put this mast forest under a regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is necessary. In this context, I refer to the unanimously adopted proposal in the Salzburg Landtag, which we simply have to bear in mind. We can't pretend that's nothing like this in the high house. However, I believe that the Greens' request is inadequate in one point, even if the Greens believe that there must be an unlimited party position. I think ladies and gentlemen, then the mill would stand, then nothing went on, that would be too hindering us. Rather, such an initiative as a result of the motion for a resolution would have to contain the conditions under which a party would be granted a position. That is why I would also like to consider how to formulate such a request. Thirdly and last point, ladies and gentlemen: I would like to take the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the previous activity of the Telekom regulator, the Telekom regulatory authority, is not desirable. We have four licensing contracts on the GSM sector and four different procurement procedures. This increases legal uncertainty and, in my opinion, I believe - I have said this to the Minister - promotes a flood of complaints because each GSM operator is treated differently. This leads to different costs, which must ultimately be borne by the consumer. And it may not be possible that on the one hand very high license fees will be lifted – the main thing, the cash is for the Minister of Finance, for the Republic of Austria – and on the other hand, because there are problems with the allocation of the frequency ranges and with that the phenomenon of Sendermastenwald also occurs. I believe that one must intervene in a regulatory manner and make it the condition that various providers use transmission systems together. This should basically have been contained in the tendering conditions. In retrospect, I admit, it is difficult to regulate, but a new start must be made. Therefore, I would ask all political groups to be very creative in this regard and to take action to get out of this confusion so that we can meet consumers and network operators accordingly. For people want to call and not to fight.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8564	Mr Parnigoni is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer immediately to the comments made by my predecessor and refer to the positions of the Liberals and the Liberals in relation to the Green Paper. In general, I believe that in the last Telecommunication Act, we have created a very reasonable regulation and that the existing mobile frequencies can now be released in a sensible way, not only to fill the federal cash register, but also to achieve security for random frequency users. Secondly, I note that there are not 14 000 transmission masts. I have had this number checked, Mr Meischberger, it seems to have been completely out of the air. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: What number?]] – I am speaking of the 14 000 transmission masts you have attracted here. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: 10,000!]] You said 10 000 and another 4,000, so I say... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] I am sorry, I have had it checked, and therefore I can say that your statement was not correct. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Wrong!]] In spite of all this, however, I agree with the content of the Greens' request that we should take seriously the fears of the people regarding the effects of this transmission system problem. That is why I am very happy that the Ministry is preparing a relevant innovation aimed at the use of any operators – four will ultimately be – more or less to a so-called site sharing, which means that the infrastructure, the masts, should be used for a corresponding fee for transmission facilities. I think we should develop and go this way together. High house! Mr Lafer said that we had submitted opinions in the context of the amendment of the KFG-Novelle. - You'll be sure he's not in the hall right now. [[Abg. Blünegger: He's here!]] That's from the old clothes collection. The situation was as follows: We wanted to have another date for a meeting of the Transport Committee in order to be able to initiate such a brief assessment as Kukacka has proposed. The date was rejected by the Liberal Group, so the coalition parties decided to make a political, a coalition-based assessment process. That is why we agree with the opinion, which is why we have drawn from this knowledge, and we are therefore convinced that we have proposed a good regulation. I can tell you one more thing, Mr Lammer: I am convinced that, of course, we need to adapt the legislation on road safety, which has happened in the past. We wouldn't be the 20 today. StVO-Novelle will decide if there are no permanent technical innovations. I must come to the end of my remarks, although I would like to address Mr Barmüller. I believe that all steps taken to increase road safety are correct, and the result confirms this. In the first half of 1998, the number of fatalities fell from 530 to 407, i.e. by 23 percent, i.e. 123 deaths. The number of deaths in accidents due to alcoholization has also fallen by 46.7 percent, which means 19 deaths less in a half-year. That is to say, because of many sensible transport safety measures, we have been able to save about 250 people a year. This is the goal and path of our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8669	Mr Marolt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8690	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to take a brief look at this cell phone causa. Mr Kukacka said that there would be some positive opinion. That's not the way it is. For example, I have an opinion from the ÖAMTC on the draft of the 21st. KFG-Novelle, from which I can quote a lot. For example: From the outset, ÖAMTC has been critical of these simplifications and has pointed out that the issue is much more complex and that the problem cannot be solved by a law of use. Allegations that the car clubs would agree to this scheme therefore lack any basis. Or: Neither the driving licence law nor the 0.5-promille novelle were sufficiently discussed in detail, numerous ambiguities and misunderstandings make the law application difficult for drivers and authorities. At that time, as today, the warnings of the ÖAMTC were struck in the wind before an overcrowded decision-making process. But what is also essential: If you follow the media response to the required ban on mobile phones over the last few months, especially the wide-ranging promotions, you will not get the impression that the legislative decision made on the tongue will be based on the aim of providing additional sales to the electronics and accessories industry in the last minute before the summer break – please, let yourself be broken down. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Read it!]] That's all about this husk-fush law you want to decide with it. But I have something more important here, namely a motion for a resolution which I can make despite the short speaking time. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to adopt this motion for a resolution positively. – I’ll end my remarks with that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8764	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Edler has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8788	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we're essentially holding a cell phone discussion today. Another important law to be adopted today, which has also been referred to, is the Risk Promotion Act. I would like to make one more point, because it is very important for safety – that has already been stressed. ==References====External links== ==References== There are six EU directives that are implemented in this way. In addition to the implementation of the EU Directives, this law aims to improve the legal basis for the transport of dangerous goods and therefore, in principle, affects all major modes of transport: Road transport, rail transport, inland waterway transport, maritime and air transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Of the content to be mentioned here, national and international provisions on the transport of dangerous goods are important. Mr Platter has also referred to the increased controls and mentioned that customs control is now also authorized. That seems to me essential. The vocational problems are still to be solved when they have occurred or occur. However, I believe that the Member States of both the Executive and the Customs Service want to fulfil these services in the interests of security. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger referred here and, above all, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the forthcoming regulation and criticised the fact that we have taken the position from the government parties, which is an unwritten law in Austria, that such regulations are also to be agreed with social partners. Mr Firlinger! The social partners have always made good decisions for all sectors, for the economy, for workers and thus for the Republic, so we will also involve them in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a law that will bring much more safety to all modes of transport in terms of dangerous goods. I would like to mention: A special observation will be given to the risk assessor, so that he does not fall short of his responsibility in connection with the head of the company. This will mainly concern the liability that will largely lie with the entrepreneur. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8834	Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8856	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Aviation Act essentially provides for the responsibilities of the Minister for Science and Transport for the handling of civil aviation at military airports. This has provided a legal basis for the theoretical possibility, if appropriate, of handling civil aviation at all military airports. From this point of view, I would like to raise the demand that the military airport in the Obersteiermark, in the tent road, also be opened for civilian purposes. This is a demand that the Social Democrats have been raising for more than 25 years at regional conferences, in regional programmes in the Aichfeld, but also at national level. If Mrs Madl is now speaking about the reality of a FPÖ initiative, I must say that this is at best a kickboard offensive – as positive as that intention is. [[Abg. Madl: Aha!]] I hope, Mrs Madl, that you will at all know what you are talking about. I can tell you: I have completed my presence there, I was born in the Obersteiermark region, I live there and I also represent the population there. It is essentially about strengthening the industrial location, which is one of the most important in all of Austria – the Obersteiermark has a higher value added than the whole of the federal states. It is precisely the fact that many industrial companies are present on all continents and that their high-tech products often want to have transported in a particular place in the world within a few days. In this respect, it is important that it is possible, in the immediate vicinity, to deal with civil aviation. - Point one. Point two: Of course, there are customers and interested parties from all over the world for our products from Obersteiermark. For them, it is only possible to arrive through Vienna or at best Graz. However, it is very important that they can quickly come to their negotiating partners in these companies with an enormous export rate. Finally, I would like to say: There is agreement on this requirement in the Upper Styria on the part of the parties. The initiative was initiated by the Social Democrats – recently at a conference of the Social Democratic mayors in Upper Styria. I think it is important to ask the Minister of Defence to finally agree to an opening and also to make the necessary investments so that first of all the industrial site is strengthened. Secondly, this is an important point in the fight against emigration in the Upper Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8891	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8913	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the real issue, I would like to thank you very much, Mr One, for the fact that next week, with the "self-determination" movement from Upper Austria, there will be an appointment on the sad issue of the transport directives. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Müller]] I hope that it will come to a solution that will allow the transport of people in public transport and will remove a barrier to people with disabilities by means of a corresponding amendment to the law. I am confident and thank you once again for this date on behalf of the Self-Determined Life Movement. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But now to the agenda items. Minister! I think it is important and right that there should at last be mobile communication facilities in cars. The use of handcuffs without a means of communication is very dangerous, as at the same time it is telephoned and driven by car. There are now a lot of offers of accommodating facilities in the price range from 500 S to 5 000 S. At the moment, however, the drivers do not know whether a free speech facility is equal to a speech facility. A 500 S model must not necessarily serve road safety. Nor must it be that only one model costing 2,000 p.e. 3,000 p. is the right one. Minister! It is very important to issue directives on the way in which they are directed, how they must be equipped and, above all, where they must be specifically fixed in the passenger car. At the moment, it is that each one somehow resolves according to his mind – in the hope that when this law enters into force, it will already be in order, as he has assembled the accompaniment in his car. But no one really knows what it should be like. In order not to assure consumers and traders of the model or models which are actually those that can be installed in cars, there must be guidelines. You should know this very soon to give them time to install the model with the right conditions for each passenger car. In this half year there should be the possibility that every consumer who has a mobile phone and a car can equip himself accordingly. You are still guilty of this regulation. But I assume that you will soon become active in this direction and present a text to better inform customers. - That's one. Minister! The second: For months – not only in Austria, but especially in Steyr – it has always been about the problem of setting up the transmission systems for mobile phones. In Steyr it is concrete that send masts are built in the middle of settlement areas. The workers are opposed to it, with good rights, because they are afraid that the radiation of these plants could have a negative impact on their health. There is not a single specific study that could make it credible that there is no risk of health in the long term. Because those studies, which are currently on the market, are largely financed or organized by the operators of these stations, but there is no independent study. We need this in Austria very urgently in order to be able to reduce the fears of the citizens in this direction. Minister! It would, I believe, also be in the interests of licensees if the funding of the study were to be divided – 50 percent of the federal license receipts and 50 percent of mobile license holders – in order to produce a comprehensive study for Austria and eliminate the fears of the population. Minister! It is not the right way and does not bring peace in relation to the transmission facilities if you simply pass the station on to the communities. It is therefore possible, without citizen participation, to set up installations where one has just believed that these are necessary. In this respect, there must certainly be something to be done in the next few years in the interests of citizens and in the interest of information. Above all, one must happen: There should no longer be any transmitters in residential areas until it is ensured that there is no health risk. I believe that this will certainly be very difficult, because there are no long-term experiences yet. That is why it would be useful and necessary for the federal government to offer an insurance in its own law, which requires that citizens be compensated for any health damage caused by these installations. Citizens must not get sick by these radiations, but if they get sick, they must not face the problem of not having a claim for compensation. In the interests of the citizens, this possibility should be created for all those involved, and this can only be in the interest of the federal government and, on the other hand, the operator of these facilities. I am pleased that you will solve this very soon, take the concerns of the citizens seriously, and thus reduce the fears of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e8981	No one is reported in the word. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We therefore come to the votes. – I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law, which amends the Motor Driving Act 1967, together with the title and receipt in 1334 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the motor vehicle law do so. – The proposal was adopted at second reading by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. . I note that this proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Aviation Act, together with the title and receipt in 1335 of the Supplements. I should also like to ask, in the case of approval, to give a sign of this matter by lifting the seats. . I note that the second reading of the proposal was decided by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the case of third-reading consent, I would ask that this be done in the same way. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority. Now I have to vote on the draft federal law, which lays down the Risk Promotion Act and amends the Road Traffic Act 1967 and the Road Transport Regulations, and in 1275 the Supplements, taking into account the amendments annexed to the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of giving a sign of approval. I note that this was unanimously decided at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of approval, I would also ask for a sign on this subject at third reading. This law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1337. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. This request was adopted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Meischberger and colleagues on measures against the mobile radio station forest. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion for a resolution, Meschberger, to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We have done this part of the agenda. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1283 of the Supplements): Citizenship Novelties 1998 and on application 301/A by Mr Wolfgang Großruckund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Citizenship Act (1320 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1089 of the Supplements): European Convention on Nationality and reservations and declarations of the Republic of Austria (1319 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on motion 310/A by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on a Federal Law amending the Citizenship Act (1316 of Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning a federal law with which the citizenship law 1985, BGBl. No. 311, amended (1317 of the Supplements 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades on a renewal of the Citizenship Act (No. of Citizenship 1998) (1318 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9162	We now come to points 10 to 14 of the agenda. The debate is under one. The rapporteur, Mr Dietachmayr, wishes to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall report in addition to the written report on item 11 of the agenda: European Convention on Nationality, including reservations and declarations by the Republic of Austria in 1089 of the Supplements. At its meeting on 30 October the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. This reservation of performance, which I would like to express on this occasion, is taken into account by the reservations entered into during the signing of the contract and by the decision-making of the new legislation on citizenship negotiated in 1998 in 1320 of the Supplements.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9202	I would like to thank the rapporteur. We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Wolfgang Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9231	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the new citizenship law, which is under debate, the Freedom Party has a fundamental difference of opinion primarily with the part of the government coalition on this issue, namely to the Social Democrats. I would like to illustrate this in three examples. First of all, the month of June has shown the highest unemployment rate in the Republic of Austria since the 1950s compared to the last few years. In this context, I should like to point out that the head of the AMS itself has declared that a migrant with a job means less for Austrians. Second point: crime. It is perceived by the population as unbearable, and we all know from the criminal statistics that there are already entire areas of crime which certain groups of strangers can be assigned and controlled by them. One reads: Serbian, Ukrainian killers, remembering lately, Nigerian drug dealers and more. However, one also sometimes reads shortened surnames, but by the first name it is clear from which area people come from. Then it is said that this is already Austrian citizens. That's right. Although this will relieve foreigners' statistics, there is no crime less for us Austrians. Finally, by granting de facto home rights to approximately 80 000 Bosnians – a measure of our Interior Minister – we have received a population increase of about 1 percent of the state population. As measured by comparison figures, you can see: The United States has absorbed 21,000 people throughout World War II. We recorded 80 000 Bosniers with a blow. We will provide them with all the means to return. We build retirement homes for Bosnians, and the Bosnians refuse to go back to this age home. This is an absurd situation we have! This is always justified by the fact that they are not accepted at home. In particular, the younger ones among these Bosnians are accused of being pushed out of their home country during the dangerous period and of being transferred to the West, where they were better off. Now they could come back with Western help, but they are not accepted at home because they were not there in the time dangerous to their homeland when Bosnia as a state was created by the abduction and sacrifice of those who remained there. From the Bosnian point of view, this is a, I believe, quite understandable action. However, the reverse would mean that those who do not accept the Bosnians remain with us. In the Yugoslavian war, Austria has demonstrated its willingness to help more than enough, and we all know that alienation is a burning problem in certain areas of Austria, especially in Vienna. If you get out of the 1. District outside and in my constituency, in the 14th century. or 15. You will notice that more than 30 percent of the population do not have more German than their native language. Whoever wants to correct me and says that these are already native Austrians, he is formally right. From the feeling of the people in the district, however, all those who did not integrate will not feel as Austrians, and this creates problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] The Tschador remains a foreign garment in Austria, Mrs. Collabor, and the smell of the already spoken hammischbrate is felt on holiday as exotic, but in the local corridor by no means desired. I can tell you that! And the reputation of the Muezzin is not to replace church bells in Austria, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr Gredler.]] The Austrians, even if you sometimes claim it, are not xenophobic. They have received hundreds of thousands of refugees in 1956 and 1968 – but refugees from our own culture – and then integrated them; but not completely culturally strangers who do not even want to integrate, in part, cannot. You know this, ladies and gentlemen in the government, and you feel under compulsion. That is why the Minister of the Interior is once again deeply involved in the trick box and says actionism because he notices the pressure of freedom. One makes the ÖVP a few concessions, and it falls down with the on and on itself useful and good big-duty application and essentially does what the Socialists want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Always! As always!]] Above all, it is concerned about the central question whether Austria is an immigration country or not. That is the most important question! Now I come to our request. We assume, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria is not an immigration country, neither of its size nor of its economic situation. This would lead to a profound cultural change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] If you repeatedly compare the Greens and the Liberals with the United States, ius solo and so on, I must face up to the situation of immigration in the United States, which was quite different. There an uninhabited country was populated or, in fact, indigenous people were forced out and murdered there. But that is exactly the situation, ladies and gentlemen, which we do not want! You do not need to give us the United States and Canada as a model example of our situation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, not being a country of immigration does not mean that we do not want to be a stranger at all. However, the award of citizenship must be in the interest of the Republic of Austria, which is important to us. It must therefore also be possible for each of the immigrants to stand up for their own maintenance. We want an orderly family union. What we don't want is what we don't want to be criminals – no matter how long their prep record is. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, want to become their lawyer and criticise the sharpness of our draft, then please calmly explain to the Austrians that you also want to be a citizen. We, ladies and gentlemen, understand ourselves as representatives of the Austrians and not as lawyers of the criminals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not want to import any foreign policy or religious problems either. Remember the Kurdish unrest in Germany: 40,000 people on the street, burning cars! Remember bomb attacks in Berlin! This has consequences up to us. It is not our job as an Austrian politician to import foreign problems into the country. But this happens especially when one advocates dual citizenship, because the person concerned inevitably comes into a loyalty conflict between his own home for which he feels and the state in which he is located. Such problems are enough. Look, the half Balkan war is financed by illegal "taxes" that are lifted in Germany, Austria and Holland. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you know what you're saying?]] There is clear evidence here that there are different loyaltys. This scene promotes a subculture in which politics and crime often cross. We don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, however, the question of integration and the willfulness of applicants is particularly important for us. The basic requirement for this is a sufficient and not just superficial knowledge of the German language. We are not willing to include an alibipassus in the proposal for a government, we demand that the applicant be able to find himself, recognize and express himself in a normal everyday situation. It must have a minimum knowledge of our legal structure in order to be able to perceive its future rights as a citizen. I can now return to you the Americans you would like to quote to us. Look at what tests they require for the preservation of their citizenship! That's huge. If this is not the case, the stranger can never really be part of our culture. He will always remain the stranger; perhaps not only in the first generation, but also in the second generation. What that means is that if you go to Marseille, Paris, Strasbourg or Brussels to the suburbs today. There are African districts, there are Arab districts in the second generation, in the third generation, with all the problems of poverty and crime. – That’s not what we want for our home country. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, had no colonies. Nevertheless, more Turkish and Serbian than German are spoken in some districts of Vienna. The state of the houses in these areas is often pitiful. The fact that Austrians who make profits are also guilty of it is quite right, but that is not the center of the problem. The Academy of Sciences has prepared a study that, in the case of the East opening, hundreds of thousands of people would flock to Austria. This cannot happen to our country without profound change and without cultural breakdown. We liberals will fight against it and see us in alliance with the majority of Austrians who want to leave their children a beautiful and a life-worthy Austria, a home. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's terrible!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's terrible!]] Mr Schieder, I will return to the starting point of my speech, to the question of unemployment, and there it is really terrible. They say that's all terrible and black painting. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No! Your attitude is terrible!]] You promised us 50 000 jobs to join the EU. Today we no longer have 50 000 jobs, today we have the highest unemployment rate in Austria. This is the credibility that this coalition government always wants to prove, but cannot. You can't because you failed in this area. They will also fail in the area of citizenship, and the problems will come to us. They accuse us of black painting and promise the solution to the question of citizenship. The Austrians now know what they have to do with your promises.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9391	The next speaker was Mr Leikam.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9413	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Unfortunately, I do not have so much time to discuss more intensively the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Jung, but, Mr Jung, what you have done here in your debate has probably been taken out of the deepest and lower drawer. [[Abg. Aumayr: My God, the old Leader!]] [[Abg. Young: This is the reality in Austria!]] Such a thing can really only come from a representative of a party who is drawn from the fact that deep-seated xenophobia is one of their most intense efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: We will not be blamed by you!]] This speech was marked by deep xenophobia, deep xenophobia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the liberals: This is an injunction!]] [[Abg. Young: You don't want to see the problems!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] Member of Parliament, young man! Since you mentioned the job situation here, I can tell you the following: The 80 000 Bosnians you mentioned in Austria, former refugees of war, are integrated into the labour market. And not so few of these 80,000 work in companies of Members who are in your ranks, and who have employed these Bosnians, these refugees of war, for cheap money. Take note of this! If you just need people to take advantage of it, at least you have the courage and the character to admit it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Young: How many Austrians don't have a job? Who do you represent here: the Austrians or the Bosnians?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's a huge understatement!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The principle of Austrian foreign rights, namely to put integration before new immigration, has proved its worth. This principle is also included in the novel on the Citizenship Law 1998. As in recent years, the aim of this innovation is to ensure that, as the last step of successful integration, the award of Austrian citizenship can take place. In the last few months, during which discussions have repeatedly been held between the parties in the relevant Committee on the Interior, but through the media also in the public, there have been different discussions, different discussions in the direction that, as we have just heard, one party goes far too far, but the other goes far too far, that it is too restrictive for one and one for the other too generous a novelle. So one might think that the government parties would have met in the middle of it, and that might be the right way. But I think you really shouldn't do that easily. We clearly believe that the award of citizenship is something special, and that everyone who acquires this citizenship has special obligations, but also rights, both of which are in the balance. Taking into account all these points – integration before new entry, obligations and rights of a citizen – a good, a viable, a clear and transparent novel to the Citizenship Act has emerged, as I would point out. We have achieved through this novel that there will be uniform deadlines for the first time in all Austrian federal states, that the unfair treatment, as it has been, has taken ten or twelve years, in particular in the western Länder, until citizenship has been granted to the countries, but it has been done so in the Federal Capital that candidates have already been granted citizenship after five or six years. In this novel, it is now clear that all the federal states must comply with these deadlines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mrs Stoisits in the Committee has said that she feels that there are nine different laws of citizenship in Austria, precisely because of the different practices of the individual states, then she should actually give our novel, because our proposal does not give rise to this impression, because there will be uniform deadlines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, we have maintained the deadlines. We have not become more restrictive, we have become quite more open in some areas – for the first time also valued in the novelle. We count in this novel very concretely, when the respective countries can already grant citizenship after six years and in some cases after four years. We think this is very important and very good, because it is precisely these early awards of citizenship that are all about people who are present in our country because of various difficult conditions. Citizenship is and must not be particularly easily available – this must be clear to all of us – but I believe that in principle the acquisition of citizenship should not be made so difficult that very few people can get it. The accusation that in recent years we have given so few citizenships that, as Mr Stoisits said in the Committee, anyone who would have been granted citizenship cannot be maintained. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's it!]] After all, in the last ten years, from 1988 to 1998, there have been twice as many awards of citizenship as before, i.e. an increase of 100 percent; or in figures: from 8 200 to more than 16 000. However, we have also included in this novel – to this end, the Social Democratic parliamentary group – a number of difficult conditions for the award of citizenship. We acknowledge that future applicants for Austrian citizenship must have German language skills. We think that this is quite legitimate and also an advantage for the individual applicant if he can deal with the language of the country in which he wants to acquire citizenship, if he can understand, because it also makes integration easier for him. If he cannot control the language or express himself at all, which has also been the case very often in recent years, he will also have a very difficult time integrating himself accordingly in this country. That is why we recognize this point, which I do not regard as so much a difficulty, but rather as an advantage for the individual applicant. I also recognise that we have reduced from six months to three months the criminal framework, which is an exclusive reason for citizenship. I also recognize this because I believe that someone who wants Austrian citizenship should also accept the social order of our country. And if there has been a corresponding imprisonment against someone, it is no longer justified, I believe, to grant him citizenship. I am quite surprised, Mrs Stoisits, that, in the request of the Greens, whom I have read through, we are talking about a three-year imprisonment. Although I am not a Member of Parliament who is particularly well-known in the legal field, a three-year term of imprisonment is already a very high term of freedom. It is already about very, very heavy chunks, and I do not think it can be understood that then, as a recognition of the three-year imprisonment, citizenship is still granted. I am also not unhappy about the fact that in the future there will no longer be any possible phenomena, because there is a regulation in this novel that this will no longer be possible. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I believe that, after not easy negotiations, the coalition parties – the positions were quite different at the beginning and were far different – have succeeded in creating a good, a useful, a transparent new citizenship law, with which we can live quite well and that, as I can see once again, should also be an advantage for those who will receive Austrian citizenship in the future and whom we want to welcome as new citizens in our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9571	Mr Krüger, rapporteur, spoke to the House for an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9595	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Leikam has made the claim that there are free Members to employ Bosnian refugees on a discount basis. I reject this claim as false. If actually Bosnian refugees have been employed, then, of course, within the framework of collective contractual remuneration. I also reject Mr Leikam's statement or claim that Members of the Liberal Party are developing xenophobia. If anyone here hates, then from your speech this hatred has come out to us representatives of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9628	Mr Dr Kier came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the question as to which word refers is certainly interpretable, but one thing is clear to me: A very, very massive rejection of every kind gesture towards people who are not local blood has already been clearly recognizable from Mr Jung's remarks. And that, for example, as a specialist in the field of crime, he does not even distinguish between tourist crime and the criminality of people living here and therefore presents allegations which are not yet quite wrong due to the shortening, but are in fact completely incorrect, what is happening to the problem of citizenship and integration, that is painful, that is very unpleasant. This appears to be a genuine oneness of the government template. If the government template is unanimous on this point, then the Federal Minister for Justice has raised the point in his opinion on the delimitation of criminal offences in connection with citizenship by stating that, if not even a distinction is made between conditional and mandatory convictions, and if the limit for the extent of the permitted condemnation is reduced from six to three months, this is – I quote literally – "an objectively non-necessary intensification of the obstacles to award". – And this is said by the well-known "radial" and "extremist" Federal Minister for Justice. I mean, this position of the Federal Minister for Justice can only be joined, because it is really completely implausible, which was included in the Citizenship Act only on the front pages of "Kronen-Zeitung" and "Daily All". [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] Do you know what those crimes are because of which one can be sentenced to such a penalty of three months? – This is, for example, the bad remorse, which is, for example, the damage to property, which is, for example, the intervention in hunting and fishing rights, which is, for example, the serious disturbance caused by noise. I mean, if we have a citizenship right, in which the § 181a of the Criminal Code, the severe impairment by noise, is an obstacle to award, then it is a restrictive citizenship right. If you doubt this, it is a word of "integration before new immigration", but integration does not exist in the real sense of the word. This law is simply so restrictive that it does not integrate, but actually keeps it away. In order to make you more aware of what I mean, I should also like to point out the deadlines. In the Committee, Mr Kiss – and I almost assume that he will repeat this on the occasion of his speech today – said that there are federal states in Austria who are about to reciprocate citizenship to the citizens of citizenship. [[Abg. Kiss: Correct!]] He said that. [[Abg. Kiss: Correct!]] He also complained that the time limits in the discretionary room were different from those of the federal states. That is right, and I told you in committee and I say it from this point on: It's such a lurk with federalism! The countries then make what they want! If you are a real federalist like my colleague Kiss, you have to put it off quickly, because where are we going if the countries could do what they want - on a subject that he does not like? It was not for this reason that Mr Kiss did not like it because his homeland, the Burgenland, was always very restrictive and the 10- and 30-year-frists have always exploited. He was of the opinion: As an old bulwark on the border with enemy Hungary, we must keep the long deadlines. The neglected rear seats in Vienna, on the other hand, have short periods of time, and therefore the time limits must be increased. Okay, you can represent that when you're called Kiss. We believe that this discretionary margin should have been pulled down, and he would have harmonised. As Mr Jung has said that Austria is not a country of immigration, I have to address the issue of timeliness again. It is not, Mr Jung and Mr Kiss, that we are holding the United States and Canada. We do that sometimes, because it is funny and because it is important countries. And when it comes to NATO discussion, you can't boast the US high enough. That is why we sometimes use them as an example. But I hold you as exotic, extremist and strange countries like France, like Belgium, like the Netherlands, like Great Britain. These are all "exotic" immigration countries, as she described colleague young, where the natives were first exterminated, and then people have to be brought back to the country. So I do not see this, I do not think that France, Belgium, the Netherlands and the UK are countries in the sense of what you meant, Mr Jung. These countries, for example, have five-year deadlines. These countries, of course, have dual citizenship, and these countries have built up essential elements of the ius soli, the birthplace right. Mr Kiss and Mr Jung. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It is not so dissuasive that at a time when we are preaching mobility in which we believe that people must be able to move and settle freely on the European continent, but a little more than in this law at the birthplace of the citizen. If you still know that some of the new citizens in Austria were born last 29 percent in Austria, then you should already think about whether you are meeting the reality of life at all if you are so preoccupied and do not want to assign a significant function to the place of birth. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Therefore, this law, which reaches the deadlines and dual citizenship, makes a restrictive law, a law that speaks of citizenship as it were sacred, a kind of supreme good. That is to say, in the context of European integration with this access, it is a law yesterday because we should strive more for EU citizenship than to deal solely with a strengthening of citizenship in this restrictive sense. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This evil idea of European citizenship may also be understood by Mr Jung, who mentioned the opening to the East in connection with citizenship law. Because of course, horribile dictu, if one day our eastern neighbours, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary or Slovenia, will have achieved accession to the European Union, then they will no longer be treated as sluggishly as we do with the others in this citizenship law, and this could, of course, be worrying in your world, Mr. Jung. It is not in our world, because what is the character of our country? That it has lived with open borders to these countries for centuries! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, the opening of the East means nothing more than the voluntary integration of regions and territories, which were still waged wars about 200 years ago to exploit them. Now they come by themselves, and we reject them!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Jung! If you mention this in connection with the debate on citizenship, I am seriously concerned because you are obviously willing to build up any obstacle to the opening of the East, which you have just come to mind. That is why it was important for me to mention that at this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] That is why you also have such fear of double citizenship, because it may be possible for a human being to concentrate on his conscience and not exclusively on the oath, on some commander-in-chief. I'll tell you: It would sometimes be very beneficial for morals and discipline in this or that troop if their relatives not only called on oath, but sometimes also on their consciences! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You should at least be able to speak the language, don't you?]] If you believe that war and military are top-ranking means for the enforcement of political content, then you are right, then the state needs the flagneid on death and life, then it needs singular citizenship. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a nonsense that you bring! Ask the Moser what he thinks about it!]] Then he absolutely needs them, only then he can say: You're flagrant, if someone refuses military service. I mean, you should think about that. What would double-citizenship be different from what we do in the field of civil service, namely that such a person may not rush to the weapons, but provide civil service? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] That's going to be I think it is reasonable to you, Mr Jung, to recognize that this would be another point of reference for civil service. But, of course, you don't think so far in your military world. That's where the horizon apparently stops at the steel helmet edge. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I say again: Citizenship law, which you present here, is a mistake. It's restrictive. It does not contribute to integration, and it is really sad that you do so at the end of the 20th century. ==References====External links== Instead of building a European perspective, you will build a back-world perspective in the law. And that you know very well, I can tell you this clearly, because Mr Dietachmayr, gratefully, as rapporteur to the next item on the agenda, which is under negotiation together with this one, has done something important. The next item on the agenda, which is under negotiation, is the European Convention on Citizenship, drawn up by the Council of Europe, signed by the Council of Europe. More than 50 states have adopted a framework for citizenship rights. And that wasn't a simple thing, because you know who's a member of the Council of Europe. That was a demanding undertaking. Nevertheless, Austria is too far-hearted to this European Convention, but it is too open to the Austrian Federal Government. The problem has occurred that this is a state contract under Article 50 B-VG which must be fulfilled by law-making. That is what we have discussed in committee. Today, you have had to demonstrate plausibly that this reserve of fulfillment is in accordance with Article 50(1). 2 B-VG by the current citizen's legislation on the one hand – that would be quite good – but, above all, by the reservations that Austria has made when signing this European Convention, it is de facto, because on all those points in the European Convention, which would have opened up a little more, which would have offered a little more opportunities for integration, Austria has been excluded from the Convention by reservations. That is why we do not have to adopt any special laws to comply with this Convention. That says everything about citizenship law and the attitude behind it. First, we sign a European Convention on the Liberalisation and Harmonization of Citizenship Rights, and then we make twelve reservations and do not have to adapt our rights. And what kind of reservations are these, I can give you one, two examples. For example, the European Convention provides that parenthood is an important aspect of the citizenship of children. This would still fit into your world, because you are very much relying on the principle of descent. Unfortunately, however, at the European level there has been no difference in parenthood between marital and immoral parenthood. Therefore, you have had to make a reservation in which you unmistakably express that the father of an illegitimate child in the Austrian legal order in citizenship matters is not to be understood as a parent. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Pfui!]] This is so severe discrimination that I cannot believe that anyone who defines himself as a Christian or who defines himself as a social democratic and who is still sitting together in a government feels that such a thing is tolerable. I think that is unbearable. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] Of similar quality are ten of these twelve reservations. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I appeal to the Members of the Government: Now and only today you have the opportunity to save yourself a serious loss of face, the loss of face, that you decide by a majority here a government agreement with reservations, which, for example, severely discriminates against unwed children. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who do we want to keep the face with?]] If you would like to, then you will have to vote as you have probably already agreed, and because you have already cast your free mandate into a government pact, you will probably have to agree. But I mean, you should really think about if that wasn't a chance. The Federal Government would have taken time to consider the form in which it withdrew these reservations, which it has already explained, and which improvements are necessary in citizenship law. We would be ready to discuss this. I think it would be more than useful if you were to do so, because, apart from the intolerance of the discrimination you are taking here, you have already considered what kind of "exemplary" impression this makes on the co-signatory of the European Convention if such reservations are contained in the protocols, which are distributed internationally and ultimately also stored. These reservations read all the other 50 signatory states, and all those who read this have a rather precise picture of the access of the Republic of Austria to human rights, human dignity, equality and, in particular, dealing with children in this case. That is why I would like to ask you once again: Please agree to the motion for a resolution which I have made to the reading. The agreement for itself without Austrian reservations is modern and progressive. However, it is in a difficult contrast to the new citizenship novel you are presenting here. You need the reservations to protect your citizenship novels. I understood that, but I can't accept it. Therefore, take the path of this motion for a resolution! It gives the government time because it does not have to act immediately, it has a transitional period for fulfilling this resolution. It's still repairable, it's not too late. This does not mean that we want to open the locks, but that means that we want to help the rule of law to its right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9832	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kier and Mr Magistrate. Stoisits, as he was presented here and brought in, is under negotiation. I call Mr Grossruck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9856	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It was necessary to modernise the Citizenship Act, and the objective of the new citizenship law to be decided today is to bring about greater legal certainty, more justice, more equality, more willingness to integrate, but also more value for membership in the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many proposals for the revision of the Citizenship Act have been put in place, there have been many serious discussions, but also many utopias, many false social romances and absurdities. I'll talk about it. The federal states were leading here. The experts involved in daily practice have said that something is no longer together, we have to change something here, and we have taken the initiative. These are those who can speak from the experience of their practice, and not those who make known their ideas from the protected House, as it should actually be, without ever having had anything to do with this matter in practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party has essentially incorporated these proposals into its proposal. Taking practical experience into account is important for us and for a modern citizenship law that is intended to meet and will also be a prerequisite. The present proposal is a compromise that has been concluded with the coalition partner. I admit that we have not been able to carry out all our ideas, but I believe that with today's decision-making we can set an essential mark in the further development of a modern citizenship law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is all too far. [[Abg. Young: Too far!]] Dear colleague Jung, you are known to me as a man without fear and guilt, as a highly decorated officer of the federal army. I don't understand your fear of a stranger who may come in from a foreign worker who may be necessary because the economy needs him. I've only got one suspicion: Perhaps today in the morning your party observer Haider spent the parole: Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must fear in Parliament. Everyone has to be afraid, and if one does not, he is at risk of losing his mandate. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Only in this way can I imagine the fear and the fear, for otherwise it would not be desirable. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The Greens, ladies and gentlemen, are not going too far. I quote from the Committee's report on the Greens' request: "The requirement to grant citizenship only if the applicants have sufficient knowledge of the German, is in fact aimed at losing the native language(s) of the immigrants, as no accompanying linguistic measures are provided to ensure the preservation of their mother tongue. Such an initiative therefore does not lead to a difficult immigration, but also to an assimilation and unilateral adaptation to the German." That's the other extreme. The Greens are calling for the Austrians to learn the language of those who move so that they can become citizens. I really don't understand where the loss of the native language is supposed to be. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is your problem that you do not understand!]] – Mrs Stoisits, you are still coming, you will then be able to explain to us how this is supposed to be your absurdity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Liberals too have a very strange view in this regard. I would like to repeat from a committee report on a request from the Liberals: "The concern for an "ansturm" from foreigners to Austrian citizenship is unfounded when integration-promoting measures are taken for foreigners resident in Austria at the same time reducing the incentive for Austrian citizenship to be treated as an equal citizen." The Liberals therefore call for all serious: Put so many rights in the hands of the devotees that citizenship is nothing more valuable to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals! We can and will not follow that either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party has a very clear understanding and a very clear view of things. We keep it with the millennia-old principle of classical and humanist hospitality, the Hospiteia. For you to know our attitude, I can quote you from the "Irrigations of Odysseus". When Odysseus comes home and his friend, the old pig herd Eumaios, does not recognize him because he is dressed as beggar, Eumaios says the following to him: "Guest, it would not be right – and would still be a lesser man – to disdain a guest; for Zeus belongs to all, aliens and charbens, small but gladly given, it is said by ours." This is the opinion of the Austrian People's Party: To offer hospitality to those who are guests with us, but we also demand that they comply with the law of the Republic of Austria and that they comply with the laws and rights of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is like a red thread by the application that the knowledge of the German language must be a prerequisite for maintaining citizenship. And that, I think, is the key point in this new proposal. I'm quoting one that's unwarranted. It is Wilhelm von Humboldt, who lived 200 years ago and said the following: "The true home is actually the language." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Listen, Mrs. Schaffenrath! "It determines the longing for it, and the distance from the home always goes through the language the fastest." It has already recognized 200 years ago that the language is an essential factor of the home country, of integration, and it is precisely this in our request that it be assessed accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] They're shaken. You can then announce your shock from the speaker's desk. Ladies and gentlemen! For the Austrian People's Party, it is clear that citizenship and citizenship are such a precious and valuable asset that it must be worthwhile for the new citizen and it must be worth him not only to know the language but also to be able and immigrated in the new home country in which the new citizen receives his citizenship. So it's about knowing the language not only, but also being able to. We see this as a prerequisite for integration, for a long-term, continuous integration, as is the case in Holland, Switzerland and other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e9974	That the old Eumaios was already blind and that Odysseus only recognized by one scar, but was not coined on a party, I suppose. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I call Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10005	Poštovani gospodin president! Poštovani gospodin Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the quotations that Mr Großruck has brought, I think only of the following: The attitude of the EIA to citizenship matters is similar to that of the quotes it has made. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: One platitüde in flattness hunts the other!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I decide to reject the word "reform" in relation to the present novel of the citizenship law, because the word "reform" is already in itself that it is progress, at least one step forward. This novelle could at most be described – and that would, I believe, be precise – with the words "change of citizenship law" so to speak neutral. It would be neutral to call it "change." If one makes the effort – and I am making it – to describe this novel that is now available for decision-making correctly, then one should call it summa summa summaum as a deterioration in the conditions for access to Austrian citizenship. This is the result of years of discussion on the reform of citizenship in Austria. Estimated Minister! I would like to put this to you most, even though you are not solely responsible for it, because Dr. One as your predecessor and even Dr. Löschnak have already represented this line. For many years, the reform of citizenship has been spoken of and a change in the citizenship law has been promised, which has been suggested – the word "suggested" I would like to understand as a neutral expression – that the reform will be a step towards Europeanisation of the Austrian citizenship law, which has also been expected to be the general discussion of recent years, namely that a reform should be made which deserves this name as well. We are – and there you can discuss as much as you want – with the legal conditions for access to citizenship, with this law, which is not yet decided and in which there is still a spark of hope that there will be changes, that is, with the existing law and with the new law final light in the European field, because one can only compare the same thing with the same, and in this case, I believe, Mr Kier has already said, we can only compare ourselves with those countries which have a structure similar to that of immigration and thus also citizenship and citizenship awards. You have – over the years; over the years you cannot say, because you are ministers for only a year and a half – always announced reliefs in the public, but what has now come out are simple and simple intensifications. They have repeatedly announced that there will be a harmonization of deadlines. What happened? – While there are four deadlines in the current citizenship law, there will be six deadlines in the future. It should not mean anything bad or negative, that there are a wide range of deadlines, but those time limits that have been added are not, for example, corrections of the longer time limits for access to citizenship law, but are, if one wants to call it, interim periods which do not alter the substance of the current law: 30 years are waiting for the claim to become Austrian, and 30 years – yes, of course! – Wohlbehört. [[Abg. Murauer: Eh clear!]] Ten years is required to have its headquarters in Austria in order to have access to citizenship at all. There is no right at all to obtain citizenship as well. Ten long years! – This is the second deadline. The third deadline – everything I quote is valid law and will continue to be right, because nothing changes –: There is still, because the law still applies, the possibility of being granted citizenship after four years, under particularly considerate circumstances, that is, in the absolute special case. This possibility remains – however, the new law radically restricts the circle of those who can benefit from this possibility. Estimated Minister! My main argument, why I can give your public demands, there are reliefs, absolutely not faith, is based on the fact that with the code word "unification of deadlines" there are no fewer differences between practice in the individual federal states, because the deadlines are nowhere binding – except for the legal claim after 30 years. But you know that it is very rare that there are such varieties. The time-limits that have been introduced have now been negatively raised down, now, because those federal states that have not allowed the citizenship seekers to wait so long until no way has passed, will continue their practice. I do not think that Upper Austria will change its practice in the future, because even if a foreigner is looking for citizenship in Austria for many years, one calls the employer and asks: Is he okay anyway? And don't say what it's all about. I do not think that the country of Upper Austria will change its practice. Yes, why so? – The signal that comes from the federal law is: Let's make it as hard as possible for people! Let us keep as little as possible the exceptions provided for by the law! – This is the message connected with it! Federal Minister! This is for me the uncanny end of a promising discussion and the uncanny end of promising announcements. For the draft law that I wrote in XVIII, in the IXX. And now also in the XX. The legislative period, which outlines the ideas of the Greens – and if the Members are interested, they can read them in a rough outline in the Committee's report; I lack the time to go into every detail – which contains thoughts which have been taken not only from the considerations of the Greens but also from the considerations of the Ministry of the Interior, which lie behind years. The considerations from the Ministry of the Interior formed the basis for this. These are, I admit, social-democratic ideas as to how citizenship in Austria would have been reformed. So it is not like the colleagues of the ÖVP are trying to present it, namely nebulos and completely beyond reality! There are two lines: First of all, there is the line: "What's good for this country?" as a guideline on citizenship and second the line: "What brings us to the average of a European level?"and we want to implement that. – That would have been it, Mr Federal Minister, which would have corresponded to the desire to make a novel, a reform! But, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, none of this is contained in the novelle! – The deadlines are extended – extended in a wide variety of ways! – and the access is tightened. It will – I don't want to go into the details now; Dr. Kier has already explained this in detail – the six-month sentence has been reduced to three months, both conditional and imperative. But in my opinion, this is a bad case! It is about the fact that these people do not necessarily want to come quickly to citizenship, but rather to enforce a claim, but that they cannot enforce a claim. It is always done so, so every "pulver" – under quotation marks – would immediately receive citizenship. On the contrary! Austrian citizenship – I expressly acknowledge – is a great asset, but it is not a higher asset than other citizenship. I reject an Austrian chauvinism in the direction as if Austrian citizenship were a higher asset and therefore more valuable than other, decidedly. [[Abg. Scheibner: For us already!]] Austrian citizenship is that framework which – and now I am referring to the award of citizenship – allows fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have been living with us for a long time in Austria to participate in democratic life in Austria – and that is the starting point for me in this discussion. Because, ladies and gentlemen, If you do not have an Austrian passport, you cannot of course even choose your mayor and district council in Austria if the community has only 90 inhabitants like Tschanigraben in Burgenland, although you have lived in Austria for decades. And that's the point! People are uneven as long as they do not have this possibility, although they are treated equally outwardly. They pay the same taxes. I have never heard foreigners pay less taxes or that they have any privilege. You have to pay the charges just as everyone else. You must, of course, comply with all the laws of the Republic of Austria – but they are not allowed to speak in any way! That is why there is a reform to be done: so that we do not continue this two-class society ad infinitum. This is also an essential argument for dual citizenship. I am far from putting forward the demand that every person in Austria should immediately have a double citizenship, because he is also seeking Austrian citizenship. My request is to consider whether it would be useful to see the ius solo – to use the terminus technician now – as a double ius solo realized, which would prevent someone born in Austria and whose parents were already born in Austria from still being foreigners in Austria. We are constantly producing new foreigners, if the children of people born in Austria are still foreigners. What am I for a foreigner when my parents are already born in Austria and I am only because my parents do not have an Austrian passport, are foreigners and are thus excluded from democratic decision-making processes and do not have the same opportunities as domestics? These are the considerations, Mr Bundesminister, which are to be found here. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] I am sorry to speak to you, but you have proposed the government proposal. Looks like Dr. Khol left the hall. Oh, no, he's still there! [[Abg. Dr. Khol is on the left side of the bureau and is in a conversation.]] I hope he talks about the subject. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I think he's ashamed!]] It may be true that the ÖVP has stood out on all points, as it has loudened out. For me, the fact that the ÖVP has enforced itself in all respects means that it has, in fact, offered to the FPÖ an opportunity to enforce one of the last and not yet fulfilled demands of the foreign people of FPÖ, namely the demand for "Austria is not a country of immigration" to make it a bit more true again by not facilitating access to citizenship, but strictly aggravating it. This brings me to the word "German knowledge" and to your slogan "Integration instead of new entry", Mr. Federal Minister. Federal Minister! "Integration instead of re-entry", this slogan stands in space, so to speak. – Of course, I want measures to be taken for those who already live with us, who have come to Austria to spend the rest of their lives with us, with whom we support them. But if you, Mr Federal Minister, had been faithful to your own slogan, you would have had to present a completely different novel, then you would have had to include in the law those points that serve integration instead of re-entry. Instead, the following has been written in: "Similar knowledge of the German language is imperative when it comes to the acquisition of citizenship." [[Abg. Grandruck: Right!]] Anyone who would claim not to be German is not a disadvantage would be quite realistic. Anyone who lives in Austria can only say: Learn German or control the German language, because it makes your life much easier! whether this is so-called domestics or foreigners, because 400 000 Austrians do not live domestically but abroad. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does "so-called" mean?]] The fact that grandparents have an Austrian passport but live elsewhere does not move Austria to withdraw Austrian citizenship. On the contrary: Of course they can keep them! Whether they can read a word German, of course, I don't think anyone is going to check it out. Whether they know how many square kilometres the Attersee has, which is a question of citizenship awards in Upper Austria, of course no one checks, because they are Austrians from birth. It is precisely this right, if you want to do so, that equal treatment would also be imaginable for people who actually live in Austria. But what are you doing in Austria? – In Austria, the new law operates with an undetermined term of law, which reads: "corresponding knowledge of German language". What is that? – corresponding knowledge of the German language can be: Orthography flawless, correct German in words and writing so to speak. I would not say that I can do so absolutely without error. Really not! [[Abg. Kiss: You're a Croatian!]] I would think that hardly anyone here in the room fully masters German spelling, especially in times of spelling reform. This can be subsumed under "corresponding knowledge of the German language". But it remains left to the individual official in the authority to decide what is "corresponding". My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not only that suspicion is increasingly nourishing in me that this indebtedness does not comply with the rule of law of the Constitution – that is only one aspect – but also the fear that the arbitrariness will be opened in this decision. This stems, Mr Federal Minister, from no wild imagination from me, but from the experiences gained in the citizenship award procedure in recent years. What is the extent of the integration of the foreigners by which one is to be guided is a similar undetermined term, which is part of this law. Mr. Federal Minister! Since my time is already drawing to a close, although I believe that I have a few minutes to speak, I would now like to sum up what I consider to be the most important elements of a reform of citizenship: First: Access to Austrian citizenship is to be facilitated overall while at the same time regulating national unity. Both of them do not agree with this change of law! [[Abg. Kiss: What would he look like?]] Secondly, It would be – and I think that is a central demand! – to grant the right to Austrian citizenship in the event of benevolence after 10 years – so far after 30 years. However, it remains with the old law! [[Abg. Kiss: The legal claim?]] Thirdly, In the second generation and in the third generation, immigrants are either to be given the option of being full - there is a big discussion about this in Germany - or simply when the right to double citizenship is fully valid, as is the case in France, for example. Fourth: It is intended to create the possibility of maintaining existing citizenship, which means that it should be possible to acquire dual citizenship. It is also intended to bring the time-limit system to a European level, which means that they are to be reduced. All these points, ladies and gentlemen, have not been fulfilled. Not even that announcement was realized – and I took it very seriously – by Professor Dr. Khol, Klubobmann of the ÖVP, in a hearing with experts who organized the green club here in Parliament, in which he responded very sensitively to the following question: Yes, we can't get at least old people, over 60 years old – there are also 70-year-olds and older people who want or want to get citizenship in Austria; usually refugees because there are no immigrants to Austria who are 70 years old – saving the burden of language tests and exams? For this is something, Mr Federal Minister, which exists in all the so-called immigration countries, which are also citizens: that old people do not need to prove the knowledge of the language. There is nowhere in the law that a person should receive citizenship without knowledge of the German language. For one would not write in "corresponding knowledge" if it were possible without this proof to get this access. I do not think that this is a non-worldly demand of the Greens, but it is an existing system in every civilized country. And for that...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10175	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10190	..., Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask colleagues for support so that at least a spark of humane and thus also legal principles will remain in this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10220	The next speaker is Mr Anton Gaál. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today was said in a speech – Dr. Kier it was before, I think, who said that – that integration is just a keyword for us, I would like to hold on – and the novel of the citizenship law shows it – that integration is going before immigration. For all the actions you have said here, I would like to stress that for us – and the novelle shows this too – this integration is an obligation that we strive to live up to every day. If you are using the previous procedure... [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But not in the novel, but outside the novelle!]] No, I think if you read it carefully and see the matter a little positive – with all the constructive criticism that has just come from your side and which I take very seriously personally and my friends – you have to say that you can see from the previous procedure that you have done with a lot of attention and responsibility in the implementation of the law, because to the same extent the interests of the Austrians and foreigners have been taken into account. Already the existing citizenship law, ladies and gentlemen, has proved itself very well in the past. In order to give honor to the truth, I can already say that we can point to a very successful and recognised policy across Europe. The government template to be decided today proves that we want to continue this tried and proven policy, because, as I said, the law takes into account the interests of the Austrian population and at the same time meets the people, the needs of the people who have found a new home in Austria. In our opinion, the main points for the reform are the harmonization of access times in the acquisition of Austrian citizenship, and we have to take this into account, because the award of Austrian citizenship is, in our view, not only one of many steps of successful integration, but the last, and we really do not see any reason to start from practice so far. Therefore, double citizenship, as in the past, will only be granted in exceptional cases, they should not become a regular case. As far as the many-quoted language skills, ladies and gentlemen, not one has won over the other, but we have found a very healthy compromise in the government coalition, with which it can be lived in the truest sense of the word, because the measure of the criteria for granting citizenship is the integration of the aliens, and an important feature of integration is also the German knowledge, which is particularly important here. The experience of recent years has shown, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of language skills is one of the greatest barriers to integration. We therefore believe that language skills must not be the problem, but rather the indication of integration. We therefore believe that an acceptable solution could be found in terms of language control in this law. There will not be an examination in citizenship, nor will the German language be examined, but it is simply about the proof of the German language. That is what we are going to insist on, because all those of us who are dealing with this problem and these questions – I come from a district in which we have the absolute numbers, I think, most foreigners in this city, and my colleague Fuchs will confirm this – know that there are problems here. These problems are politically soluble, and we will solve them together. I hope that you will make a contribution because we are talking about a respectful and fair relationship with all foreign people in our country, and we will continue to stick to it in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Citizenship Act aims at mutual agreement here. Let us try to live together, as far as possible without confrontations and with mutual respect. Immigration should not just happen, but should be regulated. The Citizenship Act, which we have to adopt here today, is for me a pact for fairness and decentness and therefore finds our full support.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10288	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10310	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Referring to Mr Leikam's speech: Finally, please note that we will not be intimidated by your old-known method of defaming the liberals if you do not like their opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us also note that if we represent the interests of the Austrians, we do not let ourselves be put to death if you accuse us that we are foreigners. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will simply not let that happen, and it is not at all true. We are not forbidden to have different objectives in foreign policy than you, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: the honest and decent!]] I would like to say one more thing: Their short-sightedness and one-sidedness in tourist affairs are really crying out to heaven. If you, Mr Leikam, believe that 50 000 people from abroad who are willing to work at the lowest prices have no influence on the labour market, then you are a foreign dreamer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know, it would be much better if you admit it, then you could clearly discuss it, then you could say: What can you do about it? [[Abg. Leikam: You only need to ask your colleagues who employ foreigners. Ask your colleagues! It's not that difficult! There's enough!]] But to say that it has no influence if 50,000 Bosnians are drawn to the labour market, that, I must say, is absurd! [[Abg. Leikam: There are enough people in your ranks!]] Mr Grossruck – I do not know if he is there or not – made fun of Mr Jung and he was as anxious as if he were afraid of foreigners. He made him ridiculous. [[Abg. Kiss: No, no, he said the opposite!]] You know, when Mr. Grossruck was in the 15. District would live where a Turkish district president might be elected under a foreign election, because there are so many foreigners there, then he would speak differently. [[Abg. Kiss: He just said that someone here "Fear!" has been spending!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Grossruck! If you're in the 16th century. The district would live where 60 percent of foreigners live in certain areas, then you would probably no longer be so ridiculous about colleagues Jung and suspect that he was afraid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: This is uncertainty!]] I'll see. If you come from the federal states, you probably have a different view of things. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But go through Vienna with open eyes, then you will see what is happening here. The Austrians suffer from this, and therefore we represent the interests of the Austrians. I would ask you finally to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the Citizenship Act in concrete terms: The Minister himself admitted in the Committee that in recent years the number of citizenship has doubled. In 1997, it was 16 274 inhabitants. In Vienna, where it is particularly easy to incite, there were 8 600, most of which were citizens when the waiting period was exceeded. Mrs Stoisits! In this context, if Austria is said to be not human, this is just as wrong as the criticism that Mr Leikam or Mr Großruck has been making. In fact, the citizenship award is simply being handled too generously. That's what we're criticising. We do not see why someone should be formally flouted with citizenship, why someone should be granted citizenship after four years of residence. There is no integration yet. That is why we say that waiting periods should not be interrupted: Ten years' stay in Austria, and then someone should apply for citizenship. That's our view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, Mrs Stoisits is no longer here. It believes that Austrian citizenship should not be considered higher than other citizenship, comparatively in Europe. That's right. But that the award of citizenship should be based on the criteria of the smallest parliamentary party, or the second smallest party, the Liberals, which is also absurd. It is rather necessary to hear the opinion of the largest opposition party. After all, we represent a million voters, and they do not agree with the way in which Austrian citizenship is handled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: And the 7 million others?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: 4 million! We don't have 8 million voters in Austria!]] Unfortunately, I have to be brief. I would just like to say one thing about the German courses: The German knowledge has now been introduced as an important criterion, but unfortunately you, Mr Minister, miss out on the fact that these German skills are really being reviewed – in general and in Austria uniformly – whether these German skills are actually present. Now the official will probably ask: "How are you?", and the citizen says: "Good!" and already the German knowledge has been confirmed. We demand that everyday situations be mastered. I think it really is not too much to demand if one expects from someone who acquires the valuable good of citizenship that he easily masters his everyday actions in the language of that country from which he has received citizenship. We are not satisfied with this regulation of German knowledge and would have imagined something different. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Colleagues Stadler with his calls?]] Nor is there any harmonisation of deadlines, nor is there any solution to the problem of shams. We will not agree to this government proposal because we have presented ourselves with other criteria for the award of citizenship.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10527	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10549	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by mentioning a few figures which seem important to me and which, I believe, also symbolize clearly that Austria is a country in which it was very possible in the past to preserve citizenship, and in which it is also possible to obtain citizenship in the future. I assume that everyone knows we have 8.1 million inhabitants. In the middle of this year, there are about 750 000 foreign citizens. The majority of people from the former Yugoslavia represent around 330 000, the second large proportion being people from Turkey with around 140 000, followed by the European Union with 90 000, with the main share coming from Germany, namely 61 000. In addition, over the last ten years, we have given a little more than 100,000 people the opportunity to gain Austrian citizenship. Last year, 1997, it was exactly 16 274. Of this, the main share is for the country of Vienna – that is true – of which 8 600. However, I would like to say clearly that only 20 percent of these 8 600 who were granted citizenship in Vienna were granted them early, i.e. ten years ago in Austria. Most of them got them because he... no. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: After six years!]] Most of them have received it because the person or person concerned has either married an Austrian or an Austrian woman – that was 1,379 – or because she has been extended to married or unmarried children or minors – in 2 601 cases – and 1,792 people have received citizenship because they lived here for ten years. That is to say, it has been exactly 1,680 people who received citizenship ten years ago. I think these figures are important to the argument against the claim that in the past, one has supposedly lost citizenship in Vienna. I don't think that's true. Nor is it true, Mr Young, that the foreign citizens we have in Austria are so criminal. The opposite is the case. [[Abg. Young: In certain offences, I said!]] Please? [[Abg. Young: I have spoken of certain crimes committed by foreigners!]] On the contrary, Mr Deputies! It turns out that these 750 000 foreign citizens we have in Austria are much less criminal than domestic citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your own security report says the opposite!]] What is true, however, Mr Jung, is foreign crime. These are the people who are short-term... [[Abg. Scheibner: Your own security report says the opposite!]] Yes, but it must be formulated very precisely, and I believe that this must be very, very clearly distinguished. It is a difference whether I accuse someone who lives in Austria for a number of years but is not an Austrian citizen that he is criminal, or whether I accuse those groups of people who come across the border for various reasons in the short term, commit crimes here and then leave Austria again. This crime of tourism goes across the vegetable garden of criminal offences – it starts in the winter in the winter and ends with spectacular acts, such as we had recently, when two Italians attacked a transport office last week, for example, or when a bus was attacked. [[Abg. Smolle: Rosenstingl is such a foreign criminal in Brazil!]] That's the range of the crime. We have a clear increase in this foreign crime. At the end of the 1980s, we had a share of 9 percent. This rose to 20 percent in 1997 and 30 percent in the case of serious crimes. For me, it is very important to distinguish here and to note that the foreign citizens who live in this country who want to be integrated into this country and who also see a home for the future in that country are much less criminal than the domestic citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum, the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Where's that?]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: in all statistics!]] [[Abg. Leikam: In the security report!]] Mr deputies, in every safety report! I am happy to give you the 1996 safety report. [[Call to the liberals: This is the exact opposite!]] No, believe me! But I'd like to be willing to discuss it with you afterwards. [[Abg. Scheibner: 180 000 have you rated from the 750 000, and there says that crime is the same!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, really, that's true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In the prejudices you are so...!]] No, we do not work with prejudices, but Mr Jung said that xenophobia, foreign crime, is much higher. I have tried to point out clearly that there must be a distinction between the criminality of the people living in Austria and being foreign citizens, and the criminality of foreigners who change the border in the short term, who come to Austria, put crime and then leave. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] Here you have to distinguish. As far as tourism crime is concerned, it is much higher than domestic citizens. The foreign citizens who live here, on the other hand, have much lower crime. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, that's not right!]] Then let's look at that together. Nor is it right for me to say what Mrs Stoisits has said: that this law is a deterioration, that in the future this law will interpret citizenship restrictively. Nor do I agree that it is not a reform and only a deterioration. I agree that I would have liked to have had other deadlines. There is a draft law prepared by my ministry, in which the deadlines from ten years would have been significantly reduced to eight years and in which the legal claim would have been reduced from 30 years to 15 years. These were deadlines with which I entered the first round of negotiations with the coalition partner and with the nine countries. We have noted, above all, the resistance of the nine countries, which have been very clear for maintaining the ten-year period, as a minimum period. However, we have clearly stated the circumstances under which it is possible to acquire citizenship even before the end of ten years. Mrs Stoisits! There are some things that, I believe, allow many foreign citizens who live in Austria to gain citizenship before having their headquarters in Austria for ten years. Firstly, all refugees who have been granted asylum can already acquire citizenship after four years. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's what it is up to now!]] This is a clear improvement. Secondly, Everyone born in Austria can already acquire citizenship after six years. Thirdly, After six years, all who are permanently integrated personally and professionally can acquire Austrian citizenship. In future, this is uniform in all nine federal states, and I believe that this is a clear progress. It is also important for me to say that for minors who live in the second or third generation in Austria, there is the possibility of starting with 14. ==References====External links==* Official website And if they have lived in this country for four years, they have the claim – also against the will of their own parents, if that is the case – to obtain Austrian citizenship. What does that mean? . I think we have put in place a number of measures to enable Austrian citizenship to be acquired clearly before the ten-year limit. We have also tried to reduce the cost of the acquisition of citizenship significantly by changing the proof of the exodus of the former state association in such a way that only everything is necessary in order to be able to get out of the former state association. This will guarantee that there will no longer be high discount payments, as has been the case in the past. [[Abg. Leikam: You don't take note of that either?]] What is very important to me is the question of crime and the three months of imprisonment. A deliberate criminal offence that has been punished with more than three months of imprisonment constitutes an obstacle to the award of citizenship. This does not mean, therefore, that this applies to a criminal offence, which is three months in a law, but that, in fact, a penalty has been imposed for more than three months. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Also conditional!]] The debate on the question of the reservation has been very emotional in the Committee. I don't want to repeat all of this again. I believe that, because of the legal situation, there are very many good reasons for making this reservation known. And I would like to make it clear here that it is important and correct that an unmarried child does not automatically receive the father's citizenship. What if, for example, an Austrian citizen travels to a foreign country and testifies to a child there? You can't automatically give this child Austrian citizenship. However, I believe that this reservation should be re-examined. I have therefore given the task of examining whether the maintenance of this reservation by Austria is necessary in maintaining the law currently in force. If the legal review comes to the conclusion that this reservation does not have to be maintained, I will propose to the Federal Government that this reservation be withdrawn. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this novel to the Citizenship Act is a successful compromise between the interests and needs of the nine federal states and the federal government. In my opinion, it is a novel that helps to facilitate the integration of the people who live in Austria, who become Austrian citizens, it is a novel that is transparent, which brings a reduction in deadlines and will help many foreign citizens to have easier, better, faster and fair access to Austrian citizenship over the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10841	The next speaker is Mr Platter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10863	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Partik-Pablé! No doubt I accept Your statement that you want to represent the interests of the Austrians. But please also accept that we also do so with far-sightedness and with a special commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You want to do us!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! You misquoted colleagues Grossruck. You meant that Mr Großruck said in his speech today that your boss probably spent the parole in the morning: Fear! Mr Grossruck said, however, that he will have spent the parole: Fear the evil foreigners! - Dear colleague Großruck! I think you meant that there is no doubt that we cannot represent such a policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to argue something else. We live in a very beautiful country, a country in which one undoubtedly feels comfortable, in which one feels secure, a country in which the living conditions are certainly very pleasant. [[Abg. May. Peter: In which you make a vacation!]] To own citizenship of our country Austria is something special. Austrian citizenship is a great asset – Mrs Stoisits, you have said it yourself – and this high asset is undoubtedly to be defended. Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore a need for clear and equal conditions for the acquisition of Austrian citizenship for all federal states. If today, ladies and gentlemen, the citizenship law is to be amended, I am delighted about it. I am pleased that the conditions for the acquisition of Austrian citizenship are fundamentally strengthened. I recognize the difference between the Greens and the Liberals that this intensification will now take place. In addition to the deadlines to be observed, the most important prerequisite for the award of Austrian citizenship is basic knowledge of the German language. This does not only mean an intensification of Austrian citizenship law, but rather this knowledge is necessary for reasonable integration. That's why this passus in the law is long overdue. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the coalition partner finally agreed to this ÖVP request. I would like to admit that Mr Schlögl, Minister of the Interior, accepted our demand for basic knowledge of the German language very quickly during the negotiations. It is felt that the Minister of the Interior has been mayor for many years and knows the feelings of the citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are some points that are changed in citizenship law and which I would like to call pleasing. First point: The legal claim after 30 years remains valid, and it also seems very essential to me that the ten-year period should remain in principle despite other efforts. Second point: In the case of special achievements in scientific, economic, artistic and sporting fields, the time limit is increased from currently four to six years. This is now to be done in a uniform manner. This is a clear intensification of this law, I admit. The different procedures of the federal states can thus be stopped. Third point: Of course, a further strengthening of citizenship law is also the fact that in the future there will be an obstacle to award if a person has been legally sentenced to three months of imprisonment for a purpose – earlier it was six months. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, this is a good change to the citizenship law. I would like to thank the Minister and the Coalition Partner for accepting our good arguments, and I would like to see as much majority as possible of the new, more stringent citizenship right as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10930	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e10955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his reply to Mr Jung, the Minister of the Interior has claimed that crime among foreigners who are longer in Austria, i.e. in the case of guest workers, is much lower, as he has literally said, than in the case of comparable countries. This claim is incorrect. [[Abg. Smolle: That's right! That's right!]] I quote from the 1996 Security Report, which is still famous for the fact that, due to other comparisons, these figures are more differentiated. It's on page 135: "On the basis of the statistical data now available, much more differentiated, it can be found... that the criminality burden of male host workers from 19 to less than 40 years in the context of crimes against body and life, against foreign property, against the morality, the offence against morality and the crimes as a whole is slightly higher than that of the Austrian population...."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11006	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11027	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to refer to a number that you have already mentioned in committee, namely the alleged 8,000 citizenships in Vienna. Due to a demand from the Austrian Central Statistical Office today, I would like to inform you that there were 9 012 citizenships in Vienna in 1997 and 3 478 foreigners. That's a total of 12,490 people. This is exactly 12 025 indigenous births. That is to say, from this point of view, the proportion of foreigners is substantially above that of nationals. I almost want to say that's like a population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: What? What, Mr. Colleague? Shame for the word!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] For the second. Mr Leikam! If you are here from the speaker's desk towards the Freedom Party... [[Abg. Smolle: That's outrageous!]] [[Abg. Leikam: You have no character at all!]] The comparison may be permissible – allegations have not been made!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11128	The speaker is speaking! - Please continue. [[Continued calls.]] I'll interrupt the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11167	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue this session properly. I call Mr Lammer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11185	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After I have been brought to the attention of the President of the Council, I withdraw this expression. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] I'm continuing in my speech. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Leikam! If you, as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, address the liberals here from the speaker's desk with the hatred of strangers and the like, I wonder where justice remains here. [[Abg. Leikam: This is the proof!]] They are allowed to do such things, and the liberals are reproved for any statement that is, of course, always different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: How do you mean this expression?]] [[Prolonged calls.]] But I'd like to...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11258	Ladies and gentlemen! I really ask you to calm down. If a speaker uses an expression he then withdraws, then we have always accepted it. I haven't heard a word other than this. If I've missed something, I'm sorry, that could happen to me, of course. But this word has been withdrawn with the expression of regret, and now the speaker is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11297	I would nevertheless like to make a few comments on the citizenship law. If it is now said by the ÖVP that the novelle contains precisely its requirements, and they thank the SPÖ for having taken over their demands, then it must already be said – especially with regard to the basic rules regarding the consideration of the corresponding knowledge of the German language – that this is not true. In the request of Mr Grossruck, it is stated that... not or insufficiently integrated into the living conditions in the country, that he does not rule the national language in word and writing, or that he has only failed to do enough to attend successful integration training... – However, that is no longer the content of the government template as it is on the table today. So I say, as I did in my debate contribution to the previous item on the agenda: There too, Mr Grossruck was pulled over the table to give in to the intentions of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That one of your demands, which you have presented black and white, could well win off a lot. But this course of action is not that of the liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11342	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11363	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lammer! If you have deliberately taken the word from the population into your mouth, it is reprehensible and unfortunate. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But if you've done it unconsciously, I'll see what's inside your head – and that's only really sad, believe me! [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Smolle and Dr. Gabriela Moser.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That doesn't show anything!]] It shows me how some of the members of the Freedom Party may be instrumentalized to think, feel, act and argue in a certain direction, to bring racism into this country and thus also into this House. I reject that, we reject it! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Smolle.]] Of course, the fact that the new citizenship law is of course a fine ground to argue in this direction shows the controversial discussion we are now discussing on this... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The scientists are being instrumentalized, colleague!]] Yes, yes, of course! This shows this controversial discussion, the contributions that have been made, in particular the different positions of the various parties. These are, of course, far apart. What is essential is that the government coalition has introduced a novel, a novel with an eyeset, with reason, a novel that brings us exactly what we, as Austrians, on the one hand, and on the other, also for those foreigners who want to become Austrians: with measure, with the aim of thinking, especially with reason, about how we make an Austrian foreigner. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We of the Austrian People's Party have had three goals: First: We felt, in agreement with the countries, that many things are not in the hands of the lot. We almost felt that there were nine different citizenship rights in Austria. That can't be the meaning of a right that's given at the federal level! Secondly, We have felt that there are very different practices regarding the award of citizenship. In one country, it has been very restrictive, very generous in another federal country. Two examples: In the Burgenland there were 183 awards of citizenship last year, in Vienna there were 8 600. To the relation: The Burgenland has 300 000 inhabitants, Vienna has 1.5 million inhabitants. Now I admit, of course, that Vienna, as an urban site, has much, much more sog power than the Burgenland, but yet this ratio of population – five times more Vienna – to the population in relation to citizenship – is 47 times more awards – is a misrelation. Third – an essential area; I think that has also been significant –: We were of the opinion that citizenship is an ideal asset. This high ideal is based on this novel. We believe that this has created a good law that allows foreigners to become Austrians, and that the motto of this government coalition, which the Minister has committed himself to, which we have committed ourselves to, namely, integration before re-entry, is carefully thought through and also lived in practice.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11435	There is now a speech by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé before. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. 19.0 1
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11455	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have once again seen that you simply do not want to accept that we have a different political opinion. [[Abg. Grabner: Eh not!]] I think you should finally accept that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But we have already seen this in Mr Jung's speech. You have also fallen over colleague Jung because he has had a different opinion than you. It must be possible in a Parliament to have a different opinion, even in such a sensitive matter as foreign law. They want to kill everyone who represents a different opinion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Only the words!]] And this is the disgusting. They are always those who want to act after the political correctness. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is no shame!]] You always know what's right, what's decent, what's fair. But in practice, you are miles away from being politically correct. I'd like to tell you that. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] You think you can call our supervisor "leader" without penalty. That's all you do, but if any of us have a different opinion, you want to raise the grave right away. That's not how it is! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You just stand up!]] Mr Kostelka can go on the table without any problems with the fist. Imagine what you would have done if that had been a freeman! You would've stamped him in the ground and the ground. But we won't let ourselves be banned here. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11580	Mr Kostelka has now spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11601	Mrs Partik-Pablé! It is not a question of forbidding someone from your group's mouth or taking the freedom of speech into this circle. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You weren't there when Mr. Leikam poured over!]] The only thing that matters is that we are dealing with what you and your colleague Lammer have said. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They have a laugh with you in the group!]] And what is likely to be seen in this context is that from the "ordinary employment policy in the Third Reich" to the "straflager", to the reference that has been proved in Krumpendorf, the concentration camp criminals are able to draw a continuous line up to the "citizen" and that you are trying to apologise accordingly with the claim that someone has a different opinion. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Remember the workers' swimming association where you discriminate against the disabled!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] We respect your opinion in connection with a citizenship law novel or whatever. But the word "repopulation" in this house, which was once the Gauhaus, has a very special meaning, and we should all be careful to declare that as a "other opinion". [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (to Freedom) Learn history!]] I say quite frankly to you: At least I have expected you to come out and explain the way the President did: The word has been withdrawn with the expression of regret, it is not to be considered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] But they've known about it again. And that is very important to me, because all of us have to be clear: At this point, every word is free of any responsibility – in criminal matters, but also in any other context. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Thank God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your entire diffamation as well!]] But everyone who makes a word come over his lips must be aware that he also has to admit it to the public. I notice: There is the expression of the "overpopulation" which has been withdrawn by a Member of Parliament, but which has unfortunately been confirmed by another Member of this House. I deeply regret this and am ashamed of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11726	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word has not been required from the reporting point of view. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be taken separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Mrs Stoisits, I would like to concentrate on the voting process. We shall first vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1320 of the Supplements. This draft law contains constitutional provisions, so that, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I first find that the constitutionally prescribed presence quorum is given. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. I note in this connection that the constitutional quota for the two-thirds majority is necessary. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This draft has also been adopted by the majority – in the case of the constitutionally prescribed two-thirds quorum – at third reading. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, and reservations and declarations by the Republic of Austria in 1089 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – The request has been accepted by the majority. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Internal Affairs for the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(a) of the Treaty. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passing laws must be voted, and in this context I also refer to the rapporteur's statements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Kier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits and comrades concerning the withdrawal of Austrian reservations and declarations on the European Convention on Citizenship. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1316 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The notice takes place in a majority way. Adopted by a majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Interior to take note of its report 1317 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request has been accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 1318 report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request has been accepted by a majority. That is what the votes are all about. 15. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (1219 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the German Law on the Law on the Law of the Wehr 1990 (1309 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report and request of the National Defence Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1992 Army Fees Act (1310 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11874	We now come to the items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. We are going into the debate. Mr Wabl does not wish to speak so that we can start the debate with Mr Dr Maitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11906	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendments to the Wehrgesetz and the Military Fees Act have three main points on the subject. Firstly, the special remuneration of military pilots in the airspace surveillance service. Secondly, the possibility of leaving time soldiers in this status four months longer in order to facilitate their entry into professional soldiers. Thirdly, the improvement of the income of time soldiers in training. First point: Military pilots in the airspace surveillance service. You know that we have decided a novel not long ago and that in this novel, due to a editorial accident, all the military pilots were unwittingly mentioned and would thus be included in the special arrangement. It was meant of course that this special scheme should apply exclusively to the airspace surveillance service. Therefore, today's revision is also provided with constitutional provisions in order to clarify this and ensure the retroactive effect of this law. This is an exception, but a necessary exception. Ladies and gentlemen! Because today's debate will be about the Draken pilots, let me say the following: There are still people in Austria who think all serious, for airspace surveillance one could use helicopters instead of interceptors. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Who says that?]] I would like to draw a comparison from road traffic: This proposal would be comparable to the call for tractors to be used as civilian strips against shaving on motorways. In the around 830 000 annual flight movements over Austria, there are about 70 unknown objects that are intercepted and identified. In a state of tension – whether it is a thousand kilometers away from Austria – it can be affected within a few minutes that violate the Austrian airspace and thus Austrian state territory. [[Abg. Scheibner: "Act X"!]] In order to meet this, we need on the one hand our "gold hood" as a radar monitoring system and on the other hand powerful aircraft with trained pilots as interceptors. Secondly, the possible extension of the term of service from six months to ten months. The six-month ceiling was in practice a problem for both the time soldiers and the German army; a problem in training through time pressure and a problem in a possible takeover as a military person on time, i.e. as a professional soldier. We have chosen the ten months envisaged to facilitate the training pressure and takeover. An even longer transitional period, as proposed in an amendment proposal, is, we do not believe, targeting, because we want future professional soldiers of the Austrian federal army to create their training steps in an appropriate time. This is also a quality feature that we want from future officers and officers. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, when they are taken!]] This is also a reason for the new extension by four months. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: colleague Maitz! That was known!]] The third point: Remuneration of the time soldiers. The cash cover of the time soldiers in the first six months will be increased by 1 442 S and will be 9 732 S in future. In addition, free travel by public transport and the free accommodation and food without any restrictions. So far, there have been such restrictions. This creates more justice and strengthens the incentive to serve as a time soldier to the Austrian federal army. We want to achieve that. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this brief contribution, I should like to thank three Members of this House who, together with me, made an information visit to the European command of NATO and the NATO headquarters in Brussels last week. I thank you for the dedicated and expert contributions of colleagues Gerald Tychtl, Wolfgang Jung and Thomas Barmüller. We have different positions in Brussels – and this is very important! As an Austrian delegation, attention and recognition have been given to both the high-ranking interlocutors of NATO and the journalists who have traveled with us. I just mention: 15 articles on this subject in the daily newspapers, a 5-minute report in the television magazine "Hohes Haus". Thanks again for the collegial climate during this first visit of Austrian parliamentarians to the NATO headquarters in Brussels! I sometimes wish I could do something about this collegial climate here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e11993	I call Mr Gaál. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12014	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current amendment to the Wehrgesetz is not only about legislative improvements and material modifications, but also about political change that can be seen in connection with the adaptation of military division ’92. In my opinion, therefore, the constant statements of words on the suspension or abolition of the general obligation to do so or the introduction of a duty of service are not very helpful. I hope that these recent discussions will end again as suddenly as they have begun. Ladies and gentlemen! In this discussion, it should not be a question of a yes or no to the professional army, but above all of the impact on the overall structure of the military defence. In my view, a discussion which goes beyond this important aspect is unacceptable and therefore also unacceptable. Then: What extent should a professional army have, if not present, in order to ensure security in Austria? Or: What would be the cost of a professional force? All these questions are open. Whoever is seriously concerned about this issue – and I am doing so – must conclude: There is currently no alternative to comprehensive national defence, general military service and the military. We must therefore succeed in improving the overall structure on the basis of the existing military but also economic and social potential of the army. In particular, the personnel costs of around 63 per cent are burdening the defense budget and increasing the amount of investment required for the modernisation of the federal army. Any structural change must therefore be aimed at reducing staff costs. It must be our long-term objective to reduce staff expenditure. With the present amendment of the Wehrgesetz, the right path is taken to a new personnel planning, which we also agree with and on which we support Mr Bundesminister. Ladies and gentlemen! However, for those who intend to take a military career, a special commitment period will be created, which will be extended from six months to ten months. Those who still have selection procedures or training courses need not be taken early into a public service relationship. This will reduce administrative costs and reduce costs in planning areas. Reasonably, the money thus saved will be given to the time soldiers whose monthly premium will be increased to more than 7 000 S, and for those time soldiers who participate in training or selection courses for use as military persons on time and are therefore exposed to increased service use, this monthly premium will be significantly increased from the seventh month onwards. Ladies and gentlemen! This financial improvement of the time-solutes ultimately leads to a cost-neutrality, so de facto there is no financial savings yet, but the course is put in the right direction. We are concerned with ensuring that people who have decided to take up a military profession for a certain period of time are safeguarded accordingly. I therefore believe that we can accept this change in the law of the military. She's going in the right direction, as I said. Federal Minister! Therefore, as far as procurement is concerned, I would like to mention this again, in the future we want to ensure that there is more transparency, more comprehensibleness than in the past, so that not only the military aspect is in the foreground, but also the economic benefits, and that we can, wherever we have the opportunity to do so, make use of financial resources in order to invest these funds in the protection and security of the soldiers. This is a common concern that we are pursuing. I believe that this new law is going in the right direction, and we will also give it our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12071	I call Mr Scheibner. 6 minutes of voluntarily chosen speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12093	Thank you, Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, we are willing to fix errors and errors that happen in your resort and which are admitted. We will help with that, and we will agree with it. I hope that all the other errors that happen in your area – including politics – will be admitted, and we will try to find a solution together. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] We would have a lot to do, but there too we would be willing to help with a repair. But, Mr Federal Minister, how this repair takes place, for example with regard to the question of military pilots, this is already a bit worrying, namely, the way in which we deal with the constitutional provisions. It is clear that this retroactive entry into force must be regarded as a constitutional provision, but that the salary regime for the military pilots itself must be decided as a constitutional provision, which I consider to be at least worrying and doubtful, because this means for the future, Mr Federal Minister, that any change in the salary provision for the military pilots must go through again as a constitutional law with a two-thirds majority of this House, and I think this is an exaggeration. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I would have imagined that this would be dealt with more precisely and that the constitutional lawyers would also be advised. We shall make a corresponding amendment in this context. Secondly, Mr Maitz, it was interesting for me now to hear that the Draken is also being used for the UFO fight. But I'm right about the problem. Our Dragons are important, and our pilots are important – thank God we finally have them in sufficient number. I would only hope that, in addition to salary provisions, we could also give our Dragon pilots other prospects for their future activity and that we would be able to decide as soon as possible on the successor of the Dragon, otherwise we will soon have pilots, but no more aircraft. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It would be a shame if we had trained these pilots for the AUA – so important the AUA and the Lauda-Air – which will then be very happy to access them. On the question of the time soldiers. – There are also improvements here, as the first appointment of young cadre soldiers can now last four months longer. But, Minister of State, we believe that these four months are too short. You know very well what problems you have caused to stop taking up the troops: that many young Austrians who wish to stay with the German army need to be sent away the career of a professional officer, because they do not have the necessary posts at their disposal within the six-month period, and these time soldiers need to be sent home shortly after the six months. We believe – and this is also the opinion of the troop – that these four months are not enough to come at least over the financial period in order to achieve greater flexibility in this lack of posts of service which you have "ordered". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we will also put forward an amendment in this area, and I now have the honourful task of reading these two amendments. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to say a few words. [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that these amendments could correct the constitutional inconsistency on the one hand and, on the other, ensure a real substantial improvement in time soldiers and flexibility in the force on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12248	The two amendments, which the Scheibner has read, have been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, have been sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. Mr Hans Helmut Moseram is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to address Mr Gaál and ask him to speak again at the next item on the agenda. He has already referred to the question of the suspension of general military service in principle. He has somehow preceded the discussion or has tried to present at least a certain position of his group here. I think it is very positive if we could have a first more detailed discussion on this issue on the next point. For, Mr Gaál, as you have said, there is no alternative to comprehensive national defence, to general military service and to the military system, it is not true, and so the debate cannot be held. No one is questioning comprehensive national defence, no one is questioning the military system as such, but it is to be discussed whether the overall strategic conditions have changed in such a way that, as a consequence, the general obligation of military service can very well be suspended and replaced by a volunteer army. I would therefore ask you, Mr Gaál, that we then exchange our arguments at the next item on the agenda. Now to the actual item on the agenda, to the novelle to the Wehrgesetz. Federal Minister! In the last novel to the Wehrgesetz, a comprehensive, large novel was announced to the Wehrgesetz. Unfortunately, for my unexplained reasons – and you did not go any further into it in the committee – it did not come to this novel. The other thing is that we have to make a change in the House today, which de facto means improving a Murk, which has happened in the Ministry of Defence's legislative service. I cannot support the fact that, as Mr Maitz put it, there has been an editorial accident, for one thing is clear: It was always meant that this regime on military pilots was exclusively the military pilots of airspace surveillance. The fact that it is only possible to deal with these Dragon pilots is clear from the explanatory remarks and has also clearly emerged from the discussion both in the Committee and here in the House. I am afraid that this whole discussion and the novels will be unnecessary, because, Mr Federal Minister, if there is no decision on the follow-up of the Dragon on your part, then we will no longer have any more Draken pilots and then these legal provisions will no longer be necessary. Because one thing is obvious: It's a migration of our Dragon pilots into the house. Their contracts expire in one to two years, and the gentlemen will, as they do not know if there is indeed a follow-up for the Draken, turn their backs on the German army. That is why we did not need this innovation anymore, because so far you have remained guilty of bringing the decision on the successor of the Dragon. One thing, Mr. Federal Minister, is clear – and you are responsible for it: Since the beginning of 1997, the guarantee for the operation of the Dragons has expired, a guarantee on the part of the manufacturer is no longer given, and we are already flying against the statistics. I hope that there will not be an accident, but if an accident occurs, the political and military leadership of your resort will bear the responsibility for the damage it causes. Such a situation is not acceptable, and I therefore demand that a decision be taken immediately regarding the successor of the Dragon – or that you set up the flight operations. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] The second and last point: the Novelle of the Military Fee Act. Again, this is a re-improvement. Federal Minister! It was known to everyone, at least those who have many years of experience in the army, that the setting of the time soldiers is insufficient for six months, and even now only an insufficient extension will be decided again. Please go out to the commanders, go out to the troop! The spokespersons were all outside the team, and there we were told that under 12 months of age, a scheme would not be useful. There are at least twelve, if not 18 months necessary, to avoid the problems that arise on the one hand from a non-functioning personnel management within the department and on the other hand from the need for us to need a planning site on time for the military and to create a temporary buffer over the time soldiers. I do not think the extension by four months is sufficient. We will therefore also give our approval to the extension requested by Mr Scheibner. All in all, however, because it represents an improvement and because it makes a clarification on the other question, we also want to give this novelle our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12354	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Tychtl. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12375	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating two novels, the Wehrgesetz and once the Military Fees Act. My particular concern, of course, is also the extension of the service of the time soldier-short to a longer duration, but with a different focus, because I believe that we can always note that many causes of inconsistencies are in training. In principle, however, it is necessary not only to train properly those people who want to be trained as a military officer, but also to observe whether they bring all the skills to actually fill these posts. Indeed, those officers who come out of it will eventually be able to re-train, have the supervision there and must ensure that the ladies and gentlemen entrusted to them also receive the training they may need for survival. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I therefore believe that this is a very, very important point, a point which should not be underestimated. In particular, on the question of the Federal Heroic Complaints Committee, we are constantly experiencing that this is a central point, and I therefore attach such great importance to this point. I would therefore also like to express my support for the proposal set out in the Military Fee Act, which allows free travel. So far, it has been true that, if the commitment period was less than a year, free journeys on mass transport were possible. However, the change would have led to an inequality. If the commitment period was less than one year, the person concerned would have only four trips between the place of residence and the place of service. I believe that this is an important point in terms of equal opportunities and equal treatment. It is also my heart that we will continue to pay special attention to the time soldiers in the future, if they commit themselves longer, because I believe – and this has already been done by my previous speakers – that this is the starting point, Mr. Federal Minister, for future training as an officer, for the future existence of our soldiers and our army. We all have put on our flags that we want to give all our support to this area. We shall therefore vote in favour of these two proposals, and I hope that the necessary attention will continue to be paid to the soldiers and the army officers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12427	The Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven has now made a statement. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12448	Mr President. High house! Today's decision-making on airspace surveillance pilots is a clarification in an area of military priority – not only because military warfare has de facto become ineffective without adequate protection from the air, but also because air is the shortest warning period and thus the greatest surprise moment, and thirdly, the greatest and fastest technical progress is taking place in this area. There is no doubt that it is also a very important step towards the country's defence capacity by clarifying the rules as far as the operational team is concerned. Secondly, to decide. It is a regulation on time soldiers today. Only a few years ago, we made it possible for time soldiers to enter into a service relationship with the Republic of Austria that satisfied the security requirements of those concerned and the quality requirements of the Austrian federal army. At the same time, we have also adopted a regulation which provides for an increase in the level of training, and today's regulation provides for the possibility that, on the one hand, selection in this area will be even better, but on the other hand, the period will not be extended to such a extent that time soldiers will come in contact with basic defence workers and perform training tasks without adequate training – which is only due to enter service conditions. In that respect, I believe, this is an overall very important arrangement for the Austrian federal army, and I thank all those who have been constructively involved in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12483	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message. The debate is therefore closed. A conclusion of the report is not desirable. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1309 of the Supplements. The Scheibner and Comrades have tabled an amendment to this effect. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. I would draw attention to the fact that the draft law contains constitutional provisions. I therefore put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of Members required to vote in the Constitution. The Scheibner and Comrades have tabled an amendment to paragraphs 3 and 6. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on paragraphs 3 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and I expressly note that the two-thirds quorum required by the Constitution is given. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – The majority of the vote will be taken. Mostly adopted, even if the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are present. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. The adoption is carried out unanimously, with the two-thirds quorum, which is, of course, also required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1310 of the Supplements. Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Scheibner and Comrades have tabled an amendment to paragraphs 2 and 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of obeisance. . This draft law has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. Finally, we are still voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted on. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This part is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who agrees to this in third reading, I ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 17. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on Amendment 113/A (E) by Mr Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades on the suspension of general military service (1311 of the supplements) 18. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on Amendment 160/A (E) by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the increase in the national defence budget in the XX. GP at comparable European level (1313 of Supplements) 19. Point Report by the National Defense Committee on Amendment No 593/A (E) by Mr Herbert Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the maintenance of the Austrian army's willingness to use in its military structure (1312 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on the petition No. 15 on "Priority for Austria's security through an Austrian Security Doctor and the adaptation of the National Defence Plan 85 (LVP 85)", presented by Mr Herbert Scheibner (1314 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12660	We now come to points 17 to 20 of the agenda. The debate will be held under one. Oral reporting has not been required. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing very often fundamental issues of security policy in this House. Today, we finally have the opportunity – due to some opposition proposals and the petition already mentioned – to discuss also a little about the problems of the German army, which are almost even more serious than the shortcomings in security policy, one which is quite complementary or conditional on the other. Mr. Minister of Defence, first of all on our request for an increase in the national defence budget. This was unfortunately rejected by the coalition in the Committee. I do not fully understand this, because again and again – even yesterday from this speaker's desk – we are told that the German army has too little money and that budgetary resources must also be made available for proper national defence. I also hear from the Social Democrats again and again that at least 1% of gross domestic product should be available for national defence in the future. In reality, you decided a few weeks ago on the 1999 budget, in which Austria's final lighting position in Europe is again cemented with a share of less than 0.8% of gross domestic product. You, Mr Federal Minister, know very well that this small budget does not even maintain an emergency operation through our national defence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You too know very well that it is negligent with this budget – if not deliberately dangerous – to send our soldiers into a state of emergency. This negligence has now been noted every day, for example with the infrastructure, Mr. Federal Minister. We warned you! We have not even warned you, but several times that it is dangerous to send the soldiers into a service with this device. Unfortunately, it was only recently to complain again of a dead person in the helicopter crash, in which the suspect moments go very strongly to the fact that this was a material mistake – a material error in a device that is 30 years old, Minister of Defense! Our helicopters, our interceptors, our shooters: All this has museum value soon! They're 30 years old or more, and it's irresponsible to let our soldiers work with this device. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! We have already told you: By your failure in recent years to achieve a rapid re-purchase, you are partly responsible for all the things that happen here. Unfortunately, we already have to complain to the first dead. Also at the PANDUR and ULAN – everywhere! – it can be seen that nothing is going on, although in part the procurement procedures have already been decided here. In the past, it was not even possible to raise the costs incurred by the German army through the assistance missions on the border of Burgenland and by the abundance of foreign operations that you have decided in recent months and years to pay in addition to the national defence budget. You yourself have repeatedly said that this is not necessary, because this is already taken into account in the annual budget negotiations. – But suddenly it is to be heard that, step-by-step, such initiatives should be set up that various foreign operations – including in Bosnia – should be additional to the teaching process from next year. I am pleased, Minister of State, that you – unfortunately very late! – at least once from the principle have responded to our demand. However, I am less pleased with the cost calculation that you base on these costs, because 200 million schilling for the UN mission "Minurso" and for Bosnia's use cannot really be the actual cost of your place of business. The cost of assistance has also not even been calculated, let alone the budget. Minister of the Interior Schlögl also demanded 1 billion Schilling when it came to extending the border. - And he got it. But you didn't get anything because you didn't want anything. This is the problem, Mr Minister of Defence, that you do not even trust yourself in negotiations with your coalition partner, let alone that you can prevail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why it would be useful to support this request. On the question of the militia: You have again established a massive reduction in the military component of our army due to your military division-new/new. We hope – and we want to achieve this with this request – that we also take into account the quality of the military soldiers in the planning of personnel, and that, if we have already adopted many thousands of military soldiers who serve in their spare time for the defence of the state, and if we already have to say goodbye, at least in all honors, we will adopt them – and not as we did in the last military reform, when we announced an appointment to which they had to deliver their equipment. The whole thing was also accompanied by an appeal, which happens to them if they do not comply with this date. I believe that we cannot deal with people who are in the service of our national defence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! On the petition that I think is useful and that it is absolutely necessary: I would like to suggest that we discuss the Rules of Procedure which make it necessary to report, when a committee of experts is dealing with such a petition, only that they have just been negotiated but cannot take real action. If we are committed to developing the instruments of direct democracy, it should also be our concern to put in place concrete measures here too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this sense: It is a useful request in this petition that the national defence plan, which dates back to the 1970s, should be included in a completely different structure, which is discussed here in Parliament and which creates a new defence doctrine. And because of this defence doctrine one should then put the appropriate measures for the German army – and not as you do: that one puts a military division into the empty space so to speak, although one has no money for implementation, and only later, sometime later, will discuss when an option report finally comes, when finally a principle decision is made in the security policy. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you will at least agree to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12813	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Murauer has now come to speak. Mr deputies, you have indicated a five-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12840	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Scheibner, it would, of course, be lucrative to agree and say: more money for all Ministries, more money, of course, for the Ministry of Defence. That would be nice, and I hope that we will achieve this soon. But you also know that we have savings budgets! Always stand out here and just say: We need more money, then we can do everything! – We can never do anything – with this simple formula it really does not work, colleague Scheibner! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner:...but our people die!]] I would now like to deal with the abolition or suspension of the general military obligation, for which there is a motion for a resolution by Mr Helmut Moser. Mr Moser! Austria, as we both know, has only observer status in the WEU; that is a fact. We both sat in the last row and watched! God, I'm sorry! We don't even have an option report on NATO. So: The occasion as such is not given. On the question of whether you can return from a professional army to the general military service as easily as you can also carry out in your application: I doubt that very much; I really question that very much. But what I do not doubt, and what I stress, is that there is a great deal of discussion about general military service or professional army, that we should consider the consequences of both. It should also be considered in what direction the Austrian federal army should go in which direction our national defense should go. Of course, this discussion is also being held by us in the Austrian People's Party; there are also prominent votes. This is how our clubman spoke and said: If Austria is NATO- if it is WEU member, then we also have to discuss it. – We know that there is no ban on thinking, as it seems to be common in other parties – I mean the Freedom Party in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: It's a huge ban on thinking!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to adapt the country's defence permanently and discuss whether our national defence still meets the general conditions. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are jointly responsible to the dead through this device!]] In principle, let me say that national defence is a matter for all Austrians and not just certain professional groups. I should also like to quote Ambassador Dr. Steiner, who is behind this opinion, behind this mission. I do not want to compare national defence and federal army with other services that we now want to or need to provide in our society, but not necessarily a professional force. The fact is that six out of ten full members of the WEU recruit their soldiers on the basis of the general military service and therefore, Mr Moser, is not under any obligation to serve as a professional force – also not as a member of the WEU or NATO. We are, of course, discussing the new division of the army – the new division of the army and adaptation, Mr Scheibner. Even if this is repeatedly questioned or miscredited: The Federal Government needs a constant orientation according to the circumstances, and there is still a need to re-adapt the army division. I want to know what you'd say if it wasn't adapted. The state defense and the federal army are oriented according to the threat images. Of course, we also discuss the way from space defense to border control, the mobile strengths, modern weapons systems and high-tech in the German army. That there is a need to have highly qualified staff in the same strength is a matter of course. This will have to be seen in the future, because only through the structural adjustment of military division will professional, mobile forces also be taken into account. I would like to point this out and fix it. I do not want to discuss – and should we – the military system, because without militia there is no national defense. This has been fixed and established here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we have a discussion on the general obligation of military service or the professional army, we should also consider and discuss the issue of civil service without a general obligation. We should use the costs and be clear that other European countries that have passed over to the professional army have experienced a cost explosion. I only remember Belgium and Spain, which have incurred enormous costs and are still emerging. In this context, I should also like to discuss the ageing effect. The assistance of the Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer be possible in the form we are used to. The last disasters in the Styria and Lower Austria have proved that our federal army has returned to its mission, where others can no longer be able to do so and help. These assistants, I think, would not be feasible if we had a professional force. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion. General A. D. Helge Hansen, former NATO commander-in-chief in Central Europe, said: The defense soldier is undoubtedly not an expedition soldier, but the ideal national defender. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only join him. The position of the EIA is that it is not currently a matter of thinking about a professional army or introducing it in the foreseeable future. Last sentence: I would like to thank Mr Steyr for not closing the Trollmann-Kaserne in Steyr.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12935	Mr Hans Helmut Moserzu is now speaking. Do you want a voluntary time limit? - 10 minutes. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: 10 minutes!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e12984	It's an extensive topic! – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Federal Minister! High house! There are four items on the agenda which are now being discussed under one. There is a lot to be said about the individual points, but I would first like to limit myself to two areas. One is the request made by Mr Scheibner in connection with the budgetary donation for the German army. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are two souls living in my chest: On the one hand, as an officer and member of the German army, I know that a modern army cannot be built up by the existing budgetary means, that it is not possible to perform a proper service, and that, in particular, the military divisions which have been decided so far under the direction of Minister Fassleven – the military division of 1992 as well as the current army division – cannot be implemented accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious and is constantly criticized by the army members that there is not enough financial resources at their disposal. I can only remind you of the implementation of the Mech package. Federal Minister! To date, this implementation has not taken place, although the Council of State Defense has already given the green light to it in December 1996 and we have been given the promise that it will come to full implementation within the term of the year or perhaps in a somewhat longer period of time – it may take some month or so. That hasn't happened yet. It is open to the question of the modernisation of helicopters and transport aircraft. We have outdated aircraft. Clear arms policy objectives have been set for the implementation of the military division, including improving the air mobility of the German army, both in 1992 and in the current military division. It has even been decided an air-moving infantry brigade, but it lacks the necessary transport space. It is also missing because the procurement is not really secure. I regret that the use of outdated equipment has now resulted in a helicopter crash and we already have a dead person to complain about. I say it again, Minister of State: As the political leader of the department, as well as the chief of the army, they bear the responsibility for continuing to operate old-fashioned equipment and in this context for injuries, deaths and damage to property, in whatever way. That is what I would like to point out here in the National Council. [[Abg. Meisinger: Bergepanzer!]] We have a problem with the engineization of the army. We know that the fleet is about to collapse. It has been stated in the state report that, in the near future, the 1,000 trucks will have to be purchased. There are no financial conditions for this. This also applies to the pioneer equipment, the man equipment – I could continue this list at any time. - That's the one side. The other side is the one, Mr Federal Minister, that a reform of the German army - "So much money, so much army" - has been decided, under the premise that there will not be an increase in the defence budget in the next few years. That was the premise for this military reform, and the Federal Government has agreed on it. That is why I must assume that the military division proposed by the Ministry of Defence, which has now been decided in the Council of Ministers, has been recommended by the Council of State Defense, and I voted against, as has Mr Scheibner, with which existing money can be implemented and implemented. That means you don't need any more money! It is therefore not really logical to demand an increase in the defence budget – as Mr Scheibner does – because not even the politically responsible Minister of Defence himself wants more money and because the reform steps he sets have been implemented and determined accordingly under this premise. [[Abg. Young: That's why he's called "Werner with the empty bag"!]] This means that there is no additional need, and therefore I cannot give my consent to Mr Scheibner's request. In connection with the reform of the army, Mr. Federal Minister: I regret that this military reform has been decided without making the necessary pre-decisions on security policy, without the people concerned having been involved accordingly, or having dealt with other ideas and other ideas, with the result that we have a military reform which is, in principle, not feasible and feasible, a military reform which has not been approved internally, but has only caused great frustration, because essentially the force will be smashed and the military bureaucracy remains. – Minister of State! This is a wrong way that is neither financially nor supported accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point I would like to make briefly today, because the Federal Minister will not be present tomorrow at the decision-making process on an amendment to the Civil Service Law. With tomorrow's novel to the Civil Service Law, a new top-level division of the German army is also defined, Minister of State! With this new top-level division of the federal army, exactly what I said earlier: The effective commanders in the area of the force are being smashed, the military bureaucracy is being built up. I would ask you to inform us today about what the amendment of the Civil Service Law really means. I should like to quote from the explanatory notes: There's a chief of staff at the Federal Minister. This head of staff of the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State is particularly associated with some organizational units. In order to effectively carry out and coordinate these tasks, the Chief of Staff of the Federal Minister shall have access to the overall organisation of the Federal Army, both in the central office and in the secondary area. [[Abg. Young: The Chief of General Staff will be introduced, and the SPÖ will agree!]] It is organized outside and, by its speciality, identical in addition to the sections. This means that an additional section will be created. The head of staff of the Federal Minister is therefore also responsible for coordination between the sections. [[Abg. Young: That's where the classic Chief of Staff is made!]] Federal Minister! That's just the classic Chief of Staff. If you want the classic Chief of Staff, tell me here! Make a clear, new top division of the federal army! If you do not agree with the management of the current General Force Inspector – for whatever reason – then tell us and draw the necessary human consequences from it. But quietly and secretly to complete the restructuring of the top-level division, I would like to remember with all my determination! I think that the top-level division, which comes out of it, is not even the optimal top-level division for the small Austrian federal army. But I can ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to answer us here and today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to the point of suspending the general obligation and my request. Mr Murauer and Mr Gaál. It is not about discussing whether we want to introduce a professional force, but about whether the conditions for suspending the general obligation to do so are necessary. [[Abg. Murauer: What is the consequence of this?]] Mr Murauer! I must now tell you that the question of the military system is a question of the form of recruitment. It is to be distinguished whether a forced recruitment takes place – in brackets: general military service – or whether recruitment is carried out on the basis of voluntaryity. Forced recruitment due to the general obligation of military service is justified and useful if there is a comprehensive threat to the social system and therefore, with regard to Austria, every Austrian citizen is invited to make his contribution, including... [[Abg. Murauer: This is your interpretation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: This is your theory!]] No, that's not my theory, Mr. Colleague, that's the basic idea of general military service! Read it, learn Austrian military history, then you will also know that the basic idea of general military duty is rooted in the idea of "liver en mass", in the idea that every citizen of the revolution is called to defend the successes and results of the revolution as well. That is the basic idea of compulsory military service, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Murauer: You also allow the view beyond the borders to include the experiences from there!]] Thus, it is about protecting and preserving the social system through the mobilization of all forces – that is, also through the forced recruitment to military service. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! These conditions have not been met at the latest since political development in 1989 and thereafter. We no longer have a comprehensive, comprehensive threat to our society system. We don't have a military threat anymore. As a member of the Defence Committee, Mr Murauer also knows the analyses of the Ministry of Defence, which clearly show that this threat is no longer present. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a dangerous argument!]] There is therefore the possibility of rethinking the system from the principle and introducing a new military system accordingly. It is only right that this possibility exists if... [[Abg. Murauer: This is the liberal approach! The one of the ÖVP is another!]] This is our liberal approach! That is why we want to discuss it. In particular, this possibility exists if we are also embedded in a European, international security system. [[Abg. Murauer: That means what?]] Our proposal therefore provides that, with the accession to the Western European Union, we should also make use of the possibility of rethinking the military system and changing the military system so that the general obligation of military service is suspended and replaced by a voluntary system. [[Abg. Murauer: What does it mean to have this security system?]] Mr Murauer! The volunteer system also knows the militia, because no working military system can give up on the militia. Each working military system knows the professional framework, and everyone knows the military share. In the interaction of these two components, a new military system for Austria will also be established. That is, in the volunteer army, as we see it, there will also be a volunteer military. Therefore, everything will have to be systematically supported and developed in the future, as an important step in a new, modern military system. I come to the conclusion because my time is over and I no longer have any additional speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl:... has expired!]] I am sorry, but I assume that we can continue to discuss this in the future. I think that there are conditions for rethinking our existing military system accordingly, and that we can also change our military system with a view to a modern military system to which the trend in Europe is going: that is to be voluntary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13212	Mrs Hagenhofer is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13233	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Moser, I would like to refer to the resolution tabled by the Liberal Forum, with a view to providing sufficient pension provision for Austrian soldiers. You have rightly argued in your introductory statement that Austria has been involved in the posting and provision of troops for the United Nations since 1960. They have also pointed out – and I believe this is the special part of this action – that the UN Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the Nobel Peace Prize in 1988. I think that's a special award on the one hand. On the other hand, however, it is also a special achievement of the soldiers who are committed to maintaining world peace. Your application for pension insurance has two main lines: on the one hand, the basic line of access to our pension right, which depends on months of contribution, on the other. Your references to the replacement times – the right currently in force for extraordinary presence services or voluntary arms exercises and so on – that you cite. Mr Moser! My group stands for this situation and, in principle, for your request. When we assume that we have these replacement times in contribution months... [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Colleagues! This request is not on the agenda!]] Of course he is involved! [[Abg. Scheibner: Although he was in committee, he is not on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But that doesn't matter! It's not so bad to treat him anyway!]] [[Further calls.]] All right, we'll talk about it anyway. I am very grateful that we can talk about it because it is an essential issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only if you vote wrong...!]] No, we certainly don't vote "wrong". In our view, the issue is essential in all cases, insofar as, when we talk about it, we have to count replacement times as contribution times in principle, and then we have to assume that it is not just about replacement times in the field of military service. We will of course also have to discuss all other replacement times – the replacement times for children's education, the replacement periods of unemployment, the replacement times of the search for work. Federal Minister! For this reason, we would like to propose to consider whether these foreign operations could not possibly be handled in the context of service relations. Because then contributions would have to be paid, and then these soldiers would also be covered by pension law accordingly. We would also like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to examine in detail the overall problem on the basis of this request, even if it is not for negotiation, and to provide us with solutions, especially in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13315	Mr Wabl is now taking the floor. [[Abg. Murauer: Leave pain!]] 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13344	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the positive introductions. [[Abg. Smolle: You didn't even serve in the army! You don't know anything about the Federal Lord!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Smolle, a very, very valued minority representative, seems to believe that he must be aware of this by any extremely embarrassing remarks. [[Abg. Murauer: He knows! He knows what's going on!]] I think it's very inappropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser's proposal – he is not here now... [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Is he a "white vintage"? - He's not that old?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Or was he impossible?]] No, no, ladies and gentlemen, Smolle was even recruited for the army intelligence service. It is not true that he would be unsuitable for military tasks. You believed, in the Yugoslav region... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I wouldn't do such a joke!]] That's not a joke. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who has been recruited?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Wabl is not kidding!]] Well, that's what my liaisons found out! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He has connections!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: His intelligence service was that!]] [[Further calls.]] But I don't want to deal with that now. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that would be interesting: Smolle...?]] Mr Moser has made a request for a very contrary motive: to rethink and abolish the general obligation to do so, at least now. Ladies and gentlemen! We should, and have done this in part in the National Defence Committee, discuss very openly whether the Institute of General Obligations is still up-to-date. Mr Maitz! They are a strict advocate of general military service. Mr Khol sees this a little different. I don't know how the Federal Minister sees this. I believe that in the future we will have a mixing system from officials... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We already have!]] We will have a relatively large part as a professional force, as is already the case, and the additional need will be made by voluntary military. I believe that the future has and makes sense in a society that basically promotes a part-time process in almost all areas of life. There are only a few areas in which this does not happen, including the budget area. In this respect, there are efforts by individual political groups to share the work, because it seems to be so reasonable. By the way, I am also a strict opponent of such efforts. But I think it unbearable that in a country like Austria – in fact, I consider it intolerable in every country in this world – people from a certain age are naturally being educated or educated to kill other people – or positively expressed: that they can protect their country or defend their families. [[Abg. Murauer: Positive is: can protect!]] I think that this is a procedure which is not wise, apart from the fact that it is an expression for every 18 years, that he is forced to spend a certain amount of time in a training system that is anything but democratic. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a strange excuse!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have other motives, but Mr Moser has rightly referred to this issue, and I think that we should be open to discussion about it. Mr Gaál! I know you're saying there's no alternative. I have a little schizophrenic discussion from your side – forgive me for this expression. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Split!]] This morning we heard the speech of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who proclaimed something but with all the clarity for NATO accession. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Very good speech!]] Mr Gaál! However, they do not seem to have taken place on the part of the Socialist Group. They put their heads in the socially democratic grievanced sand. Mr Cap is thinking about how to make NATO its own comrade even more tasty. But we should discuss openly what are the advantages and disadvantages of this kind of alliances. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a commitment in this regard. I must say that the words that the President of the Federal Republic has re-elected in connection with neutrality today, when he said that it had to develop towards solidarity, actually represent one for me - I have already made this clear and expressed - of the previous role of Austria. Federal Minister! You will rightfully give me that Austria has never understood its neutrality as a sideline, but always as an expression of a particular kind of solidarity that does not exist in a plumper of arms brotherhood, as you clearly say, Mr Maitz. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] [[Call the ÖVP: And defend these!]] That's the problem! The question of neutrality has always been understood in Austria in solidarity, by the entire series of statesmen, also by the ÖVP. I do not understand, therefore, how it is that a Federal President speaks the word in such a one-sided way – in order not to use a sharper word – of certain social interests by reducing the question of neutrality to a side-by-side stand, to a side-by-side look or to a treadboard ride, as some EIA politicians have said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] Mr Gaál! Look at what will be presented in the main committee tomorrow by Mr Fassleven. [[Abg. Scheibner: Already done, Mr. Wabl!]] - Already done today? - Then I'm at least half a day back. [[Call the ÖVP: How often!]] – I am happy to let that happen, because if I think about the debate between the Social Democrats and you, I really wonder if this has been voted on and adopted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz, the Waffen Brotherhood you are promoting is the oldest model at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This request – and this is also a debate here, ladies and gentlemen – which the "comradeship alliance" has brought in in the form of petitions and has transported Mr Scheibner, in which you again demand these "moderate" sums for a military apparatus, which I believe is a classically obscene one... [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Dr Maitz]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You are a classic demagogue!]] Mr Maitz! I have always listened with aversion when everything in the Soviet Union at that time has been called "peace organization": [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP]] Every march of the army was sold as a peace propaganda march. You think if you simply abuse the terms, then you are on the right track! Mr Maitz! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Look at Bosnia!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's huge!]] Mr Murauer! Look... [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Maitz) What about the Turks?]] [[Violent counter-calls at the ÖVP.]] They are fighting arm in arms with Turkish army members threatening to exterminate a whole people! This is your form of peacekeeping! You believe... – But of course! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Where are your critical comments on Turkey, Mr Maitz? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The comparison of Austrian security policy with that of the Soviet Union is already great!]] Where are they? [[Calls and counter-calls between Dr Maitz and Dr Petrovic.]] The Foreign Minister announced yesterday that there had not been a single shot within the EU. He has not spoken of the state of war in Ireland, which has fortunately been disintegrated by the last negotiations, but which unfortunately threatens to recirculate. He has not talked about what incredible conflicts there have been in Spain lately. Mr Maitz! You are confusing a few things, and I ask you to think about what They are constantly propagating in association with the liberals, namely a massive improvement in the budgetary situation in the military field to up to 140 billion schilling... [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't want to!]] – You want to say, only the Social Democrats say: We don't have any money for that! [[Abg. Scheibner: A total nonsense!]] Mr Scheibner, you know that very well. [[Abg. Scheibner: He does not even ask, the Minister!]] These are the internal papers; he has already hidden and hidden his secret wishes. If Mr. Fassl evening is sitting at home with his wife, he probably thinks often when he's counting this way... [[Call to the ÖVP: There he will probably do something different! He won't count tanks!]] – He doesn't count tanks, but he talks with his wife. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maitz. You should not be so upset about these things. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: There are limits!]] - Yeah, I think so. If you constantly confuse solidarity with arms brotherhood, if you confuse uplifting in Austria with comprehensive national defence, if you confuse peace with fighting efforts, then unfortunately I have to deal critically with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Who made peace in Bosnia?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who supported the "ethnic cleansing"?]] Mr Maitz! You thanked yourself here today for taking part in the trip to NATO headquarters. [[Calls and counter-calls between Dr Maitz and Dr Petrovic.]] I would like to thank you if you were to travel with the same seriousness and with the same commitment with your colleagues to Ankara and make it clear to the military headquarters there that it is genocide, what is happening there, and what you intend to do about your neutral Austrian solidarity. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] That is what you should do, and I would like to thank you and also Mr Fassleven. Mr Maitz! They say goodbye to history, they distance themselves from Austrian history, which since 1945 has always been in solidarity with those who have been oppressed, who have been in danger, with Austrian politicians and the Austrian population never turned away. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: peacekeeping, that doesn't matter?]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: UN missions of Austrian soldiers do not count anything?]] You will not succeed in relinquishing the Austrian history of the Second Republic as a riding and unolidaric behavior. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's not what anyone says!]] But hopefully the Social Democrats will be – and hopefully also the population in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13900	It has now come forward to speak to Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13921	Mr President. High house! I would like to make the following brief statement on the issues discussed in the Committee, which have been particularly concerned with the military organization, but also with the upgrading of the system. The question of the army organization has always been a question for me, for which there must be no ideological scams. For me, the military efficiency, cost and political feasibility of a system have always been crucial. I have never left a doubt that a system change in Austria needs a fundamental decision on the integration of Austria into a security organization, such as NATO or WEU, in order to be discussed seriously and responsibly. I have never left any doubt that I consider this debate and a decision in this direction necessary. Secondly, The question was raised by the Chief of Staff. This is the illustration of the current situation. There is no doubt that the Chief General of the General Force Inspector is responsible for planning, coordinating and inspecting the entire military area and will continue to exercise it in the future. The third area concerns equipment. We have undoubtedly achieved significant improvements in recent years: more than quadruple the combat power of artillery, the introduction of modern weapons systems. I'm thinking of ground-ground arms, ground-air arms and air-air steering weapons. With the introduction of PANDUR, LEO and JAGUAR, there was a significant strengthening in the Mech area. Similarly, the leadership was increased by an enormous expansion of the computer system. Of course, there can be no doubt that precisely these facts show that there was an enormous need for recovery and that there is still a need to catch up, which is not to be underestimated. It will be our task to jointly reduce this need for recovery over the next few years. – I thank you in advance for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13964	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e13994	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to give a 'arms' speech, but I would like to make a few comments on the request of the motion for a resolution 15, which calls for an adjustment to the 1985 national defence plan. This national defence plan sets out objectives for comprehensive national defence, but also measures to achieve it. Many statements will continue to be valid: the statements on civil defence, on the intellectual defence of the country, partly probably also on the economic defence of the country. This is certainly no longer the case in the area of military defence. Fortunately, because of the collapse of communism and the resolution of the Warsaw Pact, the threat to the Republic of Austria has changed considerably; the EU's security policy has also developed in this context. It is true that there is currently no uniform document on the Security Doctor on the new Austrian defense. However, there is no doubt that we have supported all the safety efforts at European and international level and that we have created the appropriate legal framework for this. We have passed the law on cooperation and solidarity for sending troops abroad, we have ratified the Treaty of Amsterdam and we can now take part in peace-making actions. We are contributing within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, within the framework of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I should like to expressly point out the efforts and the use of our Foreign Minister's bowl in Kosovo, where he has been trying to find a solution in recent days to prevent further bloodshed. Finally, due to a situation assessment by the Austrian Federal Government in 1992 the military division was introduced. The structural adjustment in 1998 tried to align the German army to the new situation. Therefore, before a new Austrian defence plan can be drawn up, politics is needed. We have the question to answer: How is Austria's security policy going on? What way does Austria want to go? [[Abg. Scheibner: We've been waiting for that for years!]] . We from the Austrian People's Party have put our proposals on the table, our option report is in the form of a request here in the house. Our proposals to enter into an intensive dialogue with the WEU and NATO in order to estimate the possibilities of a contribution to an alliance situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This requires a common procedure, and we are ready to do so. However, this requires an honest and serious discussion of the content: How can we achieve the greatest possible security for our population? – Only when this question has been answered can we work out details and put them together in a new national defence plan.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14044	The next speaker is Mr Jung. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14065	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagenhofer's remarks were very interesting and superior, even if they did not fit directly to the item on the agenda. One will have to talk about these things. However, I would also like to remind colleagues from SPÖ that: It can happen to anyone that he speaks to something that is not on the agenda. But think about what coffins would have broken out if this had happened to a liberal! [[Congratulations on the liberals and reputation:Yes! That's how it's done.]] Now to you, Minister of State. Even if it doesn't always seem to be, I have respect for your military and security knowledge and your knowledge in this sector. The problem is the lack of money and the lack of enforceability of you and your group within the coalition, which leads to such conditions and accidents as the recent helicopter crash. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It could have been worse! One of my vintage comrades died in this helicopter. Two fellow pilots left shortly before, otherwise it would have been three dead. But the fault lies not only with the Minister alone, but also with this House, with you from the great coalition, ladies and gentlemen. They order these pilots to fly rescue operations, to fly border security operations. However, the corresponding device and equipment do not give them. That's where you buy dead people. No one can take this accusation from you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We'll keep it to you. I hope there won't be any more such tragic events. But I fear that this will be the case. Now to Mr Murauer, who spoke about the ban on thinking at FPÖ. Do you know where there really is a ban on thinking? – In the Federal Lord! I have here an order from the General Force Inspector to the commanders and to the heads of the service – not to subordinated soldiers – in which we are dealing with military division, national defence plan and similar matters that have a significant impact on the future of the army and the commanders. There's a ban on thinking. The GTI shall address the Commanders and the Head of Service. I quote: With the start of the one and a half-year period ahead of us, there has not already been a reflection process on how to proceed afterwards. - It's not supposed to be introduced yet! – It is not the time for speculation about what should come after. Neither has the Federal Minister the General Force Inspector with such tasks – think! – In charge of this, I still have orders in this regard. - Quote. So a ban on thinking for the leading officers in the federal army: just don't think what could come out of it! Ladies and gentlemen! This reminds me very much of a saying I once learned in my school years: One of them asks: What's going on after that? Is it right?, and so the free man differs from the servant. Minister! Do you want servants or do you want thinking officers? If you want to do the latter, then this order of the General Force Inspector must be taken back. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or is it really true that he is in the course of the new structure... – Unfortunately, I have no time for you. [[Abg. Smolle: Mr. Jung! How do you come to this order?]] I don't think it's worth responding to your objections. [[Abg. Smolle: Can you explain this to us for a moment?]] Minister! Is there nothing more to talk about by the general police inspector in the federal army? Is that perhaps the reason why he's not here today? Is he really already disassembled by the future Chief of General of the Federal Government, that is, your current chief of cabinets? [[Abg. Smolle: Are you a commander?]] This is a really interesting question, because when you read it, you can see that it is clearly a chief of general staff. That's where you made the SPÖ clear and skillfully over-oiled. My congratulation! [[Abg. Smolle: How do you get the order?]] The question is: Was there perhaps a counter-business – defence office or anything? We will see that in the near future, we will observe it closely. Only: The order of Mr. General Force Inspector, Mr. Minister, is a shame to the German army. He'll be taken back on the spot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where do you get the order?]] – He's from the release sheet, he's being announced everywhere. You can have it if you want. He's not from the Army News Office.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14192	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased to be able to speak to you, as a member of a group, in which there is no ban on thinking, and which is also permitted to spend enough time in order to have a discussion with each of you. This discussion is necessary. We have seen today how broad the spectrum of opinions in our Republic is, and these opinions must be taken seriously and discussed. As a result of the agenda, the necessary time will certainly not be available today. I must therefore also confine myself to some details. To the Liberal Forum. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: That's us!]] Mr Moser! [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Here!]] To the WEU!, this parole is not new, nor are the demands for the suspension of compulsory military service and the volunteer army. These are keywords, but I would have liked to know how this should work. A volunteer army will only be able to cope with a financial incentive that is not insignificant, and that would probably be the cost of a professional army. So why the volunteer? I don't think you're imagining a volunteer army on the base as we're trying it now. The attitude: Whether I will come to service tomorrow or not, is my case!, the national defense and the whole army would not be of good service. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: That's not what we want!]] In addition, I am surprised that you believe in the voluntary increase in professionalism. So I don't see the connection in any way. Further discussions will take place. [[Abg. Scheibner: A volunteer is more motivated!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Interesting are also the demands of the liberals regarding financing. Of course, the Social Democrats are also in favour of "trapping up" 1 percent more for the German army. [[Demonstrative applause by MEPs Scheibner and Jung.]] This demand is not new, but the coalition has come to know that every ministry has to take back claims because they are currently not eligible for funding, and also the federal army. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why can this be the castle?]] Mr Scheibner! I hope you're going to shout that way. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm not yelling!]] The funding proposal you are bringing and which is printed in the report is worth reading: "The additional funds for the national defence budget could be transferred in addition to transfers of subsidies to deficient businesses, which are unexplained in the federal ownership, for example through the proceeds of sales of properties and barracks. ..." – Inexplicably deficient holdings, which are in the federal possession! One paragraph higher can be read between the lines, which the colleague Scheibner means: It compares the costs for the infrastructure of the ÖBB: 32.05 billion schilling. Is that what it is? We take away the money from the Bundesbahnen and finance the tanks with it? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But you said that!]] We close a hole and open the other hole – that is the financing proposal of the Freedom Party! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the liberals: But you have read wrong between the lines!]] It is also the NATO debate. It was clear that this debate will not take place without NATO debate. We are going to hold this NATO debate, we will do so without any shambles and with all the arguments. Interesting were also the short arguments that Mr Tychtl brought home from this visit. He said no one should imagine there was a NATO without WEU or a WEU without NATO. [[Call to the ÖVP: But this is a difficult combination, WEU without NATO!]] No one can imagine that we can choose the duty of assistance! The first time maybe, the second time maybe, but then not anymore, then we will be very clearly reminded of our duties. And we should think about it! I think it is good that the Austrian Federal Government, the Austrian Parliament reserves the right to decide where soldiers are sent. It was good to send our soldiers abroad, but it was equally good not to send our soldiers to Somalia – a wise decision that the government has made. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Although Mr Maitz repeatedly tells me that this is no longer an issue, we will have to discuss how nuclear weapons look. Mr Maitz! You have always said in the discussions: It is all regulated, only the law in constitutional order we do not sign! – Maybe not everything is regulated. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not believe that the option report will still be presented to the House during this legislative period, but I do believe that we will be dealing with the issue of neutrality, which still has a value for me – and I am not the only one in Austria, there are a lot of Austrians who see it that way – in the 1999 election advertising.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14391	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now please let Members of the Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl, who wants to come out with 4 minutes of speech! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14413	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not like the election announcement by Mr Kummerer and I would like to repeat to colleagues Murauer, who spoke here of bans of thought: Thoughts are obviously free, but what has not lost anything here is incompetence. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In debates about the state defense, friends of the German army always speak. The security of our home and the well-being of our soldiers is certainly at our heart. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say the following about the statements made by Mr President-in-Office of the Council during his fishing visit today. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was a good speech!]] With all the binding in regard to the concern for the army, there is a gap between speaking and acting, of reality. Federal Minister! I have the "Milizinfo" here, in which you can find the breakdown, and it stands for example at the 7. Jägerbrigade: air-moving with mass. – Mr Minister, this is an illusion! Of course, air mobility is not even given at least. The tragic events of the last few days show particularly that the device really has to stay on the ground, simply because it is dangerous to put an outdated device into operation. Mr. Minister! At one of the soldiers' talks here in the house – Mr Gaál was there – we heard the help cry of the members of a helicopter unit who asked very much that one help with the re-purchasing because they simply see in what condition the device is in. But also the militia, especially the maintenance of the military structure, is very worrying. We need a strong cadre military – without militia, the successful foreign operations are not to be carried out either. We see only from your answer that in the end only more than 25 percent of those responsible for military service come to an order and that, due to the immense effort – eight months spent as system owners – only a few people remain for the militia or for the order. It is recognized that the military structure is also very vulnerable. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! We have seen today how the Guard has endeavored honestly to complete a flawless appearance. But not enough to have the Guard marched up and down the Heroes Square. There must be a powerful organization behind that – the Federal Government – and you really need action.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14487	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl is provided with sufficient support in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Sauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14512	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at the statements made by Mr Wabl. He said the Austrian soldiers would be trained to kill people. He then restricted this and meant to defend the country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our Austrian soldiers are well trained to deal with the weapon. But they are also trained to help people in need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: He said that too!]] This is particularly mentioned in an article of the newspaper of the Austrian Civil Protection Association "Magazine for Civil and Civil Protection". There it says: Federal soldiers made 800 000 liters of water drinkable. The professionals in flood use. Civil protection, as it can hardly be practised near to life and as human beings. During the flood disaster in Poland in the summer of 1997, the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army made more than 800 000 liters of water drinkable again. Here were real professionals at work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Such professionals are only available if they receive a decent training. In addition, these professionals are not only at work abroad, but also in Austria. Just today, a year ago, there was also a flood disaster in Austria. Given the record of this assistance – there were 3 732 soldiers in the civil service in 1997 – they did a total of 164 800 hours of work – we should thank these soldiers very much today. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] In Lower Austria alone, where the flood was the strongest, 2,600 men with nearly 400 vehicles were employed, with a total of 137,000 working hours. Ladies and gentlemen, that is true civil protection in my view! I believe that a comprehensive national defence with a general military obligation and a military force is something very special. The abolition of the general obligation of military service is therefore not in question for me at this time, since I believe that a certain duty can also be required for the young Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] You need to learn not only to demand something from society, but also to give something to society in many areas – and this is what you learn from the Austrian Federal Army. With a further thanks to the forces of the Austrian Federal Army in the civil field, I would like to end my short speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14567	Mr Grabner has now been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14589	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the political constellations that have changed in recent years, the threat to Austria has changed. In the present situation, therefore, it is not necessary to expand our federal army. Instead, the existing resources must be used more effectively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, the structures of the Austrian federal army must be changed in such a way that a modern military policy can be pursued both for the active state and subsequently for the state of the military. [[Abg. Young: Bravo!]] These structural changes should be implemented in a meaningful manner and not as planned by the Federal Ministry of State Defense by disbanding the artillery line III in Wiener Neustadt and dividing the staff to the tank artillery battalion IX and the artillery school in Baden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] With this concentration of locations I lack the sense of meaning, because the artillery ferment III in Wiener Neustadt is a modern, personal-strong association. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, these properties do not show the tank artillery battalion IX. Since there is too little money, it would be more sensible, as we have always said, to allow the artillery ferment III to exist in Vienna's Neustadt, but to disband the tanker's battalion IX and to include its staff from the artillery school in the same place. As you can hear, the heavy weapons are supposed to come into Styria. There are already protests in the affected community because of these weapons. In contrast to other political groups who are trying to convert the Austrian army into a professional force, my group has spoken out for a federal army with military support. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the existing breakdown of active stocks in conjunction with the general military obligation, which will later be integrated into the military associations, makes sense. Taking into account the current threat of Austria, this system should be considered sufficient. To the budget: Of course, every minister wants much more. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's not!]] But first of all, Minister Fassleven benefits from the sale of the barracks, and second, other ministries have received even less due to the savings package. [[Abg. Scheibner: The interior resort!]] An interesting point of view of the liberals is that the restriction of the voluntary exercise of arms would endanger the security and mob willingness of the German army. – Ladies and gentlemen! I think everyone knows that the Austrian German army has a high priority internationally.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14684	There's no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report has not been required. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the request of the National Defence Committee to take note of its report 1311 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this notice to be a sign. - That's the majority. The report was largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Defence to take note of its report 1313 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the National Defence Committee to take note of its report 1312 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades concerning the worthy release of the military soldiers in the course of the reduction of the German army's military organisation and the creation of a voluntary military. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Defence to take note of its report in 1314. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the presentation of the option report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 21. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1201 of the Supplements): Waste management law Novelle 1998 (1327 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14791	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer, who is satisfied with a four-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14818	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This waste management law-Novelle is – I would like to judge it from the point of view of the Freemans – a consistent continuation of the path taken to solve the waste problem of waste incineration. After the Deponie Regulation, which was already going in this direction, this amendment was adopted by the votes of the government parties in the committee and will be adopted today in plenary session. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, this is a clear indication that this government does not wish to implement strategies to prevent waste. Mr Federal Minister, there are many well-functioning examples in other countries that would be worthy of imitation. However, the government parties in Austria cannot decide to do so. I do not see why there is still no binding pledge regulation in us and an explosion of the number of plastic bonds, which produces a lot of new waste, although there is a huge problem in the plastic collection, which has not been solved so far. The plastic mountains are storming on all landfills, no one can use them, and the money collected for them has long been spent. This is the reason why waste burning should now be facilitated. Federal Minister! They have still not been able to incorporate prevention objectives into the packaging regulation, and the long-standing pressure-type regulation is still missing – let alone that we are finally discussing together a proposal for a circular economy concept. There are approaches abroad that we could look at that we could take over, which we could also adapt for Austria. These would be approaches to how to better deal with the waste problem than with a radical combustion tour. That's not how it works. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We in Austria always boast of high environmental standards. - Because of it! On the issue of waste prevention, comparable countries, including within the European Union, are far ahead of us. You know that too! But I have also found a positive detail in this government template, in relation to mobile combustion plants. I see the possibility that we could move forward with mobile combustion plants in the old- load renovation. This would all be better than the process practiced so far – for example in the setting up of the fishing landfill. To transport the dung from Lower Austria to Burgenland is not an old-age renovation. In this respect, I believe that the use of mobile combustion plants would be quite positive. But the waste burning must not be the only problem-solving strategy! This cannot be the solution to the waste problem. Above all: If additional capacity is built up, these must also be used to enable these combustion plants to be operated economically. In this I see a great danger, Minister of State. Because if we have large combustion capacities, we are also forced to do or transport the appropriate manure so that these plants are used up. Mr Schieder! They shake the head. Do you know that there are contracts in America that the... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I was responsible for 11 years in the state government, I know that exactly! I know, thanks!]] Do you know that these contracts must be respected? [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you don't have to do it!]] It is necessary to simply apply the amount of crap that was determined by contract at the time. In this I see a great danger that we have to face in time. Federal Minister! It is unacceptable to me for this novel that the labelling of waste transport has fallen again, contrary to the original intention. Their reasoning in the Committee that the "A" for waste could be confused with the nationality mark was not really credible, just as the excuse that there would be so many inscriptions on the load weights anyway, no one would see. That wasn't really credible! For today's reason, let yourself think of something better! I come to the conclusion. – Mr Federal Minister, this multi-innovated waste management law is slowly becoming unreadable. Mr Aumayr has already demonstrated this to you in committee. It is relatively easy to get lost in this skill confusion. Let us think about a new overall solution and consider how we might achieve a circular economy concept! This would be far more useful than a committed waste burning.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14878	The honourable Member's head is also mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14899	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schweitzer, you are not quite wrong with your finding that waste law has, in general, been very often innovationized and is therefore no longer optimal in its legibility. That is why we have also added a motion for a resolution to this new law, in which we ask the Federal Minister to quickly prepare a proposal with the working title "AWG 2000", that is, the Waste Management Act 2000, because we also consider that we are... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: The national conference was actually calling for it!]] We asked for it in committee. We have adopted this resolution there and, I hope, will decide today, because it makes sense. Waste is huge and is constantly getting bigger, but not only in Austria, but worldwide. Of course, this has to do with our lifestyle and unfortunately with the development of prosperity and is not so easy to handle. [[Abg. Aumayr: But this is no reason to make bad laws!]] Finally, the ever-improved solutions have also led to the solution of this problem. [[Abg. Aumayr: Not guided!]] – Look Please check the numbers, the recovery numbers and so on, then you will recognize that too! You know very well that this is the case, but for an opposition party it is a matter of polemizing and criticizing. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Don't do it!]] Dear Karl Schweitzer! In addition, on the one hand, you are demanding a type of printing regulation because you have to regulate the type of printing. In fact, however, this would be nothing but an extension of the packaging regulation, which you revil and criticise. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Because no reduction targets are in there!]] So please decide for one or the other! In my opinion, we should use our power to build the law completely in the future, and I am very confident that a very good proposal will be made by the Federal Minister in the foreseeable future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to take a brief look at this novel. It has become necessary due to the development of the last months and years as well as the knowledge from the application of the law; it will provide some clarifications to the waste owner or waste collector, as well as to the small and, above all, to the agricultural farms, facilitating the problem. The municipalities may require money for disposal by means of the problem collection of large operators. It is important that the process of evaluating the economy is urgently needed and, above all, that it facilitates the development of the economy. I believe that the extended ban on mixing is necessary from an ecological point of view, even if it is not, of course, widely seen by all concerned, as it is a further restriction of environmental interest. But it is necessary, ultimately, also to distribute hazardous waste. We have also tabled an amendment which includes clarifications on the function and responsibility of the waste agents. Furthermore, as the Committee's statements show, in Bälde there will be a decree from the Minister defining the minimum requirements for the training of these waste agents, concreteising the content of the waste management concepts and, above all, requiring a one-off update of the older concepts which will already be over five years old in 2000. This is also one of my convictions about the right step towards operational waste prevention or operational waste concepts. All in all, these are useful measures – partly adaptations to EU law, partly necessary adjustments due to the experience gained and a clear indication in the motion for a resolution of a speedy re-design of this whole matter. In my view, we are generally on the right path, although we must say that it is not easy to deal with the problem of waste, and it will still not be easy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e14999	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15020	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the environmental field, the AWG is increasingly developing into what the ASVG is in the social field. The changes since 1992 are overwhelming, which has already been mentioned briefly. [[Abg. Head: It's good, though, like the ASVG!]] – That’s the question! For if it were really so good, my dear colleague, it would not be necessary to change it so often. The fact is, however, that the political objectives laid down in the Waste Management Act are increasingly being weakened in their importance, although they are long-term and no one demands that they be achieved from today to tomorrow. The various changes are increasingly causing these long-term objectives to cease to have the priority they should have. In particular, with this Waste Management Act-Novelle, the prevention of waste seems to me to be even more in the background than has been the case so far. It should also be pointed out that Mr Smolle, who has negotiated this matter for the Liberals in the Committee on the Environment, had the same experience as we had when the AWG was changed in 1996. Even then, the opposition parties had received extensive amendments only very shortly before the meeting, and in spite of the interruption there was no further discussion on the matter. So there is a lack of constructive debate, and we believe that the results of this process look the same. On the specific amendments, it should be said that it cannot be considered positive by the Liberals that mass procedures will be used in the future as early as 100 people and therefore also simplified delivery procedures will take place. This is a deterioration which is not necessary, in particular because, when it comes to mass procedures, there will no longer be a concept of mooring in accordance with the commercial regulations, but will only have a party position of other land owners who are directly on the land in question. It can be seen from the relevant body of law that there is ever more a return to a very narrow area and therefore that the actual concern in the proceedings is no longer taken into account. As a result, the administrative procedures have an increasingly less interest-sharing effect and are of course not suitable for problem-solving. This is a process that should be stopped and not promoted – as you would like to do with this novelle. The transport label has already been addressed. That it was included in the draft we thought was positive. That it is not in the present draft, we think it is negative. In particular, the fact that there is an exemption from the ALSAG contribution for the residues resulting from the combustion of waste is incomprehensible, because this in fact means a promotion of the combustion of waste, Mr. Federal Minister, and therefore from our point of view is inconceivable, because other procedures which have to meet the same qualitative criteria as the combustion of waste are not exempted from the ALSAG contribution. That is to say, the argument that the residues resulting from the waste burning are no longer subject to an old load recovery and therefore are not liable for contributions because they are inert should also apply to all other procedures which are subject to the same criteria in terms of content. – But this is not the case. That is why we believe that this is a one-sided one, which is treacherous and should be avoided in relation to the priorities of the Waste Management Act. That is also a reason why we do not positively evaluate this novelle. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the reliefs for mobile installations, which have ultimately become necessary through the recognition of the Administrative Court, show that no definitive solution has been found. And the year 2000 seems to be a particularly magical limit under this Waste Management Act. In reality, however, it should be mystical, because there will probably be no substantial changes in the content of this proposal. Federal Minister! Since all the motions for resolutions will also focus on the year 2000, it is incomprehensible that at that time there will not have to be a result of a recast of the Waste Management Act, but will only be available to the National Council on the state of the negotiations. That is more or less nothing, because that you are beginning the negotiations, we believe anyway, but that not even a content intermediate goal is set, is to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to hide the fact that the Ministry of the Environment, through its very large cost estimates, is increasingly positive. Nor do I want to conceal the fact that, for example, the possibility of the Federal Ministry of the Environment, decisions of the district authorities which have been adopted in accordance with § 10 of the ALSAG, should be corrected or amended, based on our experience, to be considered positive. However, these small positives are not sufficient to ensure a positive assessment of this government template, given that the long-term objectives of these novels are increasingly being discussed. That is why the Liberals, taking into account this point, will reject this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15060	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15081	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the short term, I would like to make a few comments on the Waste Management Act – the general part of which has already been addressed by my colleague: There is a clear yes by the Socialists to the issue of slags, which we have discussed in detail in the Committee, to the burning and to the promotion of combustion, because we think it is necessary. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But objectively not justified!]] Combustion has a great competition – not from technical equipment, because the desulphurization of smoke gas, the cleaning of flue gas is expensive, not from the transport routes and not from the overcapacity, but simply because the closing times of the landfills allow more and more untreated waste to be dumped in the or open landfills, and the combustion plant cannot offer such dumping prices. I actually believed that yesterday's attitude to burn was bad and everything else was good. That is why I am surprised that the burning of the fires is now being degenerated and discredited. There is no question that there are other systems that may work once, but at the moment I think only the combustion works really satisfactory. Transport is necessary! With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Langthaler, it must be said that we will not agree to a label of waste transport, since we do not think it necessary. We believe that in the case of hazardous waste on the identification of dangerous goods, we find that the waste transport vehicles with "normal" household waste are clearly recognizable to the population. Why did the amendments come so late? [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Always!]] – Some details have been negotiated in the coalition, about which a compromise has then been reached. Such a compromise concerned the role of the waste officer. We agree with this compromise. However, to improve the situation of the waste officer, we could not achieve our demands. I also say quite openly: We have assumed that the Protocol note of the Federal Government is acceptable and is incorporated into the law. However, we had to note that this was not the case with our coalition partner and was being renegotiated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] What do we expect from a waste officer in the future? – We expect to ensure that he can work and work, that he is provided with the material. We are committed to ensuring that he will have to work after a four-eye principle, and we also want to see a training of about 60 hours per week for the waste officer. – This could not be implemented in the first step, which will be our wish for the novelle or for the revision of the waste right. Secondly, the waste management concept. In this respect, I did not fully understand the economy, as it actually did to this refusal to continue the waste management concept. The companies that do so were thus able to achieve economic success. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in bringing continuity into the novelle, even this desire will come in 2000. The revision in 2000 is a success that we accept. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the 2000 waste management concept is a utopia. We are going to implement it to continue a successful path in 2000 with a modern lawmaking work. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15138	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15159	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer and also Mr Deputies Barmüller has already referred to the fact that we have missed the opposition in particular that no discussion has taken place at all on the area of waste prevention. In fact, when we discussed a waste management law, including in the public debate, the objective was actually to intervene in a legislative waste-minimizing way. Why is this neither in committee nor – unfortunately! – in the public debate in the debate hardly before, although the data would show us how necessary it is? To give just one example: In the area of beverage packaging, the proportion of disposable plastic bottles has grown enormously; only in the last two years there has been an increase of 2 to 27 percent, which shows all market investigations – in the case of a simultaneous decrease of several-way bonds. We had an enormously high standard in the field of multi-way beverage packaging for a long time in Austria. Now it is also in Austria – and this is not a European approximation that I would like to see – in this direction: away from multi-way links, to decommissioning. The whole thing doesn't happen by chance. It began years ago with the framework conditions for this waste management law, with the accompanying regulations, for example the packaging regulation, with not only more plastic, but above all on waste burning. That is why, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Kummerer: I consider this novelle – as was the last one in 1996, which is the basis for the big entry into waste burning in Austria – not only for ecological reasons, but also for economic reasons, I think it is bad, and I think it is so bad, because it will no longer be possible to avoid waste. Waste incineration simply means that plants – central, large plants – are built with an annual volume of at least 120 000, 130,000 tonnes of waste, so that the combustion is at all profitable; and these plants need waste. Where and why should anyone else be really interested in putting forward specific prevention strategies and thinking about: What does a product really look like from the beginning to the end? We should discuss the ecological design of products, the life cycle of a product, not only look at products oriented to disposal, but we should also encourage the industry to consider: How can a product be placed on the market, so that it not only causes as little environmental problems as possible in production, but also in application and subsequently in disposal as little problems as possible? This, Minister, is the real background why we are discussing sustainable economies and sustainable development. This law novel has nothing to do with it, it is disposal-oriented, it deals with the more or less well-ordered disposal of waste. No one claims that the ecological disaster now immediately breaks out if one adopts this law in this form, but it is not only a clear commitment to the incineration of waste, but also to the fact that one does not want to take initiatives in the field of waste prevention. This is one of the points that are absolutely to be criticized from an ecological point of view and, of course, from the Greens; the discussion was also taking place from our side in recent months. The debate on waste burning is now being dealt with as if the problem had been solved technologically. Apart from the fact that a waste incinerator costs 2 billion schilling, so it's incredibly expensive: If only we were to invest nearly so much resources in decentralized, mechanical-biological installations, then, Mr Kummerer, we would soon have a residual product in this technology, which would be easy to deposit. I give you the right to say that the state of a reactor deposit and the prevailing dumping prices at landfills are absolutely unsatisfying. I'm the last one to defend something like that. Only: We have also predicted that the price of landfills will fall and that the landfills will be filled up at the lowest prices. Until you have implemented your concept with waste combustion plants, two, three, four years will pass; as long as you need for the appropriate tests, for construction, for commissioning. Until then, a very different situation will prevail: There will be many of the landfills we have filled in wide areas. If one had invested at the same time years ago and even now almost as much both in technological development and in decentralized mechanical-biological installations, one would not only have saved a lot of money, but could actually choose a form of disposal, which really leads to the industry considering the production process. It would be very important to me in the debate on waste policy that it is not always a matter of being committed to the disposal of waste arising. – Yes, that’s the simplest thing: They are taken, they are thrown into a waste burning – of slag and ashes, they are said to be inert – and they are deposited. Forget about it, done it. But this has nothing to do with the sustainable economy. If you are serious about discussing sustainable development, it is not just taking into account the last phase of a product and trying to solve the problem, then you should look at the whole thing. They should improve product quality, they should really be chosen from the outset only those production processes in which there are no major problems in disposal, but in which mechanical-biological processes can also obtain a final product which can easily be deposited. This allows you to discuss sustainable development and sustainable production methods. I thought this was a serious discussion of the Waste Management Act 2000 and the question of what to look like in the next millennium product line development. This is a serious discussion – and not just a disposal-oriented one. I think it is also problematic to think that the matter of waste burning has now been technically solved. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that only a few weeks ago a large conference, organised by the UN, took place in Montreal: What are the chemicals that make us the most of the problems that we really have to ban around the world? – In addition to the old "classics" of DDT and PCBs, these are which – and they are mentioned in detail – which, without wishing to do so, arise as unwanted by-products in the case of combustions: Dioxins and furane. Now I know that in Austria a very stricter In this context, I do not want to say that there has been any technological change in the last few years. It is, however, still true that dioxins and furans – even if they are only in small quantities – are emitted. If one reads the surveys on soil pollution from the Federal Environment Agency, one sees that this is still a problem and it is not to be solved because it is not a hundred percent to be handled with the waste burning in this form. I do not understand why the possibility of a parallel development of another form of disposal or treatment – i.e. mechanical-biological – is prevented so strongly by the Social Democrats. I think this is a one-sided position and hope that this will change over the next few months. I would like to address very briefly the other criticisms, which is why we cannot in no way accept the Greens of this amendment to the law: I think that the classification of hazardous waste, as contained in the novelle in § 4a, is wrong. This is a legal asymmetry and, precisely because of the fact that waste is automatically considered as waste, if the authority does not respond within six weeks, can undoubtedly pose problems in the future. The temporary special scheme for mobile installations in § 15 is one of the many examples that show the lack of a uniform environmental plant law in Austria. I do not think that this special scheme can be justified by anything. Mobile systems can have the same risk potential as static. That is why, of course, an § 29 study as well as other systems would be necessary for mobile systems. The transport of waste has been addressed. There was a ministerial draft from the environmental sector, according to which waste transport should have been marked. Especially for all from the federal state of Tyrol it is perhaps interesting to know: The Ministry of the Environment itself has conducted an investigation and found that at least 5 percent of the transits by Tyrol are waste transits, which in absolute terms means around 60 000 trucks in Austria. I considered a label to be correct and necessary, just as it is handled in Germany, and I therefore tabled an equal amendment, as was originally contained in the ministerial template: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that the other two opposition parties agree to this amendment in order to send a signal that at least part of this House would have considered such a regulation to be good. The release of residues from the waste burning from the old load recovery contribution naturally fits into the picture. If you really want to promote waste burning financially, then you take it off. I am convinced that this violates the principle of equality. It is not to be seen why one creates a special scheme and provides such a financial incentive. Minister! I am sorry that you, the Minister for the Environment, agree to such a scheme. As a chemist, you know exactly that slags and ash are never a hundred percent inert, and you can't tell me that for you, keywords like "early crustlike" et cetera are credible. It's not like that. Anyone who does not believe it should simply go with me to the Flötzersteig or to Spittelau and can see that, although there has been some improvement, slags and ash are still residuals which require special landfills, for which therefore, of course, an old load recovery contribution should still be paid. I consider an exemption to be ecological and political wrong. I hope that what you promise will be much better in 2000 than what you decide today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15300	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15324	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Langthaler! On the one hand, there is the possibility of depositing garbage by a few hundred schillings on an old-fashioned dump, but on the other hand, one is faced with the choice of paying a few thousand shillings per tonne for disposal, for thermal recovery. That is, I believe, a point where it is absolutely impossible to understand why you claim that the forced use of thermal waste – the combustion of waste – would directly favour the production of waste. Because what happens on the market? – The price is also regulated on the market. If waste disposal over waste incineration plants will undoubtedly be more expensive in the future than the cheap, ecologically worrying waste disposal in landfills, then there will certainly be pressure from the market to produce less waste, and this can also be proved by figures. Mrs Langthaler! That we in Austria would not rely on waste prevention is not true. Read the 1998 waste management plan, which is now being sent to Parliament! It is true that in the case of primary waste, that is to say, what is first of all about household waste, we have reached a level which can no longer be lowered. There is a decoupling of economic growth and waste growth, but in absolute terms it is growing very well. But because, thanks to the well-known waste policy of recent years, Mr and Mrs Österreicher have become true world champions of apartheid and recycling, the amount of waste that comes into the landfill or waste incineration continues to decline significantly. - For one thing. Second, from chemist to chemist: I am very convinced by experts that slags and ashes from modern waste combustion plants are highly inert and can at least be safely deposited. These are not quantities that will cause us problems in the future, and I therefore believe that it is justified to refrain from any old-age rehabilitation contribution in this context in the future. It is not true that the mechanical-biological plants will not have a chance now and in the future. So far, they do not work enough on a large-scale basis, neither in Austria nor elsewhere. You know very well that the Deposit Regulation even leaves some variants that have been taken in by me despite the resistance of some experts. But today we can reliably dispose of waste-incinerators, so we want to have achieved those capacities in Austria that it needs by the year 2004. They have addressed the dioxin and furan limits: The said 0.1 nanograms per cubic meter are just lowered in the waste burning area, which is a very responsible limit. I would be pleased if this limit value could be observed in other areas always and everywhere. According to the Federal Environment Agency, which will still be the subject of the debate today, the proportion of dioxins and furans present in Austria is largely from abroad. So much on this issue, which has been a major issue for you, but also for the environmental spokespersons of the liberals, namely the promotion of combustion. It is not a favour, but it is a fair opportunity, a good and reasonable opportunity to create the appropriate infrastructure in our country. That the Waste Management Act, on the one hand, as a large, on the other hand as a young legal act, should be subject to a major novel within the next few years, is, I believe, perfectly normal. Ten years have gone to the country. The AWG-Novelle 2000 is to be launched and I thank you for the resolution of the House on this subject. However, I am also grateful for the resolution tabled by the House, which calls on me, but also on the Minister of Economic Affairs, to make available, on the basis of § 29 of the Waste Management Act, the corresponding regulations on the incineration of waste – primarily hazardous waste, but subsequently also on non-hazardous waste. I believe that these regulations should be based on § 29 of the AWG and not on other legislative instruments. Ladies and gentlemen! So much from my point of view about this important novel of the Waste Management Act, which fulfils a number of essential points, but which I do not have to go into more detail, because both Mr Deputies' Head and the representative of the government partner SPÖ, Mr Kummerer, have already referred to them in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15385	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Stampler has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15410	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Before I start with my statements on the AWG-Novelle, I would like to say the following: Austria has an exemplary environmental law. We have standards that environmentalists in other countries can only dream of. As regards the waste management, we have an internationally recognised and praised system, as well as the restoration of the old loads. I quote from § 1 of the AWG: In Z 4, it is precisely stated that waste management should be aligned with the fact that only those substances remain as waste, whose disposal does not represent a potential for risk to future generations. Precautionary principle. - Quote. § 2 clarifies by laying down the principle of "avoidance before disposal before disposal" to which the Austrian People's Party has always stood. I think it is very important that our waste management law does not give preference to one method or another, but merely to the objective of not endangering future generations. We have a sustainable law, because the state of the art is a constantly changing variable. Disposal techniques, which are only imaginable today, can already be the rule tomorrow. But all these changes must always be geared towards the waste management objective and be taken into account in the AWG. That's what I'm doing with the novelle. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment not only adapts the Waste Management Act to EU law, but also brings many improvements for both the economy and the environment. The Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family is now authorized to lay down by regulation the conditions under which and for what purpose waste is used in certain wastes. It was referred to § 4a in relation to classification; I would like to comment briefly on this. The new § 4a now sets out a procedure under which it is possible to prove that certain hazardous wastes are not to be classified as dangerous. This procedure is very strict and can only be demonstrated by externally authorised professionals, and waste is considered as dangerous until the procedure is completed. Time limits have also been criticized. I would like to say that it is always the greens who complain when an authority needs too long periods to make decisions. Now I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to thank you and the officials of the Ministry for this good government paper and, above all, thank you for mentioning all the costs of the law as provided for in the consultation mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15497	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is under negotiation. Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15527	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Stampler, you have spoken of the fact that the legislative innovations are making it easier for the economy and for the environment to benefit. I only show you by a single example how difficult it is to keep those promises you have made. [[Call the ÖVP: You must be careful!]] I can only tell you: This law is just as Mr Kopf has already admitted to it in committee: They are not proud of this law either. Look View the page 5 of this novel to: § 4a, para. 5! Listen [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] You are asking what laws will be passed in this country today! A landfill operator shall take over a particular waste and subsequently show, for the purpose of landfilling from its landfill, the proof of non-hazardousness in accordance with Abs. 1 Z 1 – Paragraph 1 1 Z 1 reads as follows: the owner of a particular waste or Z2: the waste producer of waste from a defined process of consistent quality for a period to be specified in the Regulation shall apply to such waste with the indication in accordance with paragraph 1. 1 as not dangerous. This rule of law does not apply if the ad is an incorrect or falsified assessment within the meaning of the first paragraph. 4 based. Abs. 4: According to the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family, within six weeks of the receipt of the advertisement or within the term in Abs. 2 or 3 time limits are not stated – now I can read to you paragraphs 2 and 3, they are as long as they are, at least 20 lines. Alone in the Abs. 5 – in this one paragraph. 5! – there are six cross-references, and I can tell you: This law is practically not comprehensible for the "Otto normal consumer", but it should be able to understand it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I understood everything!]] It is unreadable, the citizen can hardly "hand" it. It is just like a law like that at the time when Mrs. Frieser said at the "Summerloch" that she would no longer agree to legible laws. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Cordula Frieser understood well!]] Today, with this new law, you decide exactly such a bad law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This law is well understood with average emotional intelligence!]] Federal Minister! This novel is like the government's waste policy: conceptually, without perspective. Burning is simply not a perspective. There has also been a true victory campaign of PET bottles. There's no question at all: The plastic bottle has long pushed out the disposable bottle, and of course it has to be burned. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The glass bottle!]] - Yes, the glass bottle is clear. I would like to say the following, Mr Federal Minister, because you spoke about the Waste Management Act 2000: The year 2000 is already totally overcrowded: a waste management law, a tax reform 2000. The government really promises what this stuff holds for the year 2000. I hope the year 2000 will not look old before it ever came.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15619	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15641	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Basically, I have it easy, I only have four minutes of speech. The Federal Minister has made it very clear what this novel is about, and why we are trying to increase equal opportunities for waste burning. In fact – and I admit that – this draft law is disposal-oriented because we currently have two problems if we want to achieve the ambitious objectives set in the 2004 landfill regulation. First of all, we have the problem of filling up inadequate landfills at dumping prices at the moment, which has nothing to do with waste prevention, and secondly, that we are trying to use inadequate combustion plants too. For this reason, combustion plants that satisfy all modern findings and all emission protection directives will be "sugarl", if you want to call it "sugarl". This is important, and my group is committed to this. I really can't understand why there should be no preventive effect if a cheap, poor landfill of a relatively expensive combustion plant is compared. This comparison is limping. I am, however, quite open to a discussion on alternative procedures. In my opinion, however, such a discussion should be as objective as recently as a major event on mechanical and biological waste treatment initiated by the Federal Minister, or as formulated in a letter from the MBA Association of Interests, which – I assume other environmental speakers have also received this letter – calls for a discussion – I quote: "Our Association of Interested Persons believes that there can be no discussion of thermal exploitation of counter-mechanical-biological treatment. For optimised waste management is to take place depending on the mechanical-biological pre-treatment ('resist waste sharing') of the thermal recycling of the resulting, heat-rich fractions and the depositing of the residual fractions resulting from both processes." - Quote. On this basis one can certainly discuss; and even in the classical thermal waste burning there are approaches to other, perhaps better processes, only one must finally decide to build plants. It is not very helpful when reservations are constantly shaken, such as in the newspaper "daily everything", in which on the topic "How dangerous is waste burning?" It is claimed that this novelle would remove slags and ash – in brackets: loaded with dioxin – from the regulation. – This is unscrupulous panic and has nothing to do with serious discussion. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Always these media!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So it's not a one-sided thing if we're currently forcing the waste burning. We need this if, in 2004, we want to achieve the goal of stockpiling only inert material. Every serious environmental politician must confess himself to novels like this, although I also believe that, in the sense of greater clarity and simplification, we must strive for the planned waste management law 2000, which will be an extremely important policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we are on the right track, and I therefore ask you to give your consent to this necessary innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15677	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The remaining time of your club is 16 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: 3 minutes!]] Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15713	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address three aspects in three minutes' time. Minister! You said we should follow the discussion seriously. I'll give you the right thing. However, it must also be mentioned in a serious way that the landfill regulation of the period up to 2004 has been extended in order to have time to build up waste-incinerators. If this period were to be shortened and the pressure to restore the landfills increased, landfills would not be available for long periods of time at dumping prices. This is an aspect to be mentioned honestly. The second aspect is that, as my previous speaker has already explained, waste incineration plants are only profitable from 20 000 tonnes a year. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: 200 000!]] Even higher, I hear of you 200 000 tons. – This, however, has a massive "waste tourism" and therefore also more traffic congestion, it is due to transport – a "waste-coupling" – from the periphery to the centres where the waste-incinerators would have to be stationed rationally – if you want them; I don't want them! Such a "waste tourism" is a problem which has already been mentioned in part in the Alpine transit, namely that additional traffic is generated and is therefore counterproductive. This is the second aspect. Gentlemen of Social Democracy! The third aspect is that bio-mechanical treatment, which can also meet the conditions of the depositing under the Deposit Directive for 2005 – in the small-scale sector it has proven itself, in the new federal states of our neighbouring country Germany it is forced – is ideal for job creation in the regions. This technology is more labour-intensive and ensures jobs in the regions, while the combustion of jobs is being removed from the regions and concentrated in the centres in a diluted form as it is less jobs. That is why I do not understand that for labour market policy reasons you do not support the biological-mechanical method. These are three aspects that need to be taken seriously into account in a waste discussion, and which you have failed or failed to observe in this novel of the Waste Management Act. They are precisely in the traps of one-dimensional large-scale technology in themselves, but should be multi-dimensionalally oriented with a view to sustainable prevention of waste – for example, production conditions could be redesigned and product designs modified. This would be a future-looking, multidimensional way, even in terms of technology aspects! This should be taken more into account. I'm sorry you're not going this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15752	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. – I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their place. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1327 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Langthaler and comrades submitted an additional request. Mr Kopfmüller and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the applications and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure states that the constitutionally planned presence quorum is given. Deputies Ing. Langthaler and comrades have submitted an additional request to insert a new Z 29a in Art. I....................................................................................................................... In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The Members of Parliament, Mr Kopf, Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which is in the form of an amendment. IZ 45 and Art. II. Z 2. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the majority. Accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, title and receipt, which have not yet been voted on, now in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. I once again note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Once again, I note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1327 of the Supplements, Appendix 2, on the impact of the Packaging Regulation. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 131.) We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1327 of the Supplements, Appendix 3, on the regulation on the incineration of waste, both in waste treatment plants and in industrial plants. In the case of your consent, I would also like a sign for that. – This is the majority. Accepted. (E 132.) Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1327 of the Supplements in Appendix 4 on the recast of the Waste Management Act based on the principle of prevention of waste. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. (E 133.) That concludes the voting procedure. 22. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (1206 of the Supplements): Environmental Control Act (1328 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15892	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first mention is made by Mr Mag. Sweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e15922	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals believe that it is good and right for the state to withdraw from tasks that the private sector can do better. That is why we support all the developments, Mr Federal Minister, where this is really useful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But with regard to the exclusion of the Federal Environment Agency, we believe that State control should not be released from public administration, especially because, as the Court of Auditors has shown, the costs will obviously rise by means of a breakdown in the planned form. Just as the Court of Auditors is unable to privatise for objectivity reasons, the Federal Environment Agency should not be privatised in the form you have provided. It is not a real privatisation anyway, as the "band" remains open to the public. The federal government remains a hundred percent owner and continues to finance the whole year with 222 million schilling. Thus, privatisation, as the "normal consumer" imagines, cannot be a talk. You have all of this under control and yet you're talking about a privatisation. Federal Minister! This is a sham-privatization that still causes a lot more costs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you know from several letters from engineering consultants, from civil engineers who have also received you, it will create a state-subsidized and therefore distorting competition for private providers, since this will, of course, become a problem for all those who do not have state support, Minister of State. That is why I do not only see control in the previous form, but also a threat to the existence of private professionals, who, in a world where competition is becoming more and more intense, cannot also be required from the State side. Federal Minister! In addition, the director was "at random" in § 18 until his retirement age was reached. It does not speak of Mr Struwe, who has done his job perfectly, but it is strange and remarkable that the current director of the Federal Environment Agency is so to speak, until he reaches his retirement age. Remarkable! On the other hand, it was not possible to agree on a mention of the branches in Klagenfurt and Salzburg. – Also remarkable! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Federal Minister! Furthermore, legal inaccuracy is remarkable. In § 12 para. 1 write by "one or two" managing directors. – How many will it be? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: I'm typing on two!]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Two! A red one and a black one! There will be two or four!]] Two? Maybe a red one and a black one? Could that be? - No, probably not. [[Ironic no-run on the liberals.]] But you may, if you want, give us an answer. Federal Minister! A breakdown in this form is an eye-catching and is taken seriously by no one who has been concerned with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16006	The honourable Member's head is also mentioned. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16062	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I don't quite understand your excitement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are not excited at all! You're nervous!]] It is a perfectly normal formulation in the empowerment of a society to ensure in the event that it appears appropriate to have two managing directors – something that does not necessarily have to be. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: But yes!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: How was the Federal Office for Civil Aviation?]] I can well remember the repeated demands that the four-eye principle should apply in the management of societies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr]] But that's supposed to be broken all of a sudden. You always focus your argumentation as you just need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Red-black or just black?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speaker, we also confess that tasks that are not necessarily carried out by the federal administration, but also by companies that are either owned by the federal government, which is useful in this case, or in general by those who are third-party, will not be kept ad infinitum in the federal administration. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I think so too, red-black! At least honestly!]] We believe that the tasks of the Federal Environment Agency can at least be carried out by a society, in this case with limited liability. Such a construction offers many advantages. That tight and tight corset of the federal administration with all these things in the law of duty – yes, for those who are already inside! – offers too little flexibility compared to employee law and requires too many restrictions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rieß]] The new structure allows the Office much more flexibility, also in the employment of third parties on contract constructions and so on, all that the Federal Environment Agency urgently needs. No person has an interest in limiting the benefits of the Federal Environment Agency (a) or (b) in any form in their effect. On the contrary: The Federal Environment Agency has done valuable work in the past and will continue to do so. But the new form of society offers many opportunities to work more flexiblely and beyond the task and task of the federal government where it makes sense to work for third parties as well. However, it was of course also important to ensure that there is no unfair competition from civil engineers operating in this market, since the Federal Environment Agency receives a basic subsidy for the completion of the tasks entrusted to it from the League. That was the reason for the Committee's determination, with reference to § 6 para. 4 of the EU Directive on the coordination of the procedure for awarding public service contracts, which, of course, must be taken into account, but should be documented again. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is the new weapon: committee establishment!]] Overall, we have found a good and reasonable form in the context of this exclusion, with accompanying measures in the law, through which we ensure, on the one hand, that the Federal Environment Agency can, of course, continue to carry out the tasks for the Federal Government, on the other hand, allowing the UBA to be more flexible in the performance of its tasks and, on the other hand, paves the way for existing bodies to be used in the future to discharge the Federal budget for third parties. The fact that the budget, which has so far increased annually, could now be covered will bring some relief to the Federal budget in the coming years. I think that this overall is a successful way of disseminating, an issue which we have to discuss and decide on several occasions at the following item on the agenda. I would therefore ask you to agree to this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16204	Mr Smolle has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16225	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! Gospod Minister! Minister! High house! Mr President. Mr Kopf has just tried to present it as if everything in this law would anyway be counter-carriaged by the Committee's report, but I must say that the Committee's report actually only calms down the bad conscience you had in adopting this matter. I am very brief in some points why the Liberal Forum rejects this proposal. Firstly, we believe that environmental control can also be carried out by private individuals, and we see in the presentation a unilateral preference of the Federal Environment Agency. I think that this is an unjustified preference. They have already mentioned the various letters from civil engineering offices, which could take over some of the UBA's tasks. At the same time, there is constant regret that the research and development budget of enterprises, especially commercial enterprises, is too low. It would therefore be very important for these companies to receive additional orders. It is also a preference to the university and other research institutes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Why opposite the university?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Cross-subsidisation is still possible. We know that private individuals cannot offer at the cost of themselves because they are profit-oriented. That is why this is a very clear and unjustified preference. They also know that the Federal Environment Agency does not pay any taxes. This tax exemption has not been eliminated by the Committee's establishment. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. What a terrible thing!]] In view of the fact that the Federal Environment Agency is, on the one hand, a supervisor and, on the other, a contractor, on the other hand, is feeling very ungood and very bad. As one wants to put it under one hat, that the same legal person carries out both tasks at the same time, one must explain this to me first. I also believe that this will violate EU directives. It is contrary to that. This is a one-sided preference with federal resources. They are always yelling at the ambulatory, while it would be reasonable to go on the consistent path you are taking elsewhere on this issue. However, the central questions are as follows: Will there be a savings? Will effectiveness increase? – We say clearly: no!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16274	Mr Brix is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16303	Mr President. Federal Minister! I'll say it in advance: Mr Schweitzer is right. I was and am still opposed to the exclusion today, because I believe that the Federal Environment Agency, when Minister for the Environment Steyrer made it, was in this form the best that could be created for environmental policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I was born, Brix! Don't forget that! We still ruled with you!]] – I was just a birth worker with my boy. That was worth much more to me, that was really something beautiful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That wasn't very good!]] But since at the time – and I am still in favour of it today – I felt that the Federal Environment Agency in this form was the best it had given, I believe that under the circumstances, all of us involved were able to create a law that would enable this office to be a genuinely objective environmental control for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] That is clearly the case! I repeat: I am voting in favour of this because I now believe that it is the best in these circumstances! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Are you against or before?]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Under what circumstances?]] With "under these circumstances" I believe that there was first a partial breakdown to the discussion. All of us, including you, Mr Langthaler, have spoken about the destruction of the Federal Environment Agency. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a political "fearest"!]] But with this law we have received it as a whole. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: So not a little bad, but quite!]] I add another point: It is not only preserved as a whole, but this law is, and this contradicts the statements made by my previous speaker, very much in accordance with EU law. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Brix! You'll get a whole body mirror from us for Christmas!]] I am also contradicting another previous speaker, Mr Schweitzer, who has claimed that everything will be thrown together now that they are public, but can also appear on the private market, the tax will definitely be reduced to them. The Federal Environment Agency will, of course, continue to act in public form as the Austrian Environmental Control Institute. It will be able to carry out those measures which he is entitled to because of this position, but in a shared form, because it can now also take over private contracts, allowing butter - you permit me to quote you, Federal Minister - to earn the bread for it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: All right!]] However, in the case of private contracts, it does not have the same meaning as in those cases where it appears as a public office. That's right and good. [[Abg. Smolle: But how are these roles to play at the same time, Mr. Colleague?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The divergent personal opinion of Mr Monika Langthaler states that the Republic of Austria cannot afford to lose the only institution independent of private interests to control the environment. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's it!]] Very right! That is why we have passed the law in such a way that this office remains the only one to ensure objective control of the environment. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Then you don't know what's inside!]] From this pult, they will not be able to disprove by any single sentence that the Federal Environment Agency does not continue to remain an objective control institution as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is the Committee's position for?]] We have, Mr Kopf, already mentioned this, created in this law a basic subsidy for the federal states, so that the financial foundations are preserved there too. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: A great creation!]] The branches in Salzburg and Klagenfurt, which were addressed by Mr Schweitzer, will continue to exist. We will, with Argusaugen, ensure that they remain in the interests of those who take advantage of these branches. This too remains the same as it is. Mr Langthaler and ladies and gentlemen of this House! The Federal Environment Agency is committed to this House and will submit an environmental monitoring report every three years – just as it has been so far. We have also achieved by this law that, at the request of the individual political groups, the members of the Federal Environment Agency will be obliged to come to the clubs to answer questions there. We therefore have a "glass" objective institution, which will continue to examine and control the environment on all issues. However, I would like to mention that we have achieved something else. In the morning "Kurier" is on page 2 – but only when talking! – that the contract staff should earn more than the officials there. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Otmar, your time has expired!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Something else I didn't mean!]] We – the government partners ÖVP and SPÖ – have worked together to create all the rights for the contract staff so that, if this law was passed on to the 1. In January 1999, women and men are not disadvantaged. That's our argument. In this lies our strength. In contrast to your committee statement, Mrs Langthaler, we are doing something for the people there, they are more at our heart than the paper on which you have such things printed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: They see this a little different!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: I believe that through the new Environmental Control Act, the Federal Environment Agency, which Minister Steyrer created at the time, remains the objective guardian of our environment – only now in another form.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16584	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Langthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16605	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brix! I don't know if you really believe what you just said, or whether it's just a kind of dream danceric assumption that everything will stay the way it is. [[Abg. Brix: Yes!]] [[Abg. Brix: I'm dancing pretty bad!]] I still wonder – and I could not be convinced in many discussions – why you want to fill out the Federal Environment Agency, which works well with which everyone is actually satisfied. A control body, such a sensitive area, whose highest value is to be credible, to act independently, to release itself into competition now, although with a secure, supposedly stable basic financing for the next few years – the so-called butter on’s bread must be earned on the market – naturally leads to a distortion of competition against other civil engineering agencies! [[Abg. Smolle: What is this competition?]] We all know that. And, of course, there is an absolute conflict of interest. One cannot control a farm in the morning and go in the afternoon to purchase an order. This is absurd, Mr Brix. No one comes up with the idea of privatising the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] I have often argued, and the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out that this does not do anything budgetaryly. At the beginning it was always the main argument that one must make outlays because this would bring something on the budget. - Good. We have looked at this argument, we have discussed it, there have been several posts on it. But under the rule, it will not do anything on the budget. Second argument: The UBA must or should be able to operate better and more freely. Other or better working conditions are to be created. – Minister! I don't understand. Was it so strong under your or political spatula that you wish it could work more freely or better in the future? - No, I hope it wasn't. I have greatly appreciated the reports, the work of the Federal Environment Agency in recent years. I believe that there is no doubt that such a Federal Environment Agency can be improved, for example, in the structure, in the administration, that it is organisationally possible to improve it, possibly in terms of personnel, so that some things can easily be adapted to the changes. But in total – and I believe this is true for all parties, there is a rare unanimity – all the political groups in this House have always been extremely satisfied with the work of the Federal Environment Agency. I really see UBA's independence at great risk. Mr Brix! I really cannot imagine that the Federal Environment Agency will continue to work in the same way that it does not in the next few years... – Yes, why, Mr Brix? [[Abg. Brix: Why?]] Don't you think there will be a conflict of interest? [[Abg. Brix: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Do you not think that, if you need to acquire and to have used the laboratories better, you will of course also have to go to those places which, in an indirect or direct manner, also need to be controlled? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Sure, quite clear!]] Mr Brix! I don't understand! The country you live in, where you make environmental policy is a small country. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Brix.]] Everyone knows, each company knows the other! That's ridiculous. Even with best will, on best conditions this will not succeed. [[Abg. Smolle: Where she is right she is right!]] Again: No one else comes up with the idea of privatising control. "Power needs control!" It was a popular campaign slogan over six years ago, and in many areas it would be true. In any case, it is true that environmental control is correct. There has always been a good cooperation for Parliament – and that is how it will hopefully be in the next few years – with the Federal Environment Agency. I don't understand the Social Democrats. For me, such decisions remain – it is true that you really fall by 100 per cent, Mr Brix, and actually fall within the EIA strategy at 100 per cent! – always open the question: How do you actually feel in an ÖVP government alone, but as a party you would actually have the majority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16766	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Schweitzer, you have blamed me for talking about privatisation, although there would not even be a sham privatisation of the Federal Environment Agency. - That's basic falsification. I've always been talking about a breakdown. It is certainly not a privatisation, nor will it be, because the state's 100% property in the Federal Environment Agency will not change and nothing will change. It was my intention from the outset to use the distribution of the Federal Environment Agency to strengthen the Federal Environment Agency, to give priority to securing the future of the Federal Environment Agency, and, as Mr Brix said today, to enable the Federal Environment Agency to earn butter today, in the future, because the services provided in the Federal Environment Agency are so excellent that they are marketable and can be provided with services that can also be expected in the free market. However, it is by no means the right thing, Mrs Langthaler and my gentlemen, of the liberties whom you have mentioned several times, that this is a distortion of competition which would endanger the private in their existence. Ladies and gentlemen from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I wonder at all: Yesterday, Mr Ofner, Mr President, has made the professions detestable, and today you are once again the protectors of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. But back to the Federal Environment Agency. Three provisions in the Environmental Control Act prevent distortions of competition. It is first made clear that in the case of benefits to third parties, § 6 para. It is necessary to remove at least a cost-covering fee - that it can only be the exception that the fee is cost-effective to fix a committee statement; normally a profit supplement will be required; secondly, that there is a ban on cross-subsidisation; and thirdly, that subsidized areas should be placed in separate accounting circles. I therefore absolutely do not see the distortion of competition vis-à-vis private individuals. The monitoring functions of the Federal Environment Agency remain fully maintained. I am also pleased that this breakdown of the Federal Environment Agency can go over the political stage not only in line with the management but also with the staff representation of the House. If it is true that good things need time, then today the House is adopting a good law for a better future of the Federal Environment Agency.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16833	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Ellmauer is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16857	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Smolle! We don't have a bad conscience as you meant before. – On the contrary: We are good courage; we have, together with our coalition partner, produced a proposal that will certainly go into the future. Environmental control, which is the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family under the Environmental Control Act, is amended in its design and adapted to EU directives. The Federal Environment Agency, which has carried out its tasks well, is distributed from the Federal Government in accordance with the budget programme. It also retains the special status of an environmental protection body of the federal government in the legal form of a GesmbH. The breakdown of the Federal Environment Agency is mentioned in the Federal Government's budget programme from 1996 to 2000. In addition, the Coalition Convention explicitly provides for the exclusion of public administration services. The Federal Environment Agency, through its excellent research and control reports, has played a significant role in Austrian environmental policy and has thereby acquired a good reputation. It continues to be entrusted with important environmental protection tasks. It can now not only receive orders from the Federal Ministries or the local authorities, but it will be used to carry out environmental control for the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family and to support the environmental policy of the Federal Government, as well as to provide technical bases and opinions. In future, as has been said, the GesmbH will also be given the opportunity, on behalf of third parties, to provide certain services against remuneration. However, priority should be given to the Federal and other local authorities. The fees are intended to go beyond the purely cost-benefit contribution, i.e. to generate profits. The Federal Minister has just emphasized – he stressed this several times – that it would be particularly important to ensure that there is no distortion of competition against private providers and that there will be no dumping prices. The UBA now has much more opportunities with the changed and modern organisational structures and can act more flexibly on the market. This will make management more transparent, while public control remains. The managing director, Mr. Schweitzer, will be available to the National Council, the Federal Council and the Federal Government at any time for information and support. In principle, I would like to point out the following: It is becoming increasingly important for the state to reorganise the administration, as society has changed considerably in recent years. The claims to the State are getting higher. The public expects the state to provide the same quality of service as it is used to by other services. Therefore, politics must redesign and improve the state. The State must develop from a traditional image to a service state. It needs to become more citizen- and customer-oriented. In order to achieve this, the State must focus on its core functions and privatise or separate business activities. At present, it is known that not only the distribution of the Federal Environment Agency, but also the Federal Accounting Centre, and so on are being carried out. These breakdowns do not mean, however, that the State withdraws from responsibility, but it does only carry out these tasks differently. The State must ensure, by means of framework conditions, that its citizens have the advantage of providing services to citizens at a cheaper and faster rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is to say, it is not about simply deregulation, but about a hopefully improved new regulation culture. In this sense, I welcome the compromise which this exclusion represents, and I hope that the Federal Environment Agency, in its new robe, will be equipped with new opportunities to better grow the demands of the market, and that it will fulfil its tasks to the full satisfaction of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16927	Mr Wimmer is now on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e16949	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you of a few essential points in the near future to change the legal form of the Federal Environment Agency; many of them have already been said today. The Federal Environment Agency is an important institution which since 1985 has played a significant part in Austrian environmental policy. Her research work is internationally recognised, her basic work is essential for Austrian environmental policy. I therefore say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that a good compromise has been found with the exclusion of the Federal Environment Agency in the present form. It wasn't always like that. In the discussions over the last few months, the term "participation" often fell. To be sure, this important control body would have been smashed, with fatal consequences. This danger is now banned. The Federal Environment Agency remains in its unity, it even gets a special status, it becomes an environmental specialist of the federal government. As a very important point, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that the connection of this Federal Institute to the federal states has worked very well. I would like to say from this point of view that, with Argusaugen, we are going to see that these posts will continue to be preserved in the future, because they are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Centralized institutions can often be very useful. Nothing against the Federal Capital of Vienna, but a little bit you have to leave us in the federal states as well; even then, if it makes sense, as in this case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] In future, the employees of the Federal Environment Agency will be able to do their excellent work more independently than before. In the end, this was the goal to be achieved through the new Environmental Control Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17000	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur, so we are immediately entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their place. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1328 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 23. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (1207 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Bundestheater (Bundestheater Organisational Law – BTHOG) and the Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 1998 (1330 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17052	We shall now proceed to item 23 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Krüger was the first speaker to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17083	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I must say that I am missing the presence of a member of the government. Has the "chef" culture already failed so clearly that it – by the Chancellor I don't want to talk about, he never gives us the honour in cultural questions – also manifests itself in the absence of the Secretary of State for Art? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government template on the reorganisation of the Bundestheater has preceded an order to an operating consultancy company. The only order to this firm consulting company was: There's nothing to change! That is the decisive thing, and this is the dual needyness of this exclusion, which is, in fact, a sham outlay, which is nothing but a reorganisation, while maintaining all the old means. For how did the situation before the reform appear? – The Federal Chancellor has so far decided on the establishment of the individual theater directors. Among them was the Bundestheaterverband, and among them the individual stages. According to the government template, it is no different: The Federal Chancellor exercises the rights of shareholders in the holding company, the holding company is nothing but a company with limited liability, which has previously exercised the agents of the Bundestheaterverband, and below the individual stages rank as societies. In fact, it has not changed at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the reform is also to set up a business manager. You know, it is in line with a long-standing demand from the Court of Auditors to also use business executives. But what does this position look like? – The business manager has nothing to talk about, just like the previous business manager, who has already given it. The artistic director, the director, proposes the commercial director. Just a few days ago Holder cried triumphantly: I've already ordered my commercial director, already selected! In the event of disagreement in the management – i.e. between the business manager and the artistic managing director – the artistic managing director decides. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I like that, really good!]] That is why it is only that the hierarchy has been maintained and, in fact, the business manager has nothing to talk about. That is one of the points why we think that any will to design is lacking. There is no willingness to subtract the party policy, the politics of the government parties from the area of the Bundestheater. That is the decisive thing, because it is an anachronism, ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria the Federal Chancellor continues to decide who is the director at the individual stages. That's not the job of a Federal Chancellor! Show me a country in Europe or in the Western hemisphere where such a regulation is applied analogously!Unknown term type: "%s".? Show me that! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: France!]] It's the same with the federal museums. That's what we'll come to talk about tomorrow. What about the holding company? – Holding has all the rights, as it had before, and more. If you look at the section 4 of the government template, you will see what comprehensive rights the holding of the individual sub-companies has! For example: The appointment of business managers, auditing and determining the annual accounts – all of the lower companies – and even the decision to grant procura and commercial power and, you can hear and marvel, the rules for auditing and monitoring the management. – So all the power of holding, all power to the future stage director Dr. Springer! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, nothing has changed. The form of organization is another, but the old problems remain. The separation of power, about which the rector of the University of Applied Arts speaks, between party politics, government policy and stages, this separation of power has still not been carried out. It has only changed its legal form. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor and the State Secretary have actually proved no willingness to design. They have not dared to create a courageous administrative reform, a courageous reform in the sense of a release of the Bundestheater of possible measures of the Bundestheaterverband, now holding, or the Federal Chancellor. Such a solution has not taken place, and that is what we are all the more concerned about. Nothing's changed. The costs are increasing; the reform remains.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17154	Mr Cap has also been mentioned in the speech. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17183	Mr President. High house! I am totally different from my previous speaker. I believe that this is a successful template. I believe that it actually allows for more artistic autonomy, that it allows more self-reliance, that it enables more economic independence and more efficiency. These are all very important criteria, because this is about many, many tax shillings, and they should also be used efficiently, but at the same time the artistic autonomy should be preserved. There are many advantages associated with this model, for example, the breakdown from the establishment plan or the dissemination - often repeatedly demanded - from the one-year nature of the federal budget. This is very important because we have to enter into long-term contracts. Ask the head of the State Opera how important the distribution from the camera list is in the final effect. So I think that this is a successful solution, that we have really worked out this proposal, and that it will certainly ensure that Austrian cultural identity can be further developed and expanded. It is another element that I consider very important. As you know, there has been a very controversial debate about how to involve the audience, and falsely this has always been interpreted in such a way that it should ultimately lead to a censorship. This cannot be the intention of an audience involvement. But you have to ask yourself whether it is enough to vote only at the theatre box – or whether there should be something else. In addition, there has already been the setting-up of the public talks, only that was a optional institution. This template makes the optional institution a mandatory body and, of course, what makes the whole even more effective: It is institutionalized, it includes the houses. In the homes, representatives from the audience are directly elected. No one is interconnected, there are not any officials from any associations, institutes and associations, but it is directly chosen from among the audience. The audience forum, composed of four theatre visitors to the three houses, then selects a chairman in the constituent session, who, together with the artistic management of the respective houses, is truly obliged to carry out these audience discussions, which should contribute to the fact that artistic work can function more effectively, so that there are organizational comments there and there. I think that is a way towards social democracy, which must also have a cultural basis. I believe that this is essentially guaranteed. It is not about the pursuit of public officials, because these representatives are allowed to run for this audience forum once more, and then not anymore. There is no interconnection, but a direct participation of the audience. If there is a responsible action, then this can really be applied for the benefit of the houses, for the benefit of our cultural image, our cultural identity. Summa summarum is a successful template, and one can only hope that the implementation will comply with what the proposal promises.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17229	Mrs Dr Schmidt is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17250	Mr President. High house! I really cannot agree with the words of my previous speaker, who thought that this was a successful template, although I already say that the possibility of disseminating itself and thus the possibility of creating more self-responsibility for the theatre is a positive one. That was an old demand of the liberals. We have not presented such a solution in this form, but quite with this tendency. I do not want to be sure today whether it is possible to have made a company of my own for the theatre service now, whether it would not have been better to create a subsidiary. But that, I think, is not the core. From the trend I think this construction is not bad. First of all, however, it has not been possible to deal with all the questions raised by this construction, let alone solve them, but, second, we have also made false adjustments. As far as the open questions are concerned, for example, I quote from one of the newspapers: "More questions concern" – there's already a lot on the front line – "the building maintenance and the division of the premises in the Hanusch-Hof complex, but, of course, financing is still the main topic." It is also discussed – and I think that is an essential point – in what form the new collective agreements are to be negotiated. The individual houses want to have room for negotiation, the holding demands that they are only business agreements and lastly conclude contracts. - I don't think that's good. I do not think that such a course of action would be contrary to the intention of the proposal, namely to strengthen self-responsibilities. In addition to these open questions, which I mentioned earlier, one must also address the following, which has not been dealt with at all in the course of the negotiation of the proposal, although it is one of the causes of the ineffectiveness of the houses: the existing collective agreements. What bothers me, too, is that the current law has created a two-class society without dealing with the form in which those who fall into the new construction with the so-called well-acquired rights could have created reasonable transitional arrangements for entry into the new system, in order not to let them serve so to speak with their beneficents, while all those who are new to it are those who then get the new contracts and are worsened. Mr Khol knows that in our considerations, when we negotiated the political pyramid, we have tried to set a good example of the pension scheme. It wasn't as easy as you know. It was easy for us to enforce this, but it was not so easy for some of the government groups, including some Members of this House who always contest the privileges, to opt for the privilege in their option; and this concerns the Members on this side. This is only a detail at the edge, but a very symptomatic detail. We have hoped to provide an example of the remaining public service with our transitional arrangements, and now we have similar cases in the area of the Bundestheater. That is to say, one could have created a transitional arrangement for those concerned, where the age to which one can choose whether to change to the new system or to remain in the old one. – This has not happened, but the one who is being transferred have still their old federal theatre board, the next will get an ASVG-pension. I think this is serious, because there would have been an opportunity to find a more just solution, but it has been missed, for whatever reason. The current collective agreements include currencies, which may sound like pleasures, but are symptomatic and with a reason why the houses cannot be managed in a reasonable form. These special schemes are so succinct because they are special schemes for a special profession. If I become a stage worker, I know that I have to move different items back and forth. If that happens on the same floor, there are no special supplements. As soon as the transport goes over a floor, there is for a piano 260 S, for a harpalo 206 S, for a spinett there is only 103 S. And that is independent of how many people it wear. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Colleague! Have you ever worn a piano from one floor to another? That's a tough thing!]] Of course, this is a hard thing, but that is in itself a hard profession – I know that – and should therefore be properly paid. However, these kinkerlitzs are added, regardless of how many people work. If it's a heavy piano or a spinnet, then logically they'll take a lot of people for it. But each individual receives an allowance. Don't be angry, but these are curiousities that I think give a wrong signal! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: As long as you didn't wear a piano, I don't believe you!]] There are some scurriles at the stage workers. As soon as the worker wears a costume, for example, he gets 181 s extra. As soon as he's "dressed" with a kitten, as it is said, he'll get a piece of money, 92,30 p. No, these are kinkerlitzs! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's something beautiful!]] Usually, with such examples, one contests some funny event. But they are symptomatic, and I therefore think it is necessary to talk about them, because they lead to a point that is even more serious, namely the working time regulation. We know exactly how difficult it is to carry out samples and similar things with stage workers, because two shifts are carried out under the working time scheme. The first shift begins at seven o'clock and must end at 4:30 p.m., the second shift begins at 2.30 p.m. and ends at 23 o'clock. As soon as someone has to stay only one hour longer, for example, because the sample lasts longer, the second layer begins. That's crazy! There are theatres in which it is made different. That is why the Committee on Culture has organised two hearings with experts from abroad who have told us how it is being done in other countries. That made sense! – In Zurich, for example, there is another calculation period, and the overtime only occurs when this calculation period is exceeded. You can now talk about whether this should be a week, a month, or a year. These are the real problems of the theater! They also saw the artistic work because they cut the budget. One should have thought about it, but no thought was wasted on it. [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] Mr Khol! I will now come to your horse, the so-called audience forum. This audience forum is a smooth step back to the current prevailing practice. It must be said, however, that thanks to those who create culture, and in my opinion, we too have contributed a lot to that, nothing is left of this ominous advisory board of experts and audiences, which you originally wanted according to the pattern of your book. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Say the title, the price and the publisher!]] I don't know price and publisher, but I like to say the title he says: "My credo." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Molden Verlag, 250 S!]] I am grateful to you for revealing it so clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you!]] Nothing has remained of this audience council, I say with joy. In any case, this is something that you, as in other things, have not been able to achieve, even if you want to sell it as a success. The advisory board would have been a state-owned company. I do not know what to do with citizens, but it is your understanding of civil society. That's why you also say "citizen society" and not "citizens inner society". The audience forum, which has now come out, is also an evil one. This is bureaucratic, it is evocative and discriminatory. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's terrible!]] You don't take this seriously, and I think I'm sorry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! I'm not taking this seriously!]] I do not know how many colleagues have looked at how this is to be organized, how such a choice is at all achieved. It is only people who are allowed to participate in it and are actively entitled to vote, who have the right to vote in favour of the National Council. – Where is the colleague Amon? Where are the young, culturally enthusiastic people standing in the State Opera and in the Burgtheater at the standing place? At this age you spend a lot of time in the theatre, but these boys exclude you from the public talks! [[Abg. Smolle: Unheard!]] That's really a scandal, and I don't know if anyone even saw it. [[Abg. Smolle: Unheard!]] Foreigners, including EU citizens, are not allowed to participate, and therefore not because only those who have the right to vote are entitled to participate and are actively entitled to vote in the National Council, and - these ridicules are still to be done - have a subscription or are visitors to one of the theatres, with a card that must not be older than six months. [[Abg. Zweytick: Thank God they are not allowed to participate!]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Is that something bad!]] This is such ridiculousness that you should actually be ashamed to write such a thing into a law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I think this is an increase in Parliament, and it is also an increase by Mr Cap that he still praises it. - That you don't enjoy yourself! I don't understand you at all! To sell such a regulation as a close-up to the citizen is an advantage! That is, all young people who are not yet 18 years old are not allowed to talk with them at all. That's smooth discrimination! You are even committed to reducing the age of election, but an 18-year-old can only vote for an audience talk. You have to imagine that! This partnership, which you so praise, this new citizen society looks so that only the conversation with the public officials takes place. Mr Cap, I do not know why you believe that now, at once, public talks should take place. The opposite is true! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No!]] Because it says that it should be a public audience talk, but please excuse me, this is also a public event, but can anyone talk about it? Can anyone talk from the balcony? That means it's left to the participants whether you even involve someone. If you're lucky, that's gonna happen, but there's already twelve officers sitting there on the stage, first embossed for three years, when it goes well, for six years. In addition, only those who have previously received 25 declarations of support can agree at all. The Vereinsmeier Khol thus secures his clubmeier, and he then wants to sell it as an audience talk, because now all of a sudden we talk to officials who can be recorded for up to six years. That's the audience's participation at once? All the others are excluded! Twelve sitting outside, next door is the managing director. Do you know how this is happening right now? – In the future, they can talk like the officials! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Every session is public!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Right!]] Who cares when they talk about organizational processes, discuss marketing and card distribution or the "fulfilment of the cultural mission"? Do you know what's happening at audience calls? Have you ever been to one? – Now it is true that interested audiences who read in the program can go and talk to actors and the director. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's exactly what's going to be going on!]] This can no longer be after this presentation, and if you would have liked it, dear Joseph, and were concerned that this would not be all theatres, then you would have written into the law that every theater is obliged to hold audience talks twice a year. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Oh, yes!]] That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's inside, at least!]] You'd even have been given my approval for that. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What you're doing is to "breed functionaries" that seem to represent the audience. He speaks of being close to the citizen when his people – exactly counted – sit there, who say what is good and what is right. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] If this is your cultural understanding, then I must say, it does not surprise me that there is a cultural struggle here.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17566	The next speaker is Mr Franz Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17599	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, for an excitement as you just put it down, it's a little late. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] They have talked about the exclusion and about an old demand of the liberals. – But the liberals are not that old. Or do you mean the demand you made when you were at the "F"? What do you mean? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] As far as the collective agreements are concerned, I give you the right. This is an old failure, which was also requested by me relatively often and which the current General Secretariat has never brought together. But you said you wanted to take something away from the workers there... [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: No! I want to pay her well!]] Excuse me! Do you know how much a master who has worked for 25 years deserves there? – 16,000 S! And you want to take something away from that? The prank money, for example, or what else? So that's ridiculous, we don't want to talk about it. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Dr. Cap and Dr. Novotny.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser:... just an actor!]] Yes! We're not with the federal army, you can order elsewhere! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The transfer of the Bundestheater into a private-law form of society is in principle – and no matter how that happened – something essential. I can tell you that the enlargement negotiations have been conducted on an objective basis, very consensual and on very good opinions. So the situation was wonderful. The whole thing also took place – because it was mentioned very often in the discussion – under the pre-text that no child-moving takes place. That is, the state continues to confess to its theaters, and that is already more than many other states – I would say: most – do for their theatres. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two points were essential: first of all, securing the status quo through adequate budgeting of the theatre and second, the fixing of the expected performance in the cultural order and its – and on it I value – adequate mediation! The scope for action of the individual houses, both financially and artistically, has been substantially expanded by this – we have heard it more often today. The assignment of responsibility is more than one believes. If a director knows who he's playing theatre for, where he's going to get the money and how to manage, that's an essential corrective – exactly, Mr. Cap! – for the Austrian theatre landscape. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] Believe me, that's more than you dared hope. Transparency of the cost structure: Finally, there is cost truth! What's the cost in this house? That wasn't clear so far. Someone in the General Secretariat may have known, but he never said so. Access to the ticket sale of the houses is also essential, because there was an eternal lamento about that it does not work. So people often ordered cards in Graz, for example, and then they didn't get them. With me are piles of letters in which people complained about the ticket sale. This too is now in the access of the houses, so this will change radically. [[Abg. Mother: (Ironian) Exactly! Now it's gonna be "better"!]] No camera lysics and storage capacity: Every single director can finally be a businessman. Faith You're telling me: Those directors who are at work right now have to do it! You want that. It means that funds for sponsoring can be made available. I remind the Secretary of State that the director of the opera in Zurich is 8 per cent of the total budget from sponsoring funds. – So hope up, dear Directors, now it applies! The requirements for the directors thus become bigger and wider. A word to the audience advisory board, then the speaking time is already at an end: I have never mentioned this, but in the negotiations I described my position. I would like to say very clearly: All that was said in this room today is a Sambucus nigra, that is, a holler. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] In fact, it was just hot air that was spoken about. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: The council is hot air!]] – In contrast to the middle distribution at the houses, to the pressure to contract the houses, to the workshop problems or to the right of entry of the holding, one can really give this discussion contribution in this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17736	The next item is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17779	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I begin very professionally and read three amendments before they get into oblivion again. [[Quoted print version removed]] We aim to achieve equality between the people's operas. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the audience forum!]] It's the audience forum, I'm still coming. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What do you have against participation?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The difference lies in the fact that the "Bundestheaterverband" is lost. This was apparently not accessible in the preliminary discussions, but perhaps now it is because we have made a four-party request. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The red brothers wanted that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Schmidt makes it possible!]] The fifth party has even gotten away from us. [[the speaker points to the empty places of the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They went to the theater!]] I come back to my actual comments and, of course, to Mr Morak's comments: It seems that new times have arrived in the theatre, as the theater directors mainly longed to become merchants. [[Call the ÖVP:Auch!]] Yes, too! It has always been mentioned in all speeches – and this does not seem to be a coincidence – in the first place the economics and the outbreak of camera music and stresses how efficient one can now work. The Liberal Forum and the Greens are putting forward joint amendments here, although we are probably based on different ideas in the basic philosophy, but we agree on these changes. No one has proved it to me so far – and no one can prove it, neither has the Secretary of State done it, nor the club members of the government parties or the representatives of Cap or Morak – why this should be economic. In order to overcome the one-year budget, it is truly not necessary. There are, of course, fund structures within the federal administration, for example in the social sector or in other areas, which must have their nature after several years of long-term conduct. So that would be possible without a doubt. It is also possible to increase the scope for action of the individual houses or to increase the extent of partial justice, which is already possible. In those areas where there have been outlays, for example in social administration, but also in other areas, everything has become more expensive. It was removed from the opposition control and submitted to a red-black spadell. Where efficiency is to lie, it has never been possible to show up. I would like to see a study that shows that something has become more efficient before you vote in favour of the high-level of efficiency in the cultural field in the past. I also lack the belief that in the artistic field new freedoms and great scope for action are coming when these are linked to supervisory councils that are ordered. How will this be done in this government? – It will run again according to the two-eye principles, the red and the black. [[Abg. Wabl: Rotauge and Schwarzauge!]] That's to be expected. All in all, I believe that this organisational reform, which could certainly have been discussed, is actually being conducted instead of a discussion on the further development of art and culture, including the theatre landscape in this country. It also pains me that the status quo is apparently recorded, since, while the Burgtheater is pleased to mention contemporary literature, it is obvious that a very traditional and conventional repertoire music theatre is performed in the State Opera and the claim to others is not even made. These quota considerations – the "dream" of the theater director, once to be such a real merchant – are thought to be, I fear, the state operasophie, after which full utilization is the largest and contemporary rather delicate, may be transferred to all houses. I hope I'm taught a better person. A big throw isn't that. To the public advisory board, Dr. Schmidt has already said everything necessary. It might have added that, apart from the Austrians and the 18-year-olds, only those who do not gnaw or fall asleep in the audience with a bag of popcorn and, if they do fall asleep, do not snorkel out loud. I'm very disappointed with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e17979	The three amendments tabled by Mrs Petrovic, tabled by Mr Schmidt/Petrovic, Mr Schmidt/Petrovic and Mr Schmidt/Cap/Khol/Petrovic, are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18003	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say that the previous administrative merger has worked very well in the form of the Bundestheaterverband and expressly commend the work of the Bundestheaterverband, because in the past, the Bundestheater were the representative states of Austria and contributed significantly to the cultural image of Austria. However, I see a number of advantages in the current exclusion. With the splitting into four GesmbHs or into three stage companies and a theatre service company that is run by two managing directors – an artistic and a commercial one that has already been said – there is in all cases more personal responsibility of the respective director for his budget. Each director decides autonomously in his field, and that is certainly a great plus and a great advantage, although I would like to warn against excessive expectations that the two critical cost points, namely pensions and technology, will succeed in getting under control, since the objective of a limited liability society, namely to achieve profits, can never be achieved with the public authorities, provided that they are to fulfil their education mandate. In my opinion, it is nevertheless a good construction that according to § 7 para. 2 of the Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz the companies will receive a base fee of around 1.8 billion schillings each year with which they can operate, and that in addition, according to § 7 para. 3 to the theatres if the money is not sufficient despite economic, economical and appropriate behaviour. In future, the State will not get away from its responsibility. Unfortunately, I have to regret - I have to say - that the advisory board did not like in its bureaucratic version, but only got a different name, namely "public forum", and that a populist solution was found instead of the bureaucratic version with the senior councils and federal youth councillors. I am very concerned that this could be an instrument suitable for the practice of censorship. Since I am in principle opposed to censorship, I am also opposed to any censorship authority if the "public forum" instrument should have this objective. I justify this my concern with the construction in § 16, which says: "Consistency of the audience talks are in particular the following areas: 1. The fulfilment of the cultural mission". I read in § 2, which is to be understood by the cultural policy mission, namely the "care of classical German-speaking and international theatre art and culture", the "promoting contemporary and innovative developments with particular regard to Austrian art and its strengthening in international comparison" and the "designation of the plans in the direction that they include an innovative and pluralistic offer in form and content as well as artistically risky productions and take into account the aspect of art communication especially among children and young people". This seems to me to be in contradiction with the tasks of this audience forum. ==References== In fact, 7 says: "The audience forum has no jurisdiction in questions falling into the artistic autonomy of stage societies." I think it would have been possible to leave it in the informal form of the public talks so far. The establishment of this potential censorship authority is a little saddened by the fact that the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, which is in principle well-appointed, will essentially carry out its tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18054	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18084	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! One can, of course, already judge in the past what will come about. As it will actually come, I think nobody in the end knows. But I am convinced that any novelties which reach a majority in this House will be an improvement in the current status quo. I therefore welcome this law, which creates new structures, which, in particular, contributes to ensuring the artistic offer and the creative development of the stages. This seems very important to me, since it is not possible to decouple work in the artistic field from general socio-political developments. It is necessary to provide for framework conditions for those working in this field to adapt to new circumstances so that they can fulfil their social mission. [[Abg. Wabl: You are the Morak of the Wine Farmers!]] Mr Wabl! I'm sure you'll understand because we know each other very well. Above all, strengthening the autonomy and increasing the scope for action of the directors should be a great incentive for change. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wabl.]] That seems to me very important. It means a further opening and greater transparency, and it is of course also an incentive, another form of motivation that can already be taken into account. It will now be possible to be sold out daily with quality – I wish. But the opportunities, the opportunities are new. That is why it is now up to the directors to think economically, to manage it and not to manage it. It should be noted that the state continues to invest 2 billion schillings per year in the theatre. It is precisely because all Austrians, through their taxpayers, contribute to the preservation of the Bundestheater, it is important to establish a participatory element. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Mr Kier! In my opinion, this is also taken into account in the creation of the audience forum. The audience forum consists of twelve members – which has been mentioned more often and also explained in detail – who are directly elected by the audience of the Bundestheater, regardless of age. It's essentially the age of election. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You don't want to let the youth talk! And just no excuse!]] Our opinions differ, Mrs Schmidt, as chairman of the Committee on Culture. This gives every Austrian the possibility of democratic participation, and it also ensures – and this seems very important to me – that it is not the issue of a cultural arteries. The task of this forum will be, among other things, to control the fulfilment of the cultural mission. The cultural policy mandate states that the performance of guest games on other stages, at festivals or other venues, especially in the federal states, is aimed at a demand which I, of course, fully support as a South Styrian Member. Especially in my constituency, the southern Styria, the various initiatives have been launched in the areas of cultural life in recent years. A modern cultural policy must support and promote this expansion of cultural life, which is as important for tourism as for the cultural identity of the regions. I believe that the exclusion of the Bundestheater and its reorganisation – and I would like to join the statements of our clubman – is a centenary law. This will finally take into account a long-term demand of the Austrian People's Party, namely to withdraw the Bundestheater and to place it on a private economic basis. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18153	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18174	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one summarizes the opinions of the various parties on this presentation, it can be said that the FPÖ – which is not here now – has communicated about Mr Krüger, who was still present at that time, that the distribution is not a breakdown, nothing has changed, nothing has got better. The Liberals have said that it is basically positive and right in the trend. Some things, in their opinion, are not all right. The Greens, in turn, have said that it is not at all necessary that there should be a breakdown. Before this bandwidth, which has been developed in the assessment, I can say that the presentation is obviously a good one if one says nothing has changed at all, and the other that it is not necessary at all. So it can't be such a bad template. I would also like to agree with this proposal, although, like Mr Posch, I would rather agree with a paragraph that is contained in it. As far as the audience forum is concerned, Mr Morak spoke of a hot air. I don't know exactly what he meant. However, I remember your contribution to the Committee, Mr Khol, where you spoke about the "arm's-length principle" in England. The idea behind this is that politics should withdraw a bit, let the experts on the matter and, so to speak, be advised by them. – That’s good and interesting, this model is also available in other areas. But the experts you're talking about are those experts who obviously own theater subscriptions. - Okay. Good. But that doesn't mean they must have been in the theater. They have the subscriptions and are thus experts in theatre issues. They may have been in the theatre once within the last half year and are experts; because they were once in the theatre, they are experts. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Or they know someone who gives them a card!]] - Or you know someone who gives you a card. If someone has a brother or sister who has been in the theater once, he is an expert on theatre questions. But I also believe that this is not the essential question, but I have found the explanatory statement interesting. In so far as I also believe that it is a good template, but I would have liked the audience forum to be an essential one. Finally, because it fits well again: Furthermore, Mr State Secretary, I believe that the Vienna Philharmonic should also include women.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18212	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18233	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate takes place in an extremely pleasant and cultivated and high-level atmosphere. The debate about the Bundestheater has had the effect of a political group withdrawing from this House entirely. – Oh, if only it remained forever! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think we should fix a point this evening: Austria is a cultural country. The Bundestheater is an identity-building institution for Austria. We are taking a bold, important step today to release this cultural institution into a great, financially sound freedom, and we expect these theatres to continue their great achievements for our culture in this new legal form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would have been better for me if we had been able to eliminate two mistakes of beauty that the law has, because it bears a compromise character. In my opinion, the holding company is essential. There are three theatre companies, three stage companies, one roof, a so-called parent company, the holding company that performs the ownership functions. This holding replaces the current Bundestheaterverband. Mrs Petrovic and Mrs Schmidt. I am very grateful that you have succeeded in verbally removing this Bundestheater association from the presentation. I did not succeed in six weeks of negotiations. You often need expert assistance. Thank you very much! Now the Bundestheaterverband is also removed from the law, and the holding company has only six to ten employees. That is why this "genuine of Loch Ness", which has caused so many artists to despair, which has triggered so many theater crises in this country – I remember the "Tannhäuser" wigs for 450 000 S and the crisis around Mr. Karajan – is defeated. That was all the Federal Theatre Association, and I hope that belongs to the past. Now the market is in place, now there is responsibility, now there are significant cost points, significant successes. I believe that in the future we have protected artistic freedom much better than before in this Bundestheater work. Public forum tag. I think that's great. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have remembered at least the old-father Bruno Kreisky on this point, who once spoke of the fact that we can see a flood of society with democracy. The Conservatives, Mr Cap, are always at the forefront of progress – and the Liberals and the Greens will already realize that democracy is a very good solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Schmidt! What are you afraid of? I understand that the artists concerned and the art managers concerned do not like to put themselves in a public discourse. I understand. For an artist and for a theater director, it is most important that anyone pays, and then he can do what he wants. That's artistic freedom – I think it's great. I would do the same in their place. That then the art critics say, terrible, there are others who have an opinion and can represent it, then our monopoly is gone, the gentlemen in the gaskets, the successors of Hanslick, you have to see, I understand all that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Schmidt]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that you are there that the great Liberal Forum, the "partner" who speaks of a partner society, is against democracy, I do not understand. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: operetta democracy!]] I don't understand at all. I believe that we have taken a very good course with this. I have so well in mind the words of our Federal President today in the Federal Assembly, who spoke of the "citizen society". On the same day, this National Council is taking a step in this direction to give our Federal President the right to invite concerned citizens, to take their own case into their own hands and to venture a public discourse. Anyone can talk with you, everyone can talk to you. He or the chairman – perhaps it will be a chairman – of this audience forum can finally vote in the Supervisory Board – and this is the big difference to the public talks, Mrs Petrovic and Mrs Schmidt, sitting in the Supervisory Board with a seat and voice, and the theater directors must present themselves with the results of the public talks. You will then have to explain why they have made the Burgtheater available to Mr. Mühl. If a theater director decides this is his right, but he must justify himself to the public and to the taxpayer. If he doesn't want to, he's not a democrat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we're going to release the theater into a new freedom today. We wish all artistic directors, all commercial directors a great deal of success! For all of us, I hope that these stages will continue to be part of our being, part of our hopes and part of our joy in life.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18308	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18335	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to thank the Klobobmann Khol, thank you very much, not for the levelling contribution, Mr Khol, but for the heightened "democracy policy level". [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This thanks come from the heart!]] Now we know what you understand under civil society. I deliberately say "citizen society", the President of the Federal Republic today has not brought the "citizen" over the lips, only the "citizens". Even with the citizens and the children... [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] We know that now. We thank you for that. We also know what you understand under the flood of democracy. If you understand the audience forum under a flood of democracy, I have to say: This is Stone Age Democracy, my colleague. This is Stone Age Democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Aha! You're afraid of that! Before the "firestone democracy"!]] If you really wanted to democratize it, You need to think more about it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is a completely clamped construction – clamped! – which also does not fit well with the commercial law which we have just praised in connection with holding. Do you know how the audience is voting in the theater? – With the feet and with the cards, but not with the audience forum, do you understand me? That's not good. If you want a dialogue with people who go to the theatre, and you try to institutionalize it as you did, then you are a formalist, but not a democrat. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18413	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, the contributions reflect the different attitudes to the federal theatre distribution which has been expressed during the discussion of this law. One of the basic objectives we are trying to achieve with this theater reform and probably with the best possible means available to us at the moment is that we want to ensure the excellent quality that is currently being achieved at our federal theatres in the future. This is an organizational form that is used internationally in the theatre world. I remember that all major German stages are GesmbHs. Even in many other parts of the world, big stages are GesmbHs. We do not invent an organization form for "Theater-Neu", but we apply an experience that has been given internationally for a long time to establish an organizational form, tailored to our federal theatre, also with us. It's not about disconnecting the theater from the state either. There is a clear commitment by the state to remain responsible for this theatre. The law also mentions a basic sum which must in all cases be available to the theatre world. This too is new, it has not yet been established in any law that a minimum sum, a minimum equipment is legally defined. I think that this is a major improvement in the previous situation, Mrs Petrovic, because it ensures that quality is safeguarded accordingly. What are the benefits in the future? – A very large structural advantage can be seen in the fact that the burden on pensions is removed from the Federal budget and that they are slowly transferred to an ASVG budget, and thus a discharge of the Federal Budget, from which I assume that they remain in the sum of art, so that we obtain structural funds that ensure the quality of this theatre in the long term. I also believe that the construction of the holding is a very essential prerequisite for the success of this huge organization, because there must also be a representative of the owner, an order of ownership which, if it were to be directly linked to the ministry, would again require its own department. We all know that the efficiency of an administration within the ministry is not the same as if this administration is also involved in a private-law organization. – That was our thoughts on this point. The second task was to strengthen artistic freedom, i.e. the self-responsibility of the artistic director. We have done this in this law quite consciously and with targeted measures. This means that policy is further extended from day-to-day business, but cannot escape responsibility for the whole. This, in turn, means that in the day-to-day business we have achieved a much greater freedom of choice by the directors and have given the directors a free space in the actual development of the financial performance. This reluctance is a very important facilitation for the planning of the game, and I believe that there is substantial progress in this. To the audience forum, as the most controversial views have come back to this day, I would like to say only the following: There are currently public talks at all Bundestheaters. This form of the audience forum is nothing but an institutionalisation of this audience discussion. That is, the audience forum itself has no other task – read the law! – as the organisation of these audience talks. These public talks are currently being conducted. They only take place on a voluntary basis, organized by the directors. From now on, every director is involved in an institute and must conduct these public talks. He cannot choose his audience, but it is an organization that must fulfil an obligation, namely twice a year, to continue to hold these public talks – which, as has already been said, are taking place now. Nothing else is the task; only the organization of these conversations. One of these representatives has the power of representation in the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. May. Peter: Institutional audiences! Now I understand!]] What can this audience forum decide? – In essence, it cannot decide at all, it must only be a forum for discussion, there must be no recommendations and there must be no censorship, as it is always claimed, but it is a dialogue with art. I can also expressly assure you that we have removed interference in artistic matters from the public forum's task area and have ensured that no – even in the remotest – approaches of censorship are possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: That's what it's called: for cruising!]] One question was essentially raised, namely the transfer of assets. [[Call the ÖVP: Time!]] Mrs Schmidt said there was no clear transfer of assets. I would like to refer to § 5: The historical building substance remains in the possession of the federal government, and the utility substance remains essentially with the houses they actually manage now. – That is, there is a clear separation, it is unacceptable from the law. This also makes it quite clear who has to bear the burden on the conservation of the substance. I believe that it is a law that ensures the quality of this excellent theatre and in the future ensures that we have houses of international reputation in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18506	Mrs Dr Schmidt has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18539	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Secretary of State has just said that the only task of the audience forum is to organise the public talks. I'm actually correcting § 16 para. Cite 4 first sentence, for it reads: The audience forum together with the respective artistic director of the stage society per calendar year and stage company will hold at least two public meetings announced in the game plan. - Quote. That is, the audience forum is holding talks. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Public!]] However, it also has to organize them before. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Together!]] The Secretary of State has meant that it would only be organized, and this is incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18588	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the votes. First of all, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1330 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schmidt, Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled amendments. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Dr. Cap, Dr. Khol, Dr. Schmidt and Dr. Petrovic. I shall therefore first of all vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the amendments and then on the remaining parts not yet agreed. We are the first to vote on the amendment tabled by Dr. Cap, Dr. Khol, Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic, which refers to Article 1(1) first sentence. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval give a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 1(2) para. 5 refers. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this request to rise from the seats. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I may immediately refer to Article 1(2). Let us vote on the last sentence of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this version to be a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Finally, MEPs Dr. Schmidt, Dr. Petrovic, tabled an amendment which includes the deletion of § 16 in Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deletion of § 16 para. Pronounce 1 to a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 (16) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall vote next on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt, of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This was accepted by the majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those Members of the House who also give their approval at third reading give a sign. – I notice: The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 24. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1208 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Federal Sports Institutions – BSEOG and Federal Law amending the Federal Sports Promotion Act (1333 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18683	We are now negotiating item 24 of the agenda. First of all, Mr Grollitsch has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18707	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol turned his back on the speaker.]] Dr. Khol! Say hello to God! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good evening!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you back?]] Your front is more important. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's at the sexism line!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You missed me a few minutes ago when only a few representatives of our group were in the hall. They have used the absence of my group to insult us in a non-democratic way, and in our absence the issues have been much easier, more useful and more cultivated. I can tell you that we have resolved the question now in the Constitutional Committee wherever you were not present. Maybe that's why it went there very objectively and soberly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the beginning, the liberals' demand for privatisation was for areas that the state did not manage properly. Extraordinary experts have discovered in 1993 the expedient use of the low-priced federal sports facilities and have fully announced a private reorganisation. Then a lot of money was spent on an extensive INFORMATION-Company Advisory Study. After an extensive pause of thought and a customary delay of time, the government took up the privatisation idea of the liberals. It was followed by a so-called prekarium. – For non-consecrations: This is a bit loan that can be withdrawn at any time. It is meant that one has asked St. Christoph and the Kitzsteinhorn to the ÖSV and has also offered the Spittrberg to the Austrian Aero Club asking for the loan. Now we have a BSEOG. Mr Schieder has made the Association for Cattle Disease in the Committee, not my ability, he has meant the same abbreviation. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, I said: the same abbreviation!]] I am afraid that the law contains a perishable virus for Austrian sport. This will show the future. However, I would like to limit the fact that we do not yet know this BSE in detail. If one has observed the custodial and the negotiation of the last hour at government level, one has to expect inadvertently amendments that might affect the meaning of this law, as we are accustomed to. We will then decide, dear clubmates, how we want to behave. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The cause of this law – and that is to be said openly – can be seen in the 1996 sports report: 180 million Schilling grants needed the federal sports facilities, 228 000 nights there. This is quite a remarkable number; the quotas have increased. If you convert this, the taxpayer has cost every nocturnal per recording in a home 800 s. The fact that with this money the Bundessportheime has been organized in such a way that they can only be granted against request and now, by means of a law that we are to decide, are freely given by the Chancellor to any associations and associations that are probably close to him, that is sad. We'll be right, and my colleague, Grabner, I'm sure...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18812	I call for the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18827	We will soon hear that this solution is good for sports. I allow myself to doubt this, and ask Mr. Grabner's Enlightenment: Why was BSE necessary at all? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18857	Mr Grollisch! They spoke of an amendment, but they did not bring it in. I would ask you to do that. The next speaker is Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18882	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grollitsch expected 800 s per night. I can say that the admission of athletes to federal sports homes has been financed from the Federal Sports Fund. It was, of course, covered by the law that the athletes could live there cheaper. This will also be the case in the future, for which the German sports homes have been built. I'm allowed to say thank you. In recent weeks, we have passed some very important laws for sports here in plenary, whether it is the gambling law, which gives the certainty that 420 million schilling will be given to sport in this year, whether it be the tent festivals – or today this law. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law on the Reorganisation of the Federal Sports Institutions and the Federal Law amending the Federal Sports Promotion Act allow the establishment of a limited liability company, with the federal government remaining a 100% ownership. This will allow for more efficient and transparent promotion of top and performance sports and, in the course of further training, in particular in schools, educational institutions or universities and in the field of broadband, while at the same time reducing the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The company has the primary task of maintaining the operation of the federal sports facilities, of ensuring the rental of the sports facilities and the accommodation, and of providing food and sports care for guests according to business aspects. It has also adopted guidelines for the use of sports facilities by persons and institutions worthy of support in the interests of high-quality and high-performance sports, sports education and training, particularly at schools and other educational institutions, such as the universities I have already mentioned, as well as broadband. These Directives lay down the principles for the award of accommodation in a priority list and the specific definition of the group of persons to which the reduced charges must be calculated. The normal rate shall be determined separately for each sports establishment, as it forms the basis for the calculation of the grants and determines the amount of reduced charges for the users. Ladies and gentlemen! The grant of the federal government to the normal rate difference is limited to 37.5 million schilling per calendar year. Whether that's enough for the sport will still be discussed. There will be no changes to existing service contracts. However, in the event of a new entry, the staff shall be hired after the ASVG. Mr State Secretary! I would ask you, if it has not yet been done, to speak to the entire staff of the Bundessportheime and to inform them of the redesign. Nine sports facilities are expected to be at the earliest with 1. In January 1999, the company was transferred to the property of the company. The Bundessportschule Spittrberg was already transferred to the Aero-Club in February of this year, the Bundessportheime Kitzsteinhorn and St. Christoph to the Austrian Schiverband for use. Ladies and gentlemen! This is because these associations have already concentrated on these institutions. By amending this law, the property of the aforementioned sports venues is transferred to the company, which then enters into the contract of use concluded between the Federation and the Aero Club and the Austrian Schiverband. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not a use contract, but a prekarium!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You have no idea about sports, so don't talk to me! Get out! They were now God does not know how long. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Don't be so strict!]] Mr Moser! It was quiet as long as the "F" wasn't there. Now they're back, they don't know, but there's a lot of talking to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has now succeeded in achieving, with a positive government template, which, in cooperation with Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann and our coalition partner, has been established, that the safeguarding and expansion of the top-level sport and the wide-ranging sport for the future will be possible. As a sports spokesperson of the SPÖ, I must say that this law is of great importance for sport.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18945	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e18987	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged calls in plenary.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The Bundessportsanstalts are indeed indispensable facilities for Austrian sport, and I have been able to convince myself in recent months on several visits to these institutions that you are in good condition through the bank and have sports facilities that are extremely important for our sport and have to be preserved by our athletes. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Karlheinz! But you didn't visit her as often as your countryman, the Bertram hunter?! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!]] The problem with these institutions was simple and simple, as was the case with previously discussed institutions of the Federal Government, that the close corset of the laws of federal officials does not allow the flexibility that such a company needs with accommodation and catering as well as seasonal fluctuations in utilization and so on. [[Abg. May. Peter: All of this is not planned!]] The Federal Law for Federal Servants is too narrow. In the future, it will be easier to increase the efficiency of management and thus help the federal government to save money without having to limit the performance of athletes. It is important to take this into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The distribution is carried out in the form of a GesmbH, which remains the property of the federal government. This is a sports policy decision that we have made in this way, because we believe that although the law provides for a sale to third parties as a possibility for the Federal Government, it is only possible if the sports policy objectives defined by the law are complied with and are still guaranteed and it does not result in a hotel operation with sports facilities for potential users. [[Abg. May. Peter: Is that something inappropriate?]] In this case already, since these facilities are to be maintained by athletes at reasonable conditions and are not available for well-known hobby athletes. However, the law also provides that this society can be transferred to the Bundessportsorganisation, for it is and should be our objective that, if we reach an agreement on this, the sport will lead these institutions in the sense of sport, but according to the requirements of this law itself as far as possible. This will be negotiated with the Federal Sport Organisation. It should also be possible to transfer the management of individual sports associations. This has already happened in the way of this prekarium to the Aero Club or to the ÖSV. This was also useful, since these are three institutions which are designed precisely for the sports of these associations, and it makes sense that these associations themselves run them. In this context, I must make a small amendment which will clarify the possibility of the federal or social award and the transfer of management to either the BSO or to sports associations. [[Quoted print version removed]] It is important to mention in this context perhaps that the tariffs for the athletes should be maintained, so that the beneficial use of the facilities for athletes is still possible, but that they are converted to a subject promotion. This means that the athlete listed in these directives – Mr Grabner mentioned it briefly – is the recipient and no longer the institution. In other words, there is a grant for every consideration of a eligible sportsman, so that he only has to pay the lower rate himself, but the establishment does not receive the grants with 37.5 million schillings per year. It is also important that there is a Supervisory Board in this company, which is also intended to draw up the guidelines for use. It represents essentially all the representations of sport, both at government level and the sports organisations themselves, i.e. the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and the Federal Sports Organisation. In my view, this will also ensure that these facilities can continue to be used in the sense of sport in the future. Mr State Secretary! Finally, I would like to thank you and the President of the Federal Sport Organisation for the constructive negotiations. I am convinced that this law will provide a very important body for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19118	The amendment, which Mr Head has read, is properly tabled, signed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19142	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! It shall be as far as: The important federal sports centres are being distributed. We will hopefully be able to not – as forecast in 1998 – write plenty of 130 million schilling on loss. Why has this not been done before? Where was the problem of not taking such a reasonable action before? – Beautiful is the explanation in the explanatory statement/general section. I quote from lack of time very little, in total it proves that – you should read it! – the State is not in a position to operate a service: "In addition, according to the federal pay schedule, there are differences in income that are not eligible for benefits (for example, kitchen assistants may be able to obtain higher fees than a young chef), success-oriented pay components are missing to the full." You should really read it through. This is a merciless account of what the state administration cannot do. That is why this exclusion should in principle be seen as positive. I am not particularly pleased that in § 3 the availability of the shares becomes a "doorhouse" according to the motto, first one makes the GesmbH, then to determine immediately who gets past Parliament's shares. It would have been cleaner and clearer to submit immediately the request to remove the German sports homes and to hand them over to the Federal Sports Organisation or to whoever. This would have been a clear decision that the House could have approved in this form. Nevertheless, I think this is a good thing. We save losses and bring better performance. Why didn't you just do it earlier?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19186	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19207	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We too will agree to the exclusion. However, I would like to point out that it is simply not right to call the promotion of 37.5 million schilling as a subject promotion. This is not a subject promotion, as it is in the end not the sportsman himself, but the "sporting facility" institution. If this is a subject promotion, you would have to pay the individual sportsman the difference costs, and he could then choose a sports centre or a group he wants to participate in or not. In this form it is not a subject promotion, it is an indirect promotion, and ultimately it remains with the promotion of objects. And I don't think that makes sense. I have already started talks with Mr Kopf. He has promised me that we will deal with this issue. For I am in favour of actual subject promotion and hope that, when it comes to actual subject promotion, the sports venues also feel the pressure to improve their quality offer. For at present it is true that not everyone or any woman, even if she is integrated into the eligible sports associations, can actually claim or use a sports venue, not because the adaptations, i.e. access to the individual federal sports venues, are still not guaranteed, and especially in recent years the initial tendency to make these sports venues barrier-free has once again left a piece – whatever the reason for this. However, as long as the Federation is in possession of this object, it is invited and obliged to make these adaptations to the Bundessports institutions more quickly, in the sense of the gender equality provision that we decided tomorrow exactly a year ago, so that they can really fulfil their mission. We shall vote in favour of this request, as has been said. However, I will continue to pay attention to the fact that it does not come to such an extent as to shift responsibility to the Gesmbh. The Federation still has a lot to do, and I will ask for it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19245	The next speaker was Mr Löschnak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19267	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In contrast to Mr Grollitsch, Austrian sport welcomes this bill and thus the possibility to operate federal sports facilities themselves. I've already been on the 26th. On this subject, it was possible to give a detailed opinion on the subject in plenary session. So today I can limit myself to a few sentences and repeat in the core what I am on 26th. In May 1998, the Austrian sport had said that three premises had to be observed. First: It is necessary to ensure that the promotion objective is preserved, i.e. that the federal sports facilities must primarily serve sport. Secondly, It must be ensured that efficient management can also achieve cost savings, i.e. in sum, sport must win through it. And thirdly, It must be ensured that no abuse can happen with the federal sports institutions, i.e. the funding must not be used incorrectly. Therefore, the BSO has specified its ideas for the acquisition of the operation of the federal sports facilities. We handed over a 17-point paper to the Secretary of State and we got an appointment for next week. I hope that we can speed up the discussions on this transfer and come to a conclusion as soon as possible so that the criticism of Mr Peter, namely that it was too late, is not appropriate at least for that part that can be executed. I hope, in the sense of Austrian sport, that you can give us praise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19310	I call Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19331	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My group colleague and, in part, my previous speakers have presented the matter very precisely. Of course, my colleague Karlheinz Kopf has presented this matter not only precisely, but also excellently negotiated it. I should like to congratulate him very warmly and I am pleased that this result has been achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I can take a short look and give you at least two minutes that we can spend longer in bed tonight. [[Complaints and bravails of the Agg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Our federal sports facilities play an important role in Austrian top sports. In particular, they enjoy a great international reputation. The dissemination requires enormous efforts from those responsible. The latte is very high for the operators, for the future bosses. But you're going to skip this latte. We ensure the continued existence of our good institutions and thus sporty success in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Especially in recent years, very successful athletes have been trained in these facilities. As a Lower Austrian, you allow me to mention briefly the great achievements that have been done in the Federal Sports Centre in South City. Great athletes such as in the field of cycling in Zwelberger, Königshofer, Zadrobilek or Luttenberger, at the Fächtern Wendt and Ludwig or in the field of tennis sports Thomaspattern, Alexander Antonitsch, Horst Skoff, Barbara Paulus and many more were trained in Maria Enzersdorf in the south city and have become internationally successful athletes. Let us not forget our women's handball team, which is also one of the most successful in the world. Since 1980 120 beds have been booked in the south city. A total of 2 160 athletes were cared for during this period. I congratulate the responsible person and thank him for her commitment and the achievements they have provided in their field. I wish for the future not only sport but also economic success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19392	The Secretary of State has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19413	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments. The aim was to preserve these federal sports facilities in sport, not to privatise them, and thus to develop a new competitive relationship with the already well-developed hotel industry in Austria, because sports should continue to be the main beneficiaries of these facilities. Secondly, it has been a matter of finding a form of organisation which is characterised by cost transparency and cost efficiency, and of ensuring that subject promotion is possible in the future. I can briefly correct you, Mrs Haidlmayr. The 37,5 million schilling mentioned above are purely subject promotion because the difference between the tariff and the normal tariff is now directly deducted. This means that the sports club, who is looking for it, refers directly to the promotion in order to be able to pay the normal rate. This also applies to the individual sportsman. In addition, investments of 55 million Schilling are also being made in these federal sports facilities. I should like to point out that, for ten years now, all General Rehabilitations have been carried out from the point of view of people with disabilities. Such efforts are demonstrated by the fact that the institutions are essentially also available to the disabled sports weeks. In principle, it is important to make a commitment to Austrian sport and to secure these top sports facilities for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19449	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1333 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Löschnak and Mr Comrades, which is based on Article 1(2). 4 Z 2 and § 20 refers. Since there is only one amendment tabled, I shall proceed in such a way as to refer to the draft law, the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of this amendment, Head/Dr. To allow the vote to be taken after deletion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, as I have described them, give their approval to this proposal, to stand up from the seats. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also support this draft law at third reading show this by a sign of approval. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. That's what we've done with the agenda. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19504	I declare that at today's sitting, Amendments Nos 835/A to 839/A have been tabled. Questions 4644/J to 4675/J were also raised. Finally, a request from the honourable Member is Mag. Helmut Peter, 35/JPR, was brought to the President of the National Council. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-08-020-XX-NRSITZ-00134_d7e19534	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingldie's session is unpunishedly distant. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Thursday, 9. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
