ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1822	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and open the 122. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 120. Meeting of 13. May has remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies; it is therefore considered approved. The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1850	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Hermann Mentilauf has failed to exercise his mandate. In addition, the Federal Electoral Authority informed that instead of Deputy Ing. May. Erich Schreiner Mr Josef Trenkin was appointed the National Council. Since Mr Josef Trenkaber is ill and has been apologised for today's meeting, his fishing observation will be brought back at a later date. In this sense, I declare that, for today's sitting, Members Trenk, Mag, have been reported as preventing. Chief, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Kiermaier, Dr. Mertel, Dr. Pittermann and Dr. Hlavac. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e1895	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2051	I very much welcome Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2079	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2100	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" was agreed. This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The rule also applies to the members of the government who are known and who were also presented yesterday. I ask whether there are objections to this proposal regarding the distribution of speaking time. - That's not the case. This has been unanimously approved by the National Council. Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Trade, trade, industry, tourism Chapter 64: Constructions and technology (including business plan)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2142	We are entering the negotiations on the IX advisory group: economic affairs. Reporting is not required. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mrs Gredler.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2172	Mr President. It is currently the Transport Committee's meeting. Can you tell me whether this is an urgent project, so that the Transport Committee has to meet in parallel to the plenary session – or whether this is not the case?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2196	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will make myself known and will make a statement to you in 5 minutes. I don't know before. As no report was requested, I will go into the deliberations and give the floor to Mr Helmut Haigermoser as the first speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2224	High house! Federal Minister! Mr President. From a liberal point of view, there are some aspects of economic policy; a problem that also moves me from my professional work. I would like to make a few points on the situation of Austrian trade. Federal Minister! We are certainly of the common opinion that the long-standing discussion on the breaking-out of local services is important that this is also a social problem or a subject. It should be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that in the tax field in particular, almost nothing has been done – on the positive side – to get the arms of the local suppliers. It was urgent to do something with regard to the explosion of areas in trade, in connection with the destruction of thousands of full-time jobs and also thousands of training places. The situation is undoubtedly such that it is five minutes after twelve. This disastrous development occurred after a concentration process in trade, which has caused economic damage to agriculture, to the food industry as a whole. The main blame for this negative development is the socialist coalition government because it has refused to adopt a suitable, modern antitrust law, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, black and red mayors then carried out a church tower policy without any equal in the annex to a lack of antitrust law and lack of spatial policy measures and forced the shopping centres on the green meadow – at the disadvantage, as has been said, of whole regions. Ladies and gentlemen! If we find, Mr Mayor, you are one of the fellow culprits on this level, that the city shopping centres are called vampires, and if an expert says that it is not yet known to the people that the establishment of shopping centres on the green meadow has an impact on their quality of life and a new job on the green meadow means the outing for three jobs in the local centre, then we know that the economic account is not there. Federal Minister! It is therefore positive to see – and I say this again here – that you, often opposed by your coalition partner, have also adopted a shopping center regulation, which allows at least a reflection and gives rise to a new general order in the sense of the free fair market economy. I would also like to pay tribute to you for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2272	Mr Haigermoser! I am now interrupting you, and I am interrupting the session and asking the presidents of the club to come to me briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2296	I welcome the interrupted meeting and would ask an official of the Parliamentary Directorate to inform the chairman of the Committee on Transport that the meeting should now be suspended at a unanimous request of all five political groups in order to avoid having a plenary session and a committee meeting without consensus at the same time. - I'm asking you to make that happen. Mr Haigermoser can now continue to speak. We only need to make sure that time is right. You've been talking for 3 minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2327	Mr President. With permission: I have been in this House for 15 years, and it has happened for the first time that a major speaker will be interrupted because of the chaos in Parliament's management. Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] By the way, that's not usual. I say this quite quietly, Mr President. And I think you should also ask yourself whether such a process of our work is appropriate in this House – but only on the verge. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Federal Minister! As a follow-up: I believe that we should continue to work in this field, seek common ground, and the freedom of opposition is certainly ready to do so. Federal Minister! They were able to find in the reply to the budget question No 86/J-BA that the division of countries of the IMD and the World Economic Forum Austria in 1994 and 1995 demonstrated a significant position in competitiveness in the international comparison. Since then, Austria has been moving steadily down and is now only in second place in the IMD comparison. In view of these figures, Mr Federal Minister, we believe that you should be alarmed. They have mutilated, beautified, and have once again placed themselves in this area as a grievance court council. Federal Minister! I do not claim that you are solely responsible for such a negative development, but the fact is that the socialist coalition government has not opposed it. I'm going to take the evidence for it. It has not accompanied you in your budget, Mr Federal Minister, in any innovation process. The main economic barriers, such as the too high additional wage costs, Mr. Federal Minister,... [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner speaks with the Abg. Head.]] We can also end the debate, settle down, go home, and the case is over, Minister of State! You are holding your private talks, the President interrupts me, a transport committee is meeting by the way. Such a budget debate is a scandal in this Parliament! That is what I am telling you in all clarity!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2396	Mr Haigermoser! I would like to protect the House's officials against the accusation of a "chaos in the Parliamentary Directorate". This accusation is unfounded! [[Abg. May. Posch: Your speeches are not so important!]] The Committee on Transport has been convened by agreement at 8 a.m. and if a committee meeting takes longer than planned, the accusation of a chaos in the Directorate of Parliament is totally unfounded. That's for clarification. You are speaking again, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2436	Mr President. I urge Parliament's highest right, namely the freedom of the word from this pult, Mr President, so that it is clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: What do you think?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you are not prepared to make sure that a Member can give his speech from the speaker's desk unimpeded, I urge you, Mr President, to look at the right here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Only within the framework of the Rules of Procedure! Only within the framework of the Rules of Procedure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There have been years of promises in the sand. On the occasion of EU accession, you, Mr. Federal Minister, promised to make simplifications in the Intrastat area in Brussels. They have promised in committee deliberations that in the area of Intrastat, a part of the bureaucracy, only the exporting country will have to deliver these messages – no doubt in the time of the computer. To date, there has been no results at all, Mr. Federal Minister! You know, as I do, that, for example, the introduction of the euro will cause billions of costs on the part of trade. One speaks of a sum of about 2.5 billion schilling. In all EU countries, Mr. Federal Minister, a voluntary agreement with trade, with industry, has been reached to focus on consumer protection. They are the only minister responsible in an EU country to put a red tape sample on the table – under quotation marks – so that once again the competitiveness of Austrian trade, Austrian industry and the danger of starting from the 25th century. Place of the ranking to fall back again. Federal Minister! You're responsible for this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only the message of a liberal, but also the message of your friend Madethaner, who sent you under the title "Save billions": Austria's companies are seriously disadvantaged in the global competition from the legislator. – I quote: Load racks – Austria’s companies are extremely burdened. - As far as Leopold Maderthaner is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I share this view of Mr Leopold Maderthaner, but the question arises once again what you intend to do in order to keep this finding from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce or to bring it into a different direction. There are still examples to support these liberal claims. For example, the statement of the old President of the IV – the Industrial Union – who says: Administration and control of the entire economic activity have led to an international leading position in prevention activities over the past 50 years. – End of the quote. For example, Mrs Frieser has said several times that she will no longer agree to a bureaucracy sample. If it is then voted in Parliament, it falls down the Austrian People's Party as a whole. A few more short keywords: Technology offensive – run in sand; Job creation offensive – in the sand; Industrial innovation with part-time industries – a flop; you had to admit that yourself, Minister of State! So on the plus side there is relatively little, on the minus side the balance tends to be political failure in your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister! We liberals therefore say: We do not agree with this budget because it does not involve any innovation because it does not involve progress because your budget approaches, your political activity as a whole can be found in an old water. Finally, I should like to address a question to you, Mr. Federal Minister – also in your capacity as a supervisory body over the Austrian Chamber of Commerce: What to Remember In view of the facts already identified several times, what the participation of the Chamber of Commerce at the Austro-Veda in Budapest is about to take place? It has been stated several times by the Control Office that no accounting was available in this company, which was set up as a result of the acquisition of an office for the foreign trade office in Budapest, and once again this report points out the urgent need to reorganise the inadequate accounting immediately so that the auditer's confirmation notes can be received and corrected tax declarations to the Hungarian tax authority. In view of that, I ask you: What have you done to clarify this, and what will you do in the future if you haven't done anything up to now? Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I note that we have put on the table our concepts of trade regulation under the motto "Faire tax needs the country", that we urge support for the small and medium-sized economy – for the benefit of the Austrian jobs, the apprentices in this country and for the well-being of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2551	Ladies and gentlemen! Every day, a Member of this House is accused of criminal acts. Yesterday, colleagues in Kostelka were accused of infidelity, and today someone is accused of committing fraud. Ladies and gentlemen! I said yesterday and yesterday that I won't give any other calls for order, because that's pointless. But I must say that this ongoing accusation of criminal acts is certainly not useful for the house. It was so yesterday, it was yesterday so; it should all think about it. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure on interruption are still part of the Rules of Procedure. The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. The speaking time is set at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2590	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The waves are going up a little in the last few days. I would, however, like to focus on the real issue. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll say it in advance: I know that some burdens have to be eliminated, but in principle it has to be noted that Austria's comparable economic characteristics are better than the EU average. I emphasize again: better! [[The liberals are leaving the meeting room.]] Unfortunately, Mr Haigermoser goes out, but you can then read it in the Minutes. This doesn't make it any better if you leave the hall. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Maderthaner! It'll be better if they leave the hall!]] I have to say the following about the audit report he is addressing here for the second time: Firstly, he does not say how the legal provisions were in Hungary at the time. That's what he's not doing. Secondly, I note: If the liberals had a control office as we have, which shows how to correct something, then there would not be the case of Rosenstingl today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There would also be no bankruptcy of the party's own housing company. Ladies and gentlemen! I would, however, like to focus immediately on the subject. I said that Austria's economic data is good, but these comparisons for Austria and the Austrian economy in themselves must not cause us to rest with other countries in the EU or with other non-EU competitors. We have, of course, corrections and reforms in areas where we have weaknesses where we need correction and reform. And there are weak areas, one has to say, and we can continue to correct them right now, where the economy is running well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out very clearly: Even though important decisions in the EU will be taken today in Brussels or in the context of the euro in Frankfurt, we remain always responsible for the local policy, for the competitiveness of the Austrian economy and for a responsible budget policy. That is essential. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also say quite clearly: Happy economic data, which can well be determined, are of no use to those who have no work or find no work. That is why we also have to make every effort in this area to further improve the situation. In order to create and safeguard jobs, further concrete measures are needed to ensure our businesses' competitiveness and thus employment. Only competitive companies that make profits can secure jobs and create new ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is, when I talk about corrective requirements: less red tape, lower additional wage costs, lower tax burden and a reduction in public debt. These are the key points that must remain decisive for Austrian economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially through the euro, the European economy is finding more and more recognition in the world economy, and that is why Austria's move towards the EU and its participation in the euro from the outset was an essential decision, because it removes barriers to trade and prevents price fluctuations in order to mention only a few advantages. Of course, we could show further benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises carrying Austria’s economy – they are the backbone of the Austrian economy – suffer from high costs and additional costs – that is clearly to be said – and would also suffer from a drag-off of the tax reform. They suffer – and I would like to say that very clearly – at their expense under the burden of bureaucracy. We must also continue our efforts to export, which can also be very encouraging growth rates. Above all, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises in their efforts to go to export, export to remote countries. We must pay particular attention to this. Ladies and gentlemen! I could only say yesterday at a press conference on Austrian agriculture or food, food and food exports, that we have had very good growth rates in this area too. Due to the good quality that Austrian agriculture provides, it is possible that export companies dealing with these products achieve success in all markets. We export to almost all the countries of the world. And that is really very pleasing for agriculture. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If I say that we need to help small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, then of course the question arises, ladies and gentlemen. For example, by benchmarking, that is, by comparing with other countries, so that we can see where we can do something better. This is certainly important and good. We can also help them through new public management. This means pushing back bureaucratic structures, making the public sector cheaper, in order to increase the scope for businesses and the individual citizens. Because I said save on public expenditure: This also applies to business start-ups, because there are high costs in the start-up. We also need to think about it. An economic and competition tax reform is certainly a key to further improving Austrian competition conditions. Many of the works are hardly eligible for funding and sometimes lead to damage to our economy to pusch and black work. The high additional wage costs also promote the coup – one has to say this clearly. I am sure that we will get a part of this problem when the labour factor is taxed off and the additional wage costs are reduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the state export offensive will be able to live even more effectively together with the successful work of the External Economic Organisation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. That's an hour's commandment. Some success figures, ladies and gentlemen: Last year our exports increased by 16.4 percent, while imports increased by just under 9.45 percent. That is to say, there has been an improvement in the trade balance for the first time. That's particularly pleasing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Exports to Eastern Europe and North America increased by more than 30 percent, those to Latin America even by 36 percent. These are successes that the Austrian economy has to show here. This trend must continue. However, as has been said, this is not possible without the many small and medium-sized enterprises that we have to accompany consistently and consciously in the development of new markets. That is what I am going to conclude with. Mr President. High house! There is certainly no cause for regret, but rather there is reason for hope for the future. However, we must be able to relieve companies of tax, help them to visit export markets, and make the State's services even more efficient. These are the things we have to correct. In this regard, we can learn from other countries that make these things better. We should do it to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2682	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which is now slowly returning, obviously has a glass chin. I do not know whether Mr Klubobmanns Khol's statement, which he called over, was useful, fair and has contributed to the matter, but yet I would like to say: [[Abg. Blossom: This is a shame!]] A group which is so unhinderingly dispensing the other political groups in a way that I call it "stadling" should also have a little more firmness if criticism of them is practised. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the economic debate. Mr Haigermoser has referred to local services. He meant that there was a major problem in this area, and he was right. Only, as always, we're picking up the horse from behind. Why, then, did the local centres fall back in their function of local services? Why are there fewer and fewer shops in the flatland? – This is an expression of the framework that we have set for them. This is an expression of land ordination, antitrust law and spatial order. Haigermoser's right. But this is a mistake of policy, not a mistake of consumers. To say the shopping malls are vampires, and the people go voluntarily to the vampire, that is scurril. So we are regulating this once again because we have set up wrong regulations before. Ladies and gentlemen! Shopping malls cannot be prevented. And your regulation, Mr Federal Minister, means that you make the existing shopping centres monopolists, because they now have no more to fear competition. If I were the Plus City in Linz, I'd say: Excellent, the Federal Minister Farnleitner decides to protect competition so that no other competitor can be built in front of me. That's great. Have we ever considered what we are doing wrong in urban and local policy? When I drive into a city today, parking is expensive and I don't get a parking lot. If I drive to a shopping centre, I get a parking lot for free and have a service with it. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the policy I'm going to attack again and again as a liberal. This is a policy that is not customer-oriented, which does not break its head over why customers act in the direction in which they go, but only believes they have to turn on the regulation screw. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Close-up to the flatlands in particular is a very serious problem. A problem is of course also the legal framework. As long as we do not have any more work on the question of the trade order, the opening hours, the question of postal offices, which are increasingly out of work, because simply no more letters are sent, but mostly e-mails and faxes, because the United Parcel Service and other providers are doing better parcel traffic, doing something as long as we are not willing to legally allow Trafiken, Totostelles together in a neighborhood shop to deal with their business as long as we do not allow an inn to be in the left house to be in the inn and in the right room to have a retailer who can always lock up when necessary, and who leads exactly the products that the consumers want, as long as we will continue to crush the local supply under the fingers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner speaks to the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!]] I am convinced that local services cannot be regulated, but other considerations need to be considered. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I cordially invite you to come with me. Let's talk about three. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: Please, please!]] Your tactlessness is sometimes really very pompous, but you're so convinced that tact is something that doesn't happen to you. I would kindly ask you to take your place, because I am addressing the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on Members of the Liberals and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! They are responsible for trade, trade and industry, and tourism is also involved. As measured by the growth of gross domestic product, you are successful, Federal Minister. Austria has entered a period of growth, with a growth of significantly over 2.5 percent. In this way, your policy is a success. Let's try to analyze the reasons. Success in the economy always means long-term preparatory work. The long-term preparatory work was the accession to the European Union. Now, three years later, he really starts to affect himself. The Members of the Liberal Group should consider what they told us three years ago in relation to EU enlargement. They painted horror ghosts on the wall. And we now thank God a growth of 2 to 3 percent, because we have given our Austrian economy the market it needs. Go inside, and think about what you've done for purely populist reasons three years ago in connection with EU enlargement! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on MEPs from SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have mastered God thanks to the structural change in the Austrian industry. And for the time being my compliment from this pult: What the Austrian industry has brought together on structural change, on new products, is a great achievement. Your export offensive, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, has not bothered, and your technology offensive has not been an obstacle to it, but they have not produced these successes. These were additional measures, which have added a little bit to a moving train. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: So that's not up to you!]] Dear Dr. Drinkl! The export billion has been cut to 300 million schillings, on two stages, and the technology offensive is still not taking place because there are still three technology institutes where red and black and red are fighting, which ministers are allowed to spend. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] A real technology policy would mean that you decide in a new Federal Ministerial Law a Ministry of Technology Promotion – regardless of whether it is red or black. Then you could really make a technology offensive and don't always have to argue party-politically, who is the shilling of taxpayers – not your money! - may issue. Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore a self-sustaining success, which is also due to the pan-European economic development. All Members of this House are pleased that it is going up again economically. I, Minister for Economic Affairs, am looking for your contribution here in the budget debate. They are responsible for trade, trade, industry and tourism. You spend 900 million schilling for central administration of your not quite 3-billion budget. That's certainly necessary, that's your brain trust. You spend 1.8 billion schilling on promotion measures, and I am already questioning them – you have already questioned them. At the end of this millennium, at the beginning of the new millennium, are the promotions that were certainly wise and necessary in the high interest rate phase, in the 1970s and 1980s, at a sustainable low interest rate? Should you not rather go the way you have already taken, namely the way into liability, and create a new generation of equity over liabilities and reduce the entrepreneurial risk? The patent system in Austria works, only the question is always how. We have once made the effort to congratulate the 20 largest patent applicants on a questionnaire to find out what they think of the patent office. Surprisingly, the patent office itself was not ready to do this examination. The European Patent Office does so regularly, only ours, because those responsible in our patent office know that they are good. They don't need to question their customers. We asked the customers, and I must tell you that the result is maximum with satisfactory to medium-sized assessment. I believe that in this area, although it is a functioning area of the Austrian legal system, some changes would be necessary. Your contribution to our success is obviously within the framework of the Austrian economy. They have a classical cross-sectional competence. You have few own competences if you want to influence the framework conditions of business, but you have a lot of cross-cutting competence in your task in the Council of Ministers, where the principle of unanimity prevails. So I have to measure your success or failure in the situation of the Austrian business economies. Federal Minister! In a single sentence: The Austrian companies do not deserve enough, so there are too few companies in Austria. The profit situation or the profit situation, with the exception of some large, very successful jumpbos, is simply too low in Austria. Yes, how do you want to make a founding offensive, how do you want to get more self-employed in this country if the average entrepreneur and self-employed does not even earn a capital interest, let alone earn a risk capital premium? This is the task of the Minister of Economic Affairs. I know you can't do that alone, but you're finally sitting in a collegiate body, which can only take unanimous decisions, in the Council of Ministers, and you're there in the negotiations, in 1,000 talks with your ministerial colleagues, ensuring that it's worth getting more self-employed in Austria again. Have you ever specifically compared the social protection provisions, the fiscal possibilities and so on, and so on, of an employee who deserves 30 000 S or 40 000 S gross in a secure position, with those of a craftsman or a self-employed of a small computer company? Federal Minister! If he taxed the high amount of 500 000 S per year income and you only converted his work performance to what he would have to get, he would be employees, he would come to a gross hourly wage of 150 p. That's the point! ==References====External links== May at the Town Hall Square – thank God, finally, I think for the first time in her history – big posters hung up: More entrepreneurs need Vienna. Thank you for that! You're right. More entrepreneurs need Vienna. Only, with these framework conditions that you offer to the self-employed in this country, you will no longer get entrepreneurs. I believe that changing this is a very important part of your responsibility as Minister of Economic Affairs. The reasons why we have such poor yields in small and medium-sized enterprises – the National Bank shows us that each year with its first-class industry comparisons – are undoubtedly the result of sales. Today we have an export economy, EU-backed, but we have weak private consumption. Weak private consumption has four reasons. It is based on income development, which the Social Democrats rightly always point out, but it is equally well-founded in the savings packages of this Federal Government, which have made the difference between gross and net even greater. That is, labour costs have increased, and the net wages of people have stagnated. So the state has arranged an even bigger cake of work for itself. This is the wrong policy you have done here with the savings packages because they have led to a lower income development. We have a lack of tourism expenditure in Austria. Federal Minister! The Austrian tourism industry is successful, but not in all parts, only in a maximum of one third. The Austrian tourism industry has all the market opportunities in the world, limited by the framework conditions of the economy in our country. But from 1992 to today we have lost real to the 50 billion schilling purchasing power of our foreign guests. For the Minister of Finance, this means a loss of at least 5 billion schilling of VAT. These are billions of turnover lost in this way to trade, industry and the further multipliers in the tourism industry. Of an amount of 1 000 S, which an Austrian hotelier invests in Austria, 900 S remain in the region, from 1 000 S he buys, 800 S to 850 S remain in the region. We have not understood this greatest multiplier, which also brings the money to the remotest valley, where no other industrial value added would be possible. Minister for Economic Affairs! The Austrians, of course, go shopping across the border. There are two details that you have completely slept, one concerning the accession to the European Union and the other concerning the entry into force of the Schengen Agreement. Thirdly, the immediate introduction of the euro has been mentioned. Two you slept. A box of beer costs 15 percent more in Schärding than on the other side of the inn. Before joining the European Union, our national border was also customs border. As a result, the price difference did not fall further in weight, it was not as bad as it was. We could afford our own tax policy in the indirect tax field. However, after accession to the European Union, the free borders have fallen, as there are no border controls in the Schengen area. Federal Minister! Do you really want to wait until the euro is introduced? Finally, every Schärdinger would be bleak if he did not buy his beer in Bavaria, where only the indirect tax burden is 15 percent lower than in Schärding. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Do you want to drive our Austrian consumers across the border? In a common economic and monetary area, the difference in indirect taxation cannot be as high as is reflected solely in the price of a simple box of beer on this side and beyond the Bavarian-Austrian border! At Schärding there is a bridge over the inn, because consumers just go over to the other side, or they drive by car across the border and go on the Bavarian side to the supermarket. If they buy the beer there, which is only 15 percent cheaper for tax reasons, they will also buy the food there. If this is already possible in the Schengen area, then, I believe, it will only be quite a matter of course after the introduction of the euro. Minister for Economic Affairs! There is an urgent need for action. The expenditure of Austrian tourists abroad is the highest in Europe, according to the statistics on this subject. No country in the world has as high per capita expenditure in foreign tourism as Austria. These are essentially due to the uncertainty of statistics, because you know that the total foreign purchases of the Austrians, i.e. small border traffic, are taken into account in these statistics. Federal Minister! Of course, the poor income situation of Austrian companies also has to do with the high costs in Austria. There is no point in trying to get rid of all these international comparisons. We now have exorbitant high labour costs, and yet our employees do not deserve much. We have the third highest labour costs in the European Union, but only the tenth highest gross wages. That's a problem. That's where the state takes too much away. We have environmental costs – I have been allowed to talk about them – which have far exceeded the ecological and economic optimum, especially in the field of canal fees. Also friend Wabl has shown that we do not dig canals to clean the water, but only to employ the construction industry. That's a problem. To get back to an example: The lone house on the edge of the forest would have been much better served with a plant clarifier system than with a channel connection for 1 million schilling, for which users will then have to pay on-going fees. Another key word, Minister of State: Bureaucratisation costs! If you have cross-sectional competence for the economy, deregulation and debureaucratisation in this country must be your central concern. You have all the power in your hand. You're in the executive. They have all human and financial resources. We'll measure you by what you've actually moved. Federal Minister! Reply You ask yourself the following questions: Have you been successful in this sense in the last three years of your ministry? Did you pursue positive location policy? Has the number of self-employed in Austria increased during your ministry? Have the business data improved? Has employment in Austria regained the value it already had with 3.1 million in 1992/93? Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Economic Affairs! You have a major task in this country, which is not in the amount of your budget in the ministry, but in your cross-sectional competence. Use it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2833	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2855	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, local care would be a fascinating topic. I agree with you that there can be no solution in this area. However, we can adopt framework laws. This is only possible in conjunction with the relevant bodies, i.e. with the municipalities and countries. Only then will there be a positive development. But I think this will be discussed at another time. Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, we are discussing a draft budget for a year in which most of Europe will have a single currency. The introduction of a common pan-European currency undoubtedly means a major historical event. The years 1998/99 are years that will fundamentally change the lives of European citizens. For a few weeks now, most of the EU's internal borders have been abolished. From Sicily to Holland, from the Iberian Peninsula to Austria or Sweden you can travel without border and passport control. A few weeks ago, accession negotiations with six other countries were started in Brussels. A few days ago it was finally decided that the same currency will be paid in 11 EU countries. Even if the importance of this development is not properly perceived, I believe that all three facts I have quoted are changes which will not only speed up the integration of Europe but will certainly also deepen it. This also creates fundamentally changed framework conditions. Austria's participation in the integration process is well justified. Why? – Between 1990 and 1997, Austrian economic growth exceeded the EU average by half a percentage point. This indicates the good management of Austria's currency turbulence, east opening and accession to the EU. Last Tuesday, ladies and gentlemen, the US rating agency Standard & Poor’s confirmed the Triple-A for Austria, which means the best possible credit rating on international financial markets. If Mr Peter mentions the fact that success in economic policy can only be achieved through long-term preparatory work, then I believe these facts are proof that economic policy must have been good over the last seven years, otherwise these good results would not have been achieved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In most EU countries, restructuring measures in recent years have shown their impact, both positive and negative. The success can now be seen. A renowned bank expert believes that in Germany, our most important economic partner, the companies have been driven by no crisis more strongly than this: "These are changes as they have never been achieved since the post-war period. Now, domestic companies are positioning themselves for the common market in monetary union. The trend goes away from defensive restructuring, towards offensive investment." The same applies to Austria, ladies and gentlemen. In the last study of the Austrian National Bank, it is said here – I quote – that: "Nearly all important economic data from Austria have significantly improved due to the favourable international environment and the significantly increased competitiveness of Austrian products. The high productivity growth in the manufacturing sector favoured unit labour costs, which improved dramatically vis-à-vis the trading partners." Austria has been able to improve its unit labour costs, a key factor in price competitiveness, by more than 10 percent over the last three years compared to its main trading partners. Price competitiveness manifests itself in hourly production. It has increased by 16 percent from 1996 to 1998. Industrial growth in 1997 was 4.3 percent higher than the European average. Economic growth accelerated to 2.5 percent in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! There cannot be more imposing data. It's pointless to talk about "must" situations all the time. We are in an excellent position! There is no doubt that we still have problems with the labour market, which I am going to talk about. But the restructuring of our economy – successful restructuring measures are already under way – is of course not yet over. The reform process must continue, but the data show that policy was correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The export was once again the bearing pillar of our economic success. This is not only a sign of a vital industry, but also a source of joy for other reasons. Mr Maderthaner has already mentioned an export rate of 60.8 percent at a relatively low import rate. This means improving our external trade deficit by a quarter. Finally, all this shows that the Austrian economy is very well able to take advantage of its opportunities at a time of global economic upheavals. It is just as correct and important that the Minister of Finance, within the framework of his proposal, support this policy with new emphasis, especially in the direction of exports. I mention the export offensive, even though it is criticised – certainly this criticism is not entirely unwarranted – that we have not yet made significant progress in the technology field. Overall, however, there is a positive picture. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a fact: Those who strengthen, secure and improve our employment situation. Especially in Eastern trade, Austria was able to maintain its strong position and, last but not least, continue to expand. Last year alone, exports to the Central Eastern European countries increased by 34 percent. As a result, the share of East exports in total Austrian exports increased from 15,4 to 17,5 percent in the previous year. This means that Austria still has the highest Eastern trade share of all Western European countries. The importance of Eastern trade for our country becomes even clearer when one considers its development since the incisive political and economic changes of 1989 and 1990. The trade surplus with Eastern Europe rose from 7.4 billion in 1989 to an estimated 36.8 billion in 1997 and has thus increased. These are once again impressive figures that prove the performance of our export industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The positive effects on the employment market have been clarified by economic researcher Stankovsky. Ladies and gentlemen! As positive as the opening to the east is, it is beyond discussion that there are problems in the border area. But these are soluble by balance. This shows that the improvement of wage levels has become statistically visible in recent years. The question of employment must continue to be a matter of concern to us, particularly the improvement of training in technological and other demanding areas. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Maderthaner, pointed out the problems of the shadow economy. There is no doubt that there is a need for action here, that appropriate measures must be taken, not only because of the failure of social security contributions and wage tax, but in particular because of the distortion of the competitive situation. This is where the government and, ultimately, we are called for. But overall, this budget is a further contribution to improving the framework conditions for our economy and thus for employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2964	Mrs Langthaler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e2985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This 1999 federal estimate is likely to be the last Federal proposal to include Schilling amounts. In any case, the next Federal proposal for the year 2000 will lead to a double – I would like to say almost – "price award". Then we will only be properly aware that there is a common market in Europe and that there must therefore also be a common tax policy in Europe. In the field of economics there should be harmonisation as well as in the field of policy. Federal Minister! If, in the context of the budget debate, the economic sector has been referred to as too high labour costs in Austria and this is a reason, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in that country, that they may not, or may not, benefit from initiatives in Europe and the common European market, then it must be said that this is an area where the Federal Government is far from taking advantage of the great opportunities that exist in connection with the common European policy in the area of the common economic area. We Greens have been saying for so many years that, especially in Austria, the additional wage costs are enormously high. We are not in favour of unilaterally reducing the additional labour costs of a tax reform, but rather we are in favour of a comprehensive tax reform, which also involves taxation of resources, especially energy, and a significant reduction in the tax burden on labour. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] We have already submitted so many documents to this effect. The opposition has been demanding for several years – this in every budget debate – that something be finally introduced by the government. It seems that your place of business is not one that recognizes the chances of such an ecologicalisation of the tax system. This applies in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises in that country. How many new impulses and industries could arise as a result of such ecologicalization! Federal Minister! We are discussing in a few weeks in this House a complete restructuring of the energy industry, which is necessary as a result of the European Union's corresponding liberalisation directive. There are huge opportunities here! I deeply regret that you have had to change your position so dramatically since you were ministers because of the constraints in your department. Obviously you are acting here, or rather you have to act against better knowledge, because otherwise I cannot explain the draft for the ElWOG, which will be negotiated in this House shortly. This is a typical area in which the opportunities arising from liberalisation in the European economy are not used at all. Once again, federalism in Austria is a brake on looking at the new markets as well as the new opportunities open up for small businesses. This applies, for example, to companies that want to invest in the field of eco electricity or also in the field of distribution companies, but which does not seem to be possible because of the rigid systems that are obviously not broken down in the federal states – there are simply too many fixed structures and power relationships. It is not at all seen what great opportunities a united Europe offers in economic and environmental terms. These opportunities are not perceived. You, Mr Minister, as well as the entire Federal Government, obviously do not have the power to overcome these rigid, persistent elements of the federal states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, this is also recognised in this Federal proposal. An example is undoubtedly the area of eco-tax and energy management, but another example is also the plant law in your department or mountain law, which is also discussed. We also discussed this in the Committee and questioned some of the figures contained in this proposal. It was also agreed by some previous speakers that greater efficiency and cost reduction should be ensured in the area of bureaucracy. I do not see here the problem that too many officials are working and that procedures therefore take so long. From my point of view, this is not the reason for the long duration of procedures. The problem is, however, that there is no way to overcome rigid structures that have grown for decades in order, for example, to create a uniform system law and not fragmented procedures, as in the case of investment law. For some plants, five, six, seven are necessary! Such negotiations and coordination activities will, of course, cost money and will also lead to unnecessarily delaying decisions. Minister! In your own place of business, you are unfortunately proof that such harmonisation is obviously not taking place. In your department you are responsible for mountain law, you are responsible for electricity law, you are also responsible for everything that is connected with the air, such as air pollution. We have seen that you do not succeed in harmonizing these areas alone, and that we are unable to put a uniform environmental plant right on the table. This leads us to continue to struggle with a fragmented right of plant and, as a result, to a bureaucracy that leads to long procedures – a situation that does not satisfy anyone, neither the companies nor the arrants, who often have to make excuses that procedures would take so long precisely due to public protests. That's not the reason, Minister of State! I deeply regret that it is once again the economic resort which clearly prevents the establishment of a uniform environmental plant law under the EIA legislation and that there is a continuing "warfare" between the economic resort and the environment resort. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] They obviously block each other and try to take away mutual competences in the field of plant law. We are still faced with a situation which then leads to the fact that a representative of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, such as their President Madethaner, argues at every budget debate, we need a deregulation in plant law, a procedure too long and too much. The problem is not the environmental standard in Austria, but the problem is that no one in the resorts and between the federal government and the states is obviously willing to give away even a little bit of its influence and power. In this way, it will be impossible to create in itself a logical, unified right of investment, which will enable rapid settlement of proceedings with the relevant citizen participation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! Unfortunately, you have not taken any initiatives at all in recent months. If you look at the initiatives proposed by the Federal Government and, in particular, your place of business for the EU Presidency, I believe that this is another proof that you are not really enjoying innovation. There are already proposals from your department and also from other ministers to how the EU Presidency is to be used in order to negotiate important issues at EU level prominently for Austria. I have looked at the relevant proposals, including those from your place of business, Mr Minister. It repeatedly mentions the high labour costs and the resulting difficulties that prevent many young entrepreneurs from becoming active accordingly. The Federal Government's paper for the EU Presidency does not include ecologizing the tax system as a priority for Austria. In the entire paper, which covers about 40 pages, this initiative does not occur at all: neither a proposal from your department nor – which is particularly depressing to me – a proposal from the environmental sector. The whole paper reads rather as if one was still trying to keep the structures that have grown historically in Austria and not to take advantage of the great opportunities and opportunities offered by a common market for Austria. Federal Minister! We will discuss this shortly: The E-Economy would have been a great opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a liberalised market. I say this quite consciously as a green person, because I am firmly convinced that a liberalised market can make a very ecological sense when the framework conditions are set in such a way that ecological companies will not at all be given an opportunity to claim to firm-minded companies that do not at all respect the ecological aspects. This, Mr Minister, is particularly true of the fact that you are supporting those who have already been firmly in the saddle and have secured their means of influence, namely all those who are already firmly represented in the Federal Chamber of Commerce. But all new industries, all innovative companies that want to move into new economic areas – be that in the field of telecommunications or in general in the field of new information technologies, as well as in the field of environmental and eco-technology – are being beaten. In you, Minister, these companies have unfortunately not found an ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3092	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3113	Mr President. High house! In order to preserve my adrenaline, I should like to speak just as Mrs Langthaler has said, because lack of information simply cannot be accepted as a reason for accusing my place of business not to work intensively on modernisation. – Unfortunately, the green club has missed out on the fact that we are already preparing a draft for a uniform plant law and are discussing it internally. It's gonna be safe this year. I can't do you regularly... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I asked you in committee, and you said no!]] I said then that we just got such a draft, but we haven't studied it yet. We have the design, and we will complete it at expert level. I can tell you that the uniform system law is certainly coming to the House this year. This was a difficult work. If you assume that we would not work there at all, I can't resist that in the room. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr President. If I have already asked for the word, let me say two or three more things. Mr Haigermoser has recently given a position on the site catalogue. To this end, I would like to say two things: In the assessment of all major international organisations that do not base on survey results, Austria is very well aware of the quality of the site. You can read that yourself. It is important, in the APA, we see from the Business Agency that in 1997 we had the best year of settlement, and this year it seems to be getting even better. More than ever, especially small entrepreneurs choose Austria as their location. Apparently there are more entrepreneurs abroad who see opportunities in Austria than in Austria itself. You should say that too. Another point: We launched a second campaign with the WdF, the Economic Forum of the Executives, for the second time this week by Austria's leading companies on "good news" from Austria, because the location query of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has also shown that at least these companies no longer have to complain about Austria's location. To this end: If gas and electricity prices are liberalised, then there will be a reduction in the substantial cost factors in which we still have excessive costs, so that this problem is also eliminated. In the meantime, the question of the duration of the proceedings is undisputed that much of the procedures are found to last well below three months. I would ask that these substantial changes be taken into account in the situation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). There is a draft review, which excludes 90 percent of the commercial and small companies from this award and which affects those large companies that have already voluntarily decided to start double pricing next year. [[Abg. May. Peter: What do we need a law for?]] The accusations that we are causing billions of costs with the award of prices are simple and simply not correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make a brief comment on the draft Electricity Economic and Organisation Act: What is important in this case is that many alternative energy producers can get rid of their electricity. I have proposed that local small networks should be excluded from the approval procedures of a traditional nature. It can then be set up local distribution rings which can implement their faith, whether in wind energy, solar energy or otherwise, as consumers themselves, without having to talk about the difficult federal and federal feed regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3179	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3200	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! American writer Peter Drucker once wrote in his essays – yes! –: [[Abg. May. Peter: A half-Austrian!]] "The economy is like a bicycle: It only keeps balance when it's driving." – The meeting could also not describe a good budgetary policy. The budget for us is the result of a good budgetary policy of a coalition, of course marked by the ÖVP. We keep the balance in the economy, and the economy is driving. She's heading in the right direction. It drives so that the entrepreneur can live, it drives so that the worker finds work, and it should drive in such a way that all people are secure in their existence. There I am now at a point to which I would like to address. On the one hand, I always meet a lot of young, enthusiastic, talented people, namely at the award of master's letters, in the award of foreign scholarships and in the award of prizes in schools for special achievements. That's the one side. On the other hand, these young people, these initiatives, often face many difficulties when it comes to taking over parental business when it comes to maintaining an existing basis. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that not only do young entrepreneurs need to promote business start-ups, but it is also necessary to take measures to facilitate the acquisition of holdings, namely, measures in the financial field, so that the partly high level of indebtedness in the takeover does not lead to difficulties, measures in the tax field, such as exemption from inheritance tax, if the assets remain in operation after the takeover, or easier possibilities to take over with regard to investment law. An appeal to the coalition partner was already permitted from this point on: ==References====External links== May with many people, who want to celebrate with many workers, not only do we need the existing businesses, we need not only the newly founded establishments, but we also need the facilities taken over. There are about 50 000 to 70 000 farms which are in the process of taking over over the next ten years, of which between 10,000 and 12 000 are in the tourism sector alone. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The right and important business start-up initiative is essential, and immediately, to support a follow-up initiative. We simply can't continue to exist without this successor stock exchange. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to the budget, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not there, but I think he is starting to discover his heart for tourism. In fact, at the last budgetary speech, he completely ignored it. This time he at least striped it, and if this continues to develop, then we can expect some for tourism for the 2000 budget, even if it is only small things. I am thinking, for example, of initiatives that often cost relatively little, such as a picnic-free journey up to the first motorway exit. I am thinking of a package for small host operators up to a range of 5 million schillings, I am thinking of a capital increase due to the deductibility of equity interest rates. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Like a Faust on Aug’, it is not possible to release the proposed liability framework for restructuring and financing quality investment in tourism infrastructure. We should bear in mind – and Mr Peter has already pointed out – that 90 percent remain in the region, 90 percent remain in the local, regional, and domestic jobs are encouraged and secured. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! I would ask you and the Minister of Finance to give up your reluctance to give up your apprehension and get in there enormously. I believe that there is an overall interest in the economy and a special interest in tourism. We cannot abandon an industry that is training more apprentices each year, which employs a total of 500 000 people, who generate 150 billion schilling to cover the trade deficit. My request to you, Minister: Let's do everything we can to continue in this direction! No budget debate without a few words on "Austrian advertising". After all, most of the budget resources in the field of economic promotion are spent on "Austrian advertising". Saving potentials have been used so that we can now use and spend 55 percent of the budget for direct advertising. But I now call on the representatives of "Austrian Advertising" to really sell Austria. Let's finally use all forms of direct marketing! Ran to the customer! means the foreign exchange, because the customer wants to be advertised, the customer wants to be convinced of the quality, and the customer also wants to be addressed personally. More people instead of material! I think the time of the prospectus distribution and the ads is over. I have an up-to-date example from the Rocky Mountains. In recent years there have been saying and writing 100 000 guest beds newly created, and these are only fully used up by professional sales. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This way is to go from the "ÖW". We should try together to achieve that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The foreign exchange must be sold, sold and once again sold. We have a high-quality, unique product, we have, I think, the best and most beautiful product in the world. And then we should think about it at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3256	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3277	Mr President. Federal Minister! The clubman of the Austrian People's Party, Deputies Khol, in a despicable and shabby manner accused Member Haigermoser of being a 150-million schilling fraud. [[Compassion with the Feitils]] Mr Khol, take note that from this point of view you will not make such comments without penalty. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What are you doing?]] You will be this sentence – I can guarantee you! – still bitterly regret! That's what I swear to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language supposed to do?]] This style, this report is last-class, Mr Khol, and I can only say to you: I am sorry for the members of the ÖVP who are now talking so grinningly, because some of them have not deserved this clubman. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language?]] If you have Mumm, Mr Khol, if you still have the sparks of an honorary man in you, come out here and apologise to Mr Haigermoser. - But you're not an honorary man! You're not one, and you'll never be one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Awesome!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There is nothing to be expected of you, Mr. Khol. Stop talking about the good things in Parliament as chief priests and hypocrites! You have nothing but bad in mind, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Fink: Just one must say that which changed the party!]] You're not gonna tell me you're not! Finally, Mr. Khol, last-class! [[Abg. Steibl: That's the question of what's last-class!]] Please? [[Abg. Steibl: That's the question of what's last-class!]] Come on. You are out and explain to us what Mr Khol meant earlier. Maybe you want to make it right. Ladies and gentlemen! To say something in the matter itself: In my view, three things, Mr Federal Minister, are not adequately regulated in the budget at all. First point: the ASFINAG solution. They know that, if no means are provided, the ASFINAG will slumber into the pleite in 2003. It's talking about a false amount of 2.3 billion schilling. You have so far avoided telling the public how you want to make a cover. While they are in the process of organizationally reorganising the three special-road companies of the federal government, they have been trying to do so for two years – but actually with outstanding success. There are hot debates with the countries. The countries are whistling you, Minister of State. I don't wonder, because if you always drive in with the bridge rod, then you can't expect anyone to say yes, that's a good proposal. There are many things that have not been discussed. Your expectations do not even appear with your own people, in your own club, with your own national leaders. However, I do not believe that we in Austria can afford to wait another two or three years until you may find the stone of the sages and a salomonic solution accepted by everyone. I believe there is an urgent need for action, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out that, for almost a year now, things have been in the Committee. It is the Building Committee, I think, that the Member of Parliament is not here now, he has also been looking for the space, and has not been meeting for a very short year. I remember the last meeting of the Committee on Buildings, which was the speech of syndicate regulations. These syndicate regulations would now also be necessary for the field of ÖSAG, but nothing is happening. There is no one making just a dash to come to a satisfactory solution. The only thing that the Executive Director Schragl understands is that it is likely that the toll will have to be increased. You must quickly introduce the truck toll. And Mr Schragl does not rule out the question of the need for a car toll. You, Mr Federal Minister, owe this House a statement on this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They always wind and say easily insulted that you are not actually responsible and are sorry to be beaten for things you are not responsible for. Mr. Federal Minister, you have the general competence on economic issues! If you're not responsible, I'll ask myself: Who is responsible for economic matters and road construction in this country, if not you? It is not up to you to always talk to the countries; that will not be enough. This will not bring us the necessary loopholes and a rehabilitation of the ASFINAG. In any case, the result so far is poor. Further point: Luxembourg model. I know so many chamber officials, Mr Federal Minister, who say we need the Luxembourg model, it has proven itself internationally. But what happens in Austria? – Studies are being prepared, one study after another that says, that's a good thing we need. It would bring something to the construction industry and would also be able to compensate for the loss of revenue relatively quickly in the long term. The short-term effects and long-term effects would be quite positive. But I find no such approach in the budget. I do not need to go further on halving VAT. In the construction sector, in the construction sector, this would be a useful thing. The business chamberers preach this – but nothing happens. Next point: Federal high- and low-level construction, federal real estate company. Mr Federal Minister, there is also the same syndrome: For years, one has been talking about privatising in the area of the Federal Property Society, thinking about what new tasks should be assigned to them – but in practice I don't notice anything about it. You only need to look through the Court of Auditors' report in order to find out that you have been greatly delayed with your place of business that all the things you have announced have not arrived. I wonder when you're finally going to take this. The EU Presidency is coming to us, and you will probably be holding a celebration at the "Vienna Congress 2", but I fear that the solutions you have promised us will have to wait a very long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! This is not a budgetary policy, it is a policy of announcement, and Austria will not benefit from the continuation of this policy. Finally, stop promising any things together with your partners from the black half of the empire, which will then not be implemented, but act!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3452	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3477	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is only a small comment on Mr Firlinger's comments, which I appreciate on and for himself. But I cannot see any difference in his statements he made here today at the time when he was still at the Liberal Forum. At that time he had a similar or the same line of argument as today. So I wonder where the difference lies in Mr Firlinger's political opinion – but that's only on the verge. In any case, the criticism that he has practiced must be assessed accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on the construction industry, especially as this sector is characterised by high employment intensity and high domestic value added. [[Abg. Young: Value added for certain people!]] Of course, high domestic value added, you can read it everywhere. In residential construction, it is about 70, 75 percent domestic value added, which is already a lot. Maybe it's a little different in the construction of barracks, I don't know, but it's at least that way when it comes to housing. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Build a few, then you know!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the successful consolidation programme of the Federal Government, the construction investments of the federal government have not fallen, Mr. Ofner, but – on the contrary! – even significantly increased. As early as 1998, the Federal Government's building investment demand in the rail, road and building sectors has increased by over 8.2 billion Schilling to almost 32 billion Schilling in total. In 1999, a further significant increase to more than 35.5 billion schilling is planned. After all, this is an increase of no less than 11.3 percent. I believe that this is a sum that can be very proud of even in the present situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although, ladies and gentlemen, of course, every sum – no matter how high it may be – can be used, that is not enough, given the enormous increase in demand at least of the federal government, one of the main problems that we face in the construction industry seems to be not in this public demand, but in a mentality that has recently been very aptly defined in a newspaper with the well-known term "schrebergartum". The unnecessary delay in construction projects, by far not very large projects, does not occur in a few cases without material reasons. To avoid misunderstandings: I do not in any way advocate a reduction in the rights of citizens' participation, but I do not argue for the rights of the workers concerned. In fact, both workers and workers have the right to make decisions quickly. However, if these decisions are constantly delayed or even suppressed by new oppositions, this is ultimately counterproductive for all concerned. Some political groups and groups even try to use such procedures for their political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many specific examples that I should not mention the Semmering base tunnel. It is, of course, a parade example of how this problem can be put to the fore. One should not be surprised if, in view of such, one would almost say, shield citizens turn their heads off private interests. And one must not be so blue-eyed to assume that such cases do not lead to consequences regardless of the specific project. Of course, potential investors assume that similar complications could occur in other projects, therefore turn away from Austria and, unfortunately, do not invest in us to the extent that this would be possible. For example, just think of the transit projects so necessary for Vienna in the north as well as in the south, i.e. the B 301 and the B 302. Let us think of the infinite history of the "internal trajectory", in which one cannot really defend one's impression that some are more about political change than about the matter itself. In this context, I refer only to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where, after hours of discussions, we are still in the process and do not discuss content. Think of the Lainzer Tunnel, of the belt projects in Vienna, of numerous garbage dumps and even of various projects of the railway, for example as regards railway stations. To stress it again, ladies and gentlemen: It is in no way a matter of gratifyingly welcoming planned construction projects and putting them into effect immediately unchecked. But neither can it be our goal to break up investments until they are carried out in variants that are ultimately not targeting, or to throw the famous towel on truly meaningful projects. What we need to do together on the part of politics – apart from legislative measures – is to seek, with due regard to objective reasoning, also a mentality change, which is based on the fact that not in an unreflected automation of any larger construction project is initially rejected, so to speak, for safety reasons. Of course, it is also for us to look beyond our own edge of the plate, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This also applies to the ball from Stronach in Ebreichsdorf!]] Let me end by quoting a key point in the above - mentioned newspaper article: "Great projects are the devil in Austria when they cast a shadow on their own shillings." - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3568	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3590	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The question of infrastructure has already been raised by a number of previous speakers, but I would like to put it back into the room. In addition to many other factors – I only mention the still antique industrial order – the infrastructure decides on the quality of an economic location. Unfortunately, in Austria – one becomes cynical from day to day – it has succeeded to make the infrastructure a scarce asset: Either she's missing at all, or she's too expensive. This is extremely damaging for the further development of our country and our economy, and this is more than unfortunate, even if one considers that it is now expensive to pay for the lack of opportunities for development and potential in the border regions bordering on those countries before accession to the EU, which are very difficult to recover. The nets are missing. My colleague, Mr Barmüller, will address the telecommunications problems in the context of the debate on the Transport chapter. But I would like to point out at this point that it is in trouble, particularly in the field of direct telecommunications. To traffic. There are de facto no overarching structural plans for road and rail, which are implemented systematically and at the necessary speed. Mr Eder addressed this indirectly in his comments on major projects. Finally, electricity. We will only have to hold this debate because the ElWOG, the new Electricity Organisation Act, is still under discussion. But it is the right day today to point out that, if we do not succeed in resolving the structural issues connected with the reform of the electricity industry, we will be suffering a further loss of quality with regard to Austria's economic location, which will be very, very expensive. I mean, here is the time to develop a new federal spirit and to overcome in real cooperation the small-cared approaches that prevail in some federal states. I believe that only if we come to an overall solution, in particular as regards the networks, will this matter turn to the better. What has been missed in this area in the past, including the neighbouring countries, is Legion. The Hungarian electricity industry has been privatized. – The Austrian electricity industry, on the other hand, has watched without fail, instead of immediately recognizing that there is a century chance of contributing to an infrastructure-adjusted large area. It is a pity that it is so, but it must not be the same in the future. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Against this background, I would like to repeat the previous speaker from my group, Mr Helmut Peter, who said: The Federal Ministry's Law must be reformed as a matter of urgency as regards economic competence. It is unbearable that the road to you, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, will include the rail to the Minister of Science and Transport, but for example the trucks for trucks, which are known to drive on the road, also to the Minister for Science and Transport. – I am not talking about the federal states in this regard. There is a real state reform, so that the single economic area of Austria is not marked by a fragmentation at the legal level in the context of the EU economic area – for example: construction regulations; I mention this only here in this context. Only then will something emerge from a single source – quite after appropriate democratic discussion processes. However, the decision must be at the right level, and on questions of infrastructure from Austria the only right level of the federal government is from the point of view of Austria. Stay me as a final Ceterum Censeo: As long as the Chamber of Commerce is not fully reformed – not in the sense of the draft law now in place in the House on the reform of the Chamber of Commerce, but in a comprehensive sense – as long as it is not shrouded into its state-owned character as a forced organisation, there will be nothing to improve in this area. As long as officials of the Chamber of Commerce ultimately act as insurance representatives in their own interest and have lost sight of the common good for a long time, nothing will turn to the better, since the "extracting" that we misrepresent as "social partnership" – "social partnership" means dialogue, openness, seeking solutions together for the common good, but does not mean that there will be any compromises on interest, which in the end will almost eliminate the freedom of trade. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But this is your interpretation!]] Mr Puttinger! We finally need a modern organization for economic representations. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is your personal interpretation!]] Mr Puttinger! Because you're always just hacking in Austria and never going abroad, you don't know what things are. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Because you are not willing to do something for the general public!]] Do you think that if you go to the United States, you say that you are a member of the Chamber of Commerce of Vienna, you think that this is a special award? He doesn't know you're there – no matter if you want or not! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: In the USA, he is insured if the house collapses...! That's the little difference!]] Mr Puttinger! When we asked for liability to be introduced, you said it was too expensive. They thought it was better for consumers to be damaged and not covered by insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Order of Commerce! Stay with the thing!]] Mr Puttinger! You can intercede as much as you want: As long as the Chamber of Commerce is not dedressed of its state-of-the-art character, nothing will turn to the better. Believe me! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3697	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3719	High house! Minister! The 1998 and 1999 budgets are, of course, a sign of consolidation. Since much has already been said about the economy today, I would like to stress the consolidation in the area of the group of economics, where it was successfully launched by Minister Farnleitner. There are corresponding consequences, for example in the personnel sector. On the one hand, the establishment plan was followed very consistently, and on the other hand, decommissioned planning sites were only delayed or not re-occupied at all. If you look at the level of staff and the establishment plan and compare it – 1996: 6 355 planning posts, 1999: 5,750 – you can clearly see that appropriate structural reform measures and a streamlining of the construction organisation have been launched in the Minister's office. And this, of course, is also the merit of the Minister of Farnleitner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the business location: Much has already been said about this today. The situation can be summarized with a sentence: Development in Austria is positive. It's going up! The tax burden in the business sector remains an international comparison. The framework conditions are good, they may be even better, but it goes upward. An example of this is the ABA. This is a company owned by the Republic of Austria with the aim of resettlement of foreign investors. It also assumes an instrumental function for labour and industrial structural policies. The main target markets are Germany, France, Great Britain, USA, Canada, Japan and so on. And there are clear successes; for me, this is an indicator of our Austrian economy. 1997: 62 investment projects with a total investment of 2.5 billion Schilling – this must be stressed from this pult. And in the course of this investment, more than 2,000 new jobs are planned and created. Since its inception in 1982, more than 10.6 billion Schillings have been brought to Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means more than 9 200 jobs created so far. Only by working together with banks, with chambers, also with the Chamber of Commerce, has this project been so successful – and it will be in the future. It has already been stressed here: A significant part of this successful economic location in Austria is also represented by various instruments that have taken hold: the business regulation novels – the largest innovation since the Second Republic's existence. This has led to reforms, simplifications or streamlinings, which is quite slow. The exceptional export growth, the stabilised revenue in the tourism sector, all these are signs that our economy is doing well. As a citizen, I would like to address the enlargement of the EU very briefly. I believe that a policy of the burned earth will be made in part. We should not be afraid of this enlargement. We have so far benefited economically from the Eastern European countries. It is only necessary to look at the success of exports to Hungary: They increased by 41.7% in 1997 alone. Finally, a sentence on ministerial responsibility: As mayor, I am used to being able to rework my own budget if I do not spend a budget break. Unfortunately, this possibility is not allowed at the federal level, where the Federal Minister for Finance must be asked for every small change or, in the case of larger chunks, the Parliament. I believe that in times of flexibility, more opportunities should be given to the minister responsible. An example: A mission paid by the EU must be paid by the Ministry of Economic Affairs if it takes place in its place, namely as expenditure. The revenue, financed by the EU, comes into the general budget. If the spending block is exhausted, there are no more service trips, one cannot cover unless there are permits. – This is just a small example. We should perhaps create more flexibility in the Committee on Budgets – I am going to work for it, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, we can concur with the 1999 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3801	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3822	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Reformer Farnleitner" – my predecessor dreamed of it. "Success of the economy" – many representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ spoke about it. [[Call to the ÖVP: Because they are indisputable!]] I would like to contrast this pink picture on a beautiful morning with light thunder signs on the horizon. "Reformer Farnleitner" is more or less caught in the footholds of competences, in the footholds of distribution between the federal government and countries that make him fail with serious restructurings, in particular in terms of improved and enhanced competitiveness. I should like to point out once again that the ElWOG always fails to meet the individual interests of the individual energy suppliers in the federal states. Austria thus misses the opportunity to be internationally competitive through an Austrian-wide consortium in the e-business, in particular in the domestic market. Minister! In this area, you are more or less prisoners of the national leaders of your own party. I should also like to point out, Mr Minister, that you have increased to the brake too late, that you have adopted the shopping centre regulation too late, that we now have a development which has been brought forward by your colleagues in the countries, especially the ÖVP, by the Heads of State or Government, a development at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. Through a lack of spatial planning policy, missing transport policy, shopping centres were more or less placed on the green meadow, and local care in the towns, in the cities was ruined. Yesterday I had the data on the development of food retailing in Upper Austria provided by the Upper Austrian Chamber of Commerce and made a graphic version of it. You see very clearly here, Mr. Minister, increasing employment, for example in the motor vehicle sector – an area that burdens us on the environment – massively falling employment in the retail sector in the food sector, but where local supply is often the starting point for environmentally sound supply to the population, for adequate social care in the regions, on the ground. [[The speaker shall hold a document on which a graphic is located, in the height]] [[Call the ÖVP: Are you going to a operating business? I hope you never go to a self-service store!]] A depressing development, a steep downhill especially in that area that is located in the service, where we could create jobs, where we could bring social and ecological criteria under one hat with economics. This is the result of federal political failure, but above all – I underline – national misdevelopments. And now, with your shopping center regulation, which refers only to the future and not also to existing, frightened, delayed, really much too slow and too gentle on the brake. Minister! We therefore urgently need a second instrument, a transport generator, which ensures more cost-effectiveness, for which you, as an economic expert, have to act again and again. If people who shop in shopping centres would also have to pay parking fees, this would be equal to those who provide themselves in urban or regional areas. Please use this option to create fair conditions! Make sure that the same framework conditions apply to the dealer at the doorstep and to the green meadow. Cost-effectiveness – efficiency: Signals that send out the economy, which demands the economy and which are very high in the EU, but we in Austria are unfortunately on foot. In this context, I should like to point out that the "Green Paper" on transport in the EU clearly highlights the truth of costs and reminds you that the costs of congestion, congestion, accidents and so on account of 1.5% of GDP, air pollution and noise account for 0.6% of the gross social product. The Union-wide total cost of transport, as a result of the loads caused by transport, amounts to about 250 billion ECU annually. Your coalition paper contains the demand for a road pricing. I do not represent this your variant of road pricing, but accept it as an element, as a confession, to take a first step towards cost truth. I am in favour of the fact that there is justice in that the subsidisation of freight transport on the road is finally reduced and reduced. Road pricing would be an opportunity, but you don't use it. I have no information, no signals that you are progressing in this direction. They are on the brake in this respect and are probably waiting for the Federal Republic of Germany to take on a pioneering role, but there is nothing in this respect. We urgently need a subsidy compensation for road freight transport, but also for passenger transport. There must be efficiency and cost-effectiveness, including with regard to the laws. Finally, what has already been declared by the Commission throughout the EU must be achieved. In this area, Austria has a massive need for re-examination, but also – "reciprocal demand" has now been the key word – when it comes to other framework conditions, namely in ensuring an orderly infrastructure for our economy in the railway sector. They are familiar with the development of the Federal Roadmap Plan and should have already looked through the concept of the Master Plan of the first stage of the implementation of the Federal Roadmap Plan. They know that, especially in the case of rail transport, where railway infrastructure is essential, our railway structures are going back to the period of the monarchy, that 70, 80 years have passed, so to speak, in Austria, by this Parliament, by this government, in which nothing has been done or only minimal steps have been taken in terms of the development of the railway. We therefore now need a new age of founding, which you, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, have to move forward together with the Minister of Transport. The Master Plan foresees 230 billion schilling for the rail, he foresees large railway construction projects – a colleague has already pointed out that. It is necessary to gradually attack the south-east spange, the coral tunnel, the four-track extension of the West Railway. From Oberösterreich, other railway projects – towards the north the Summerauerbahn, railway projects towards the west, the connection via Ried to Braunau towards Munich – are necessary. These would be infrastructure measures that would benefit the entire Austrian economy, framework conditions that would, in particular, promote cost-reliability, efficient transport policy and efficient transport of goods. They know that, from a national economic point of view, rail transport is cheaper than road transport. I know that it looks different in terms of operating conditions. It would be your job to contribute to this Master Plan in its present form and to advance its implementation, so that we have better conditions for the economy for rail transport and find the connection to trans-European networks with the EU. That's a task for you. They could make themselves strong as a box spanner – I emphasize the word "box spanner" – for a technology offensive, which would also have the dimension of providing innovation and jobs through additional research billions, through additional investment billions, especially in energy saving areas and in industry. I would ask you to assume this role and not to continue to represent traditional interests, especially of EIA national leaders.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3888	For business treatment: Mr Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3910	Mr President. Mr Khol von der ÖVP has today sent to Mr Haigermoser in his speech, under the name of Mr Haigermoser, saying that he should stop his 150 million fraud. We have tried, in order to understand the exact wording of what Mr Khol has said, to obtain a pre-print of the protocol, and we now note that the Minutes do not mention precisely these statements made by Mr Khol. The protocol ends exactly where the incriminated statements of Mr Khol begin; it is a great white spot in the transmission of tapes. The stenograph, which I believe should also be asked about, is marked with the accelerator "Wa/Hö". Mr President. As I assume that, as was the case with Mr Moser, who has just spoken, manipulations are to be made on the record, I urgently seek to interrupt the meeting and to carry out a special presidial or a special-presidial parallel to the meeting – but at least to upgrade the tapes to fill this gap in accordance with what has actually been said here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You could also ask a committee of inquiry!]] I cannot accept either, Mr President, and refuse to believe that, like Cavalese, tapes have been deleted. I therefore urge you, Mr President, to update the tapes to determine the original word of Mr Khol's statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3942	Mr Stadler! Your acceptance is completely wrong. If you have a little parliamentary experience, you will know that stenographic protocols are first always made in such a way that only the text is available, and then two or three hours later all intermediate calls are registered. I have been at the presidency since this incident, but I do not have the slightest doubt that the same is being done in this case, and there is no slightest assumption that any manipulations or tapes will be done. These are ideas that simply do not exist in my mind, Mr Deputies. I'm telling you this very clearly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] And that is why I assume, with a 100% certainty, that the adoption of the Stenographical Protocols of the present day is done with the same correctness and care as on all other days. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Again for business treatment, please!]] Would you like to say something again? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e3986	Mr President. I should like to thank you some time ago in your opinion, but we do not have any experience, if I remember the case of Mrs Moser, in which the minutes would have to be corrected later by a decision of the Presidential Conference. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Wait for it to come!]] I now have the impression that the incriminated statements of Mr Khol - I say it again - are to be subsequently amended with this gap. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Awesome!]] I therefore urge you, Mr President, to secure the tapes, because the statements made by Mr Khol are indeed so immense that I feel that they are now embarrassing themselves and that they should therefore be filled up in a different way. I urge you, Mr President, to ensure the tapes. [[Abg. That is inconceivable!]] I would like – and this is now my group's orderly request – that we have the opportunity to listen to the original tone of the tapes with the affected Member Haigermoser himself.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4045	Mr Kostelka has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4067	Mr President. High house! We too have little experience, very little experience, especially with colleagues Stadler. The only thing that is due is an excuse to the officials of this House who are accused of falsifying the protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4097	From this point of view, I would ask the Director of Parliament to inform me of the time when the Stenographical Protocol will be available and to present it to the Bureau without delay. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Does he not know any boundaries at all, Mr. Stadler?]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No, he doesn't know that!]] The next speaker is Mr Peter Marizzi. Speaking time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4168	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the economic debate and, because this has not yet been mentioned, to make a few comments on the vignette. There were major problems in the run-up, but please allow me to take stock: 3 billion Schilling brought the first year, which of course were used for road construction. 12.6 million vignettes have been sold, ladies and gentlemen, and after deduction of taxes and internal costs, about 2.2 billion shilling for our streets. Of the 12.6 million vignettes, 96 percent are for cars, 2 percent for motorcycles and only 2 percent for trucks between 3.5 and 7 tons. 65 percent of sales go towards Austria, 22 percent to Germany and 13 percent to other neighbouring countries. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that 35 percent, if the statistics are true, are also paid by other road users, foreign guests, foreign transit vehicles. Why am I counting all of this? – I'm referring to the "Tyrol Newspaper" of 4. April: What perhaps doesn't have to vote, Minister of State, is the "ASFINAG" plea. I'm not saying that, but let's say, It could be bad for her, because by the year 2002 equity will seem to be consumed. I'm at the road pricing for trucks, ladies and gentlemen. We have discussed in committee, Mrs Tichy-Schreder: congested motorways, high environmental pollution, high conservation costs, no road shift to rail, congestion-induced costs and so on. – That is why, I think, it is necessary for us to think together about a truck-road pricing. Ladies and gentlemen! The construction industry is always in discussion: once it is in the light, once it is in the shadow. There were around 268,000 workers in the construction sector as a whole in 1995, around 3 500 in 1996, 2 000 more in 1997 and 273 500 people – employees, workers, engineers – are expected to be employed in this sector in 1998: due to the care of budgetary policy, first towards investment and, of course, second towards better economic growth. . Here I must thank Mr Farnleitner very much, because of the fact that the chapter Building of course leads to discussions over and over again. From my point of view, I would like to say: It must not be the yellow of the egg: If we get problems through these court proceedings, there are four ways: Either standstill or towing tenders, or foreign multis are pushing more and more into our building markets and our construction industry, or there are mergers – which are of course necessary, but then there are perhaps only two or three large construction companies – or the organized coup is increasing; it is already 9.8 percent of the gross domestic product. That is, Mr Federal Minister, we have to find common legal ways, because in this sector there are about 270 000 employees and their families. We must act quickly to bring dark shadows out of this economy. I personally, ladies and gentlemen, am fully satisfied with the building budget. It is a budget that boosts investment for the Republic, for the country of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4222	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4244	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Federal Minister Farnleitner! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Austria's competitiveness has deteriorated dramatically since its accession to the EU in 1995. [[Abg. Leikam: You don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Leikam: You don't believe that!]] Austria is now ranked as 27th in terms of its competitiveness among 53 countries – these figures are voting. Austria was still in 12th place in 1994. – This is a crucial factor to which a deterioration has occurred. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The risk of the economic location of Austria has led to a sharp increase in unemployment in recent years. There are some comparisons of numbers I would like to read to you: In 1988, unemployment was about 158 000 people, and it rose to 233 000 by 1997. And if you focus on the statements of economic experts, it will continue to rise dramatically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] – For me, Mr Koppler, 75 000 unemployed are too many! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This government is only playing out economic competence and skill, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. To the much-enjoyed "founder wave" of this federal government. [[Abg. Zweytick keeps a document up to date.]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is only paper!]] – No trace of it! Because if you also make changes to the legal form among the registered new growth companies, such as companies, companies that make changes to the legal form, businesses that make industrial changes, or companies that change locations – all these are included in these statistics! This statistics are, of course, falsified. As an additional point I would like to mention mergers between individual companies and, of course, this is a "performance" of the Federal Government – the result of the contract regime. – All these are points that do not give rise to a wave of founders who should stimulate the economy, Minister of State. In this economic policy, only announcements from the Minister of Economic Affairs and "success" are always spoken of. In reality, however, these are not successes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Still, new business founders have to struggle with a bureaucracy that seeks its own in Europe. In Austria, for example, we have about 15,000 approval procedures, while in Germany there are only 6 000 and in the UK only about 360. On average, the duration of these approval procedures is still 12 months in Austria, but only seven months in Germany. – If this is not a bureaucracy or a bad economic policy, then, I believe, we can at least note that no job creation should be given priority. It's always just being innovative. This government is also operating on the back of workers – especially on their backs – a special robbery: In three years, taxes and taxes increased by 30 percent. From 1995, the savings packages increased taxes and taxes by a total of 146.5 billion schilling or by 28.11 percent. – If these are not alarming signs, I don't know what are even alarming signs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition Government, have repeatedly promised to the savings packages that citizens will be asked to register, but that expenditure will also be reduced. This with the expenditure cuts now looks like this at the surface: There is a distorted budget due to the breakdown of the item. Expenditure has not decreased, but has even increased by 38.1 billion schilling within a period of three years. Despite the much-priced work factor, it is still such that it is taxed too much. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We liberals take a different view: We do not want people to be in the foreground, but only products and profits. We want people to be first, because without people there are no products and no profit. You, ladies and gentlemen, are in the process of ruining these people – workers and economic operators – with your economic policy. This budget is nothing but a declaration of bankruptcy of your economic and social policy – and this is being carried out again on the back of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I would rather not talk about bankruptcy and ruin in your place!]] As a Tyrolean Member, I would now like to say a sentence in the direction of Mr Khol: As a Tyrolean Member, I am ashamed of Mr Khol, who is also a Tyrolean Member, and I hope he can get over at least one thing, namely to apologize to our colleague Haigermoser. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And you're not ashamed of someone else?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4385	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4412	Mr President. Federal Minister! I regret this fit march of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would not have said anything that you could not have endured, unless you did not agree with my statement that the Austrian economy is doing great things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] The statistical data prove that, Mr Bauer. An indication of the success of this federal government's economic policy – even if many of us do not like this – is that: There have never been so many jobs in our country! And we're proud of it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Koppler: It is good if you are outside!]] However, employment policy is primarily economic policy. It is about safeguarding Austria's economic location in order to maintain our international competitiveness. Austrian entrepreneurs are well-deserved, reliable and valued all over the world. Mr Peter, if the economic policy of this Federal Government can really indicate success in one area, it is in the field of exports. I hope you can at least agree on this. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Thank you! There was an increase in exports by 16.2 percent; 6,000 joint ventures alone in Hungary. The export rate has risen to 27 percent. All this is an indication of how much our Federal Minister Farnleitner travels around the world day after day to open up new markets for Austrian companies, supported by the foreign trade agencies of the Chamber of Commerce. I would like to stress this and thank him very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already been said today: More entrepreneurs need this country! A self-employed rate of 6.6 percent is too low compared to the EU average. After all, each new entrepreneur creates three to four new jobs. However, entrepreneurs thrive only in a business-friendly climate. I think there is a change in mentality. I ask everyone in this country to give the entrepreneur the priority he deserves. It is unfortunate to call 50 percent of all university visitors their goal of official status. We finally have to put this mentality off to have those companies that we need. This business start-up offensive is encouraging many of the measures that have been put in place in recent years. In this context, I call the new industrial regulation novels, and I stress that the duration of the procedures has been substantially reduced. There is no commercial procedure in Styria alone, which lasts longer than three months. In Salzburg, I am told, this has been reduced to six weeks. We are particularly grateful to the Federal Minister, who has taken these steps that have led to new activities; Nonstop shopping will underline this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what we can't need is unnecessary bureaucracy. Since summer last year, there has been a motion for a resolution here in the National Council calling for a new statistical regulation. We need a statistical load offensive! I would ask the Minister of State to support us here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a few words about the double award. Many businesses are afraid of this double award. She too brings new bureaucracy. Bureaucracy reduces profitability. On the other hand, bureaucracy reduces the revenue we need to encourage young people to return and to make it easier for them to make their own decisions. I also call for social fairness for young entrepreneurs. It is not a question of losing their status as a person in relation to unemployment benefit. I really ask here to seek and find solutions together in order to actually produce social fairness. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is not everything, but without economy everything is nothing. Only successful companies create work and prosperity. Let us create these conditions to create a new culture for entrepreneurship in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4504	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. – He is not in the hall when calling for the speech. [[The Members of the Liberal Group shall return to the Chamber.]] [[Abg. Koppler: It's getting colder again!]] The word reference is therefore not made. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes!]] Deputies! Maybe you could make yourself visible. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer goes towards Rederpult.]] - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4572	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol seems to be evading his responsibilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You have a completely different responsibility!]] This morning he allowed himself a derailment, which is probably unique. Mr Khol! But courage is to admit mistakes and to publicise them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So far, Khol has no courage! This is your group leader. Are you satisfied with a brave leader of the political groups? [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where's yours? In Brazil?]] If he thinks that tact in the appearance and culture in the language he only has to demand from the others, then he is on the wood road. He must go ahead as a clubman with a good example! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Did you say that to your clubman?]] Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Haigermoser for his answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the reality! That is the current situation! But he doesn't have that courage. He doesn't even trust to make himself here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:And the Stadler yesterday? Where's the Stadler?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Hopefully he's not in Brazil! Maybe he's already on the plane!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. Let me make a few general comments on the budget at the outset. Federal Minister! This budget, according to Minister Edlinger's statements, has also been worked on and contributed by half of you, and he has thanked you for it. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: You can't be surprised!]] Nevertheless, I have to say with all appreciation that the 1999 budget, in spite of all the announcements and the notes made by the OECD, the Monetary Fund, the Wifo and the IHS, as well as other institutions and experts, is a continuation of the 1998 budget. The opportunities arising from the upturn in the economy are simply missed, it is, in turn, only unilaterally interpreted. Federal Minister! The government ignores OECD's advocated and called for sustainable budget adjustment. With 2.6 percent re-indebtedness, it also misses the target that it originally set itself, namely a deficit of 1.9 percent. That is to say, in comparison with their own target, there is no amount of 20 billion schilling! Nevertheless, in the end you have to work with tricks – for example, through the transfer of land to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft or through interest profits from retransmissions of long-term debt. Federal Minister! In this way, you and the government are losing out on opportunities for higher growth and low inflation or low interest rates. That is why this proposal is so disappointing! Two savings packages have brought a revenue increase of 147 billion schilling: 107 billion schilling for the federal government and 40 billion schilling for countries and communities. This means that every adult citizen in Austria has to bear an annual additional burden of 25 000 S by means of these savings packages. But the citizen can expect! He is powerful, and he knows that 70 billion schilling in forecast deficit plus at least 107 billion schilling, which in addition to the federal government, results in a total deficit of 177 billion schilling. If you look at the preview you made three or four years ago, you can see that you've been at 143 billion schilling in your then bill. So they're 20 to 30 billion schilling over this brand. The EIA has been advocating that it would have forced a change in expenditure policy by re-election. Federal Minister! The result is that instead of reducing expenditure, two savings packages have practically been asked to cash out to the public. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a great gap between the announcement and reality. 80,000 jobs should be created. However, unemployment has increased from 7 to 7.1 to 7.3 percent. The planned reduction in additional wage costs has also been reversed: There is no reduction, but an increase, depending on the division, between 1.6 and 4.25 percent. The rate of self-employment is almost half as high as the average of the European Union at 6.8 per cent. The "Technology billion" has de facto disintegrated. – I would just like to read an article from the "Presse", an organ that is very close to you. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Are you sure?]] From your former work in the Chamber of Commerce definitely! [[Abg. Haigermoser: 70 million sponsors the Chamber of Commerce!]] ==References== In February, it was noted that the technology offensive had failed. Jealousy between ministries had caused the government offensive to fall. Albert Hochleitner, Siemens-Austria General Director and the government in 1997 commissioned the development of a technology offensive, calling it a "trauer game". The concentration of research and development skills proposed by him, which are currently scattered across various red and black ministries, in a single ministry, does not come about because the coalition parties could not agree on which ministry it was supposed to be. So you can't agree on that. You are always united in attacking the concrete proposals, motions for resolutions and requests of the major opposition party, even the individual Members. We're going to experience that again and again. However, it is not possible to put together and draw up solutions for the future. This is a big problem for the future of Austria! Minister! You can make the data of the World Economic Forum bad so many times and call it irrelevant: If they do not vote exactly on the point, they are correct from the point of view, and the trend is that Austria's competitiveness is falling very much. I still have a lot of documents I'd like to present to you. However, I would like to make the following point: I believe that you are trying very hard to achieve an ElWOG. But only those interventions that come upon me are so different that I doubt whether there is a good compromise. And that's just a steering law. Nothing would change the cost of the electricity industry at all. If you look at the figures and the statistics on competitiveness, you can see that Austria is at the forefront of the industrial electricity price together with Germany, and this will also further re-evaluate competitiveness. Nor do the jubilations of a Member of Parliament benefit from this! [[Abg. Schuster: A good man, very good man!]] I don't know where he's taking this optimism.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4769	Mr Oberhaidinger has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Electricity Economic and Organisation Act has already been addressed several times today. I do not want to deal with this today, because I think we will still have sufficient opportunity to debate it on the occasion of its decision-making in this House. However, I would like to deal with the issue of energy, namely district heating. As you know, 12 percent of all apartments in Austria are currently provided with district heating. The volume of district heating delivered rose by an average of 8 per cent annually from 1990 to 1996. At present, we spend about 11 000 gigawatt hours in district heating. If I remember that in the next few years, and in accordance with international law, we must meet the Kyoto objective in terms of CO2 emissions, I must say: We should not lose sight of the importance of district heating. In my opinion, there is enough waste to be used in agglomerations, which is why I strongly advocate further expansion of district heating. If only 1 000 km more district heating lines were built, this would increase district heating production by more than 25 percent. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, the Federal Government's support for this has been exhausted for some time. I know. However, it would be quite possible to establish a corresponding support for the countries through the share of energy in the energy levy. I would have liked to know from you how many means your information is going to promote district heating. How has the awarding practice developed, and does the Ministry of Economic Affairs still provide concrete assistance? I believe that the Federal Government should be more involved in the coordination of the heat market, first of all because of the achievement of the Kyoto target already addressed, and secondly, because, as I believe, the synergies that arise between electricity and gas companies could be quite useful in the merger of companies within the meaning of an Austrian solution. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not in itself my way of deviating from the agenda, but I must say that I am somewhat disappointed today: At the beginning of the meeting, it was supposed to have been a fishing observation; Mr Trenk was to be praised as a free representative. – As I hear it, however, he is ill. In view of the press reports, I suspect that he is politically "sick". It has become apparent that he has great problems with his personal financial conduct. [[Abg. Leikam: Again!]] He did not pay his rent, a forced clearance could only be stopped with the transfer of a substantial amount. His personal past, too, would have fit quite well in the picture of what we are gradually experiencing from the highly incriminated Freedom Party of Lower Austria. His punishment – I emphasize that – has been eliminated, but there have been some incidents in 1985 – fraud, non-commitment payments – for which he was in prison for a total of two years. I therefore believe that he is politically "sick" so that he does not have to be praised today and can, in turn, make room, i.e. withdraw. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You'll be more and more difficult to fill the empty places in your ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4831	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e4874	Mr President. – Unfortunately, the Minister is no longer present. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: He'll be back soon!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can recommend that you take care of your own Members and take an example in your behaviour of the liberal and their way of solving problems if they appear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They solve your problems by sitting out and hiding behind your immunity. [[Abg. Großruck: We have no problems!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Firlinger: Also the khol!]] I am almost grateful for the fact that Mr Klubobmann Khol... [[Abg. Dr. Khol enters the meeting room.]] Now he's coming! I thought you were saving me your sight. [[Call the SPÖ:Au woe!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Mr Stadler, our clubman, has been right in saying that you are not an honorary man! If you have only one spark, stand by and apologise. It's no way, it's not even a last-class way of dealing with my colleague Haigermoser in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: And Stadler to Marizzi yesterday?]] I don't measure differently, but: These are personal and completely inappropriate interventions of the clubman Stadler......no, the clubman Khol! [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Yes, that was right!]] Every group deserves the clubman it has. I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Mr. Hofmann! Sustained is only the rumpold!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you would like to speak, please add to the speaker list. Federal Minister! The problem of local supply, the shopping centre regulation – Farnleitner Regulation – has already been addressed. I would like to make a few points. There is no doubt that the political framework has led to the situation that makes the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises in centres a problem today. Unfortunately God's decree came very late, and unfortunately God's were given 30. In June, a large number of projects will be submitted, so to speak. In my district town of Vöcklabruck there were about in 1992 including the already existing centres 52 000 m2 of sales space, today we have 100 000 m2 of sales space, another 27 000 m2 are under construction. The Centre's economic operators thus have unhealthy conditions. I regret that the "Entrepreneurship Party" (ÖVP) at local level continues this bad path in terms of local development, which is the result of the creation of shopping centres, by burdening the small economic operators, who cannot do anything about it, with responsibility. – There is a very simple explanation: It can and must not be the causal problem that some entrepreneurs are not economically successful in their operations. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs! If the interest in being economically active in the centres would be great, then immediately the next would be there! A store would just be bought, leased or rented. But there would be a fundamental interest in it. The fact is that more and more shops are being closed and the economy is very, very problematic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] Since the time – unfortunately God! – I would like to make a few comments on the ElWOG very quickly. Federal Minister! They would indeed have had the opportunity to introduce, through restructuring, a meaningful market opening, a meaningful competition in the field of protected e-commerce. – However, this has not happened. Rather, it is to be heard that there is to be a protection of the large hydropower – that is to say, in the clear text: another burden on the plants, a further burden on the industry. I ask you: Why Look You're not going to Norway? There, 90 percent of the energy from hydropower is generated, at cheaper prices than in Austria – not to mention the beached investments, the Stranded Investments, which will also lead to a competitive disadvantage for all businesses, including small customers, to the final customer. You seem to have forgotten the renewable energy sector. I have taken your statement that by creating small local networks you want to form a market in the market, so to speak, we liberals understand the access to renewable energy differently, namely the form of a sensible federal uniform solution, with reasonable feed subsidies granted to the feeders. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5039	Mr Ellmauer has now come to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5060	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much to the officials of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs for the good cooperation and preparation of the budget documents! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A prerequisite for a prosperous economy, and thus for securing and creating jobs, is an intact infrastructure, and this needs to be further improved and expanded. The development of freight transport is an indicator for the whole economy, which will continue to be characterised by increases in productivity and service. Investment in the infrastructure of a state is investment in the good future of its citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The increase in the budget for the expansion and maintenance of federal roads by 2% is a welcome one, for which I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister. I hope that this increase will be even greater in the next budget. Tourism and local authorities continue to call for priority to be given to local transport. The guest still likes to come by car or bus. It appreciates its mobility and therefore expects modern connections. But not only do guests suffer from the high traffic density and congestion in local travels, but also the domestic population; the traffic load often exceeds the tolerable level. Over the last 15 years, traffic density has increased by more than 80 percent, and it is therefore important to take measures to ensure that we are able to return to an acceptable level for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The use of modern information technologies is also important in the tourism sector, for example, Internet appearance with its own homepage. In addition, it should be possible not only to obtain information via the Internet, but also to book at the same time. Tourism companies operating on their own incomes should be better encouraged. Federal Minister! In this context, the tourism check, which your ministry has prepared here, is a commendable initiative to deal with new competitions, to strengthen the adaptability of the Austrian tourism offer to the new market requirements, to participate in sales and sales trips, as well as to visit travel agencies including electronic networking and reservation and booking opportunities, as well as the already mentioned internet presence. The corresponding funding is 75 000 S per promoter per year, in the form of a one-time payment. Formless applications can already be submitted and apply retroactively with 1. March of this year. This will also allow smaller family businesses to participate in this action without any particular effort. This is an example of deregulation, close proximity to citizens and effective promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5129	Mr Parnigoni has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5151	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words on tourism policy. I believe that the winter half-year has developed very positively, that the efforts of this sector, but also the efforts of "Austrian advertising", have been successful, that the new line has been maintained and that cooperation has led to an important step forward, as I hope. I am also convinced that setting the emphasis on cooperation was a right decision, a decision which we have played a very important part in. I believe, Minister of State, that we now have to be more motivated by the fact that regional tourism organisations are also being implemented, so that this infrastructure in tourism is organised in a decisive manner and that it can carry out its professional task. There are some good examples, but I think it should be more pressured to move forward. Furthermore, the question of the tourism check, which was just praised by my previous speaker. Federal Minister! I am in favour of any support measure, but I feel that it is not yet entirely depleted, because the danger of it being a so-called travel voucher for entrepreneurs is, I believe, given. We should create very clear criteria for which a person will receive funding. And I ask you, Minister of State, to create clarity. I hear of many billion schillings that you repeatedly bring into the discussion with which you want to take restructuring measures. There are discussions that various banks, different institutions, should deal with this. I think it is a real professional bank that is capable of fulfilling this task. She has the know-how, the expertise, and she also has the relevant professionals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me add one more comment as a transport speaker. I believe that it is also important, Mr Federal Minister, that we come closer to the truth of costs, and that we urgently need road pricing for trucks, so that there is finally equal opportunities. There is a rail pricing on the rails, there is a fee for use. In the field of freight transport, there is also a need to pay a transport-related fee for trucks as well as equal opportunities for foreign trucks operating on high-level road networks today, almost without a schilling. Last comment: I would simply like to strengthen and congratulate Mr Hofmann on his truly true statement, on his joyous performance, namely that Klubobmann Stadler is constantly acting with his own personal opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5204	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5225	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Following the continuing difficulties in Austrian tourism in the early 1990s, a trend change in the second half of 1997 could be achieved for the first time. The first facts that prove a positive change in Austrian tourism are on the table. In the summer season, tourism revenues were for the first time 4.5 percent higher than in 1996 and reached 90.8 billion schilling. In general, the annual average of tourism revenues could be increased by two-quarters or 183 billion schilling. In Austria, there is a minimum of 3.4 percent. However, the Styria – I am very pleased to see this – has an increase of 0.8 percent. I'm allowed to go a little closer to that. I am also pleased that in the summer of 1997 our tourist resort was able to contribute with half a percent and a half-percent as well as in the winter season 1997/98, plus 6.3 percent to this good result. The meaning of my speech is the events. I would just like to point out in these few minutes the importance of the events, the major events. In the summer of 1997, we were able to achieve a positive result because we focused on 40 events and offered international wind music, symphonic wind music. There were 42,000 visitors, a platform for musicians, composers, conductors, publishers and for the guests, for the audience – that is important – a cooperation on the spot of culture and tourism. The second event – we have already talked about this – which took place in winter and with which we were able to achieve such a great success was the World Ski Cup. Night slalom with 30,000 visitors, two Super-G with 20,000 more visitors, that makes 50,000 visitors, television advertising around the world and strengthening the local economy through significant sales on site. The local innkeepers had taken care of the stands. What do I want to say? – Minister! It's perfectly right to put on events. And I thank you personally for the good cooperation with you, with your house. I also thank the Austrian Municipal Association for its great cooperation in the area of tourism, especially with Dr. Musyl and Mrs. Minister Einicher. This is proof that if we continue to stand together and maintain the natural cooperation and partnership – that is the economy, that is the community, that is the region and the organization, the countries and the federal government – we certainly cannot stop anything from further successful tourism development. We have a well-developed infrastructure in our communities, trained, motivated and well-informed professionals, a positive tourism family – you always have to work on it – to offer well-kept cultural landscapes, a broad cultural and sporting range with high environmental standards as well as quality in the accommodation and gastronomy sector. And with events, with major events, we will, in turn, make an important contribution to the fact that Austria becomes a tourism country number one in Europe. – Thank you very much for these positive contributions!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5269	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Merchant. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5290	Mr President. Minister! A few brief remarks: First of all, on Euro: The euro certainly represents a great opportunity for the Austrian economy and a chance for all of us. But there is still a particular danger: the risk of price increases in the course of the introduction of the euro. This danger results from the fact that, of course, some people will have the tendency to round up rather than finish the conversion process. And this danger of a special price basket will only be met if the customer has the opportunity to realize at a glance that the prices are actually the same. And it will only have this possibility if there is a price award in Schilling if the euro is effective, that is, if there is a double price award. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This double award is first of all important to ensure that there is a total price increase. It could make up a few percentage points. Secondly, it is important to ensure that there is a general acceptance of the euro. And thirdly, this is an agreement between the coalition parties. But it can't be, Mr Minister, that you only seem to comply with this agreement by allowing 80 per cent of entrepreneurs to make use of an exception, but this double pricing should be carried out as smoothly as possible and with only very few exceptions. Second point: Road construction, B 301. Minister! We all know that road transport will increase enormously, especially in freight transport and, above all, in the East-West transit. It will be necessary for Vienna to get around accordingly. Therefore, the B 301 is also necessary. But, Minister, the B 301 will only be fully accepted if one makes it clear that the entire burden of East-West transit does not have to be borne by the south of Vienna alone. We really need a ring around Vienna, and we therefore need a south and north crossing. But this north crossing will only be possible if there is a sixth Danube bridge east of Vienna and the bridge in Traismauer. Therefore, these two projects are particularly necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point – I am unfortunately quite at the end of my speaking time – is the Sunday opening. Minister! It is true that this Sunday opening does not need anyone at all. The Sunday opening is not wanted by the economy, only by a few companies that want to maximize sales at the expense of others, and also the population – I refer to the Multiplex area – does not want it. There is an illegal regulation of the head of state in Lower Austria which introduces this Sunday opening. Minister! It falls into the middle federal administration. They therefore have the opportunity to repeal this regulation by the head of state Pröll. They also made it clear in an answer to a question that there must be a regional need. The regional need for the Sunday opening is the need of the people from Mödling and Wiener Neudorf for the products in the multiplex. And it is perfectly clear that no one in Wiener Neudorf and Mödling needs to buy a carpet for example on Sunday. It must therefore be clear to everyone that this Regulation is illegal. I urge you to act there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: Mr Minister, if you already tend to believe that in the economy everyone can do as he wants – I am not of this opinion, you certainly not quite – then do not do away with what works well anyway, and these are the tent festivals and the festivals of associations throughout Austria, especially of non-profit associations. Let these work as they have done so so far, let them create revenue in that way as before, and in this point also change the trade order! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5362	Mr Kampichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5384	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaufmann, the head of state of Lower Austria, is not in favour of being locked up and worked on Sunday, but the head of state has solved only a problem that has arisen from the fact that Multiplex is a tourist establishment and is located directly next to a tourist area. [[Call the SPÖ:No na!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] We are, of course, also – as is the case with the head of state Pröll – in order to ensure that Sunday is closed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of the economy gives me the opportunity now to make a number of points which are particularly important to me as an employee, and to show some factors that have contributed to the very good success of our economic development in recent years. Of course, there are a lot of factors that have contributed to this – many of our economic development have already been addressed today – that we can enjoy these successes today. First and foremost, it is certainly the willingness and the will of the Austrians to achieve this success. But also the coalition, ladies and gentlemen, has made a very important contribution to this. The radical change of course, which this coalition government made after the 1995 election, had very significant consequences, even though it does not fit Mr Nußbaumer, who unfortunately is not in the hall of God at the moment. Rehabilitation of state finances and targeted privatisation initiatives are already bearing their fruit. In addition, participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union brings us further advantages of location. There is a dramatic increase in the direct investment of foreign entrepreneurs in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have lost 80 000 jobs as a whole by opening up borders in the East, but these were rather inferior jobs at a very low level of wages. However, we have gained 100 000 highly qualified and well-advanced new jobs through the new location advantages within the European Union. In addition, favourable exchange rate developments in our economy have also brought benefits to the main trading partners in unit labour costs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have become more competitive overall. Our position on the market has improved. Exports are on the rise and have become the carrier of our economy. The real income of Austrians is projected to increase by 1.7 percent in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A group will benefit very much in the near future – thank God! – that is, the families. They will also have 12 billion schilling available and will thus revive the economy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This important family policy measure also has an impact on the economy. What's going to happen? Where are there any problems? We are currently looking forward to the highest levels of employment, but we must also note that the unemployment rate is at a level of concern. That is why my family, the ÖAAB, has decided on a priority plan for employment to be implemented gradually. We must fight youth unemployment, we must try to make it easier for women to get back into work after the end of the career, and we must start with over 50 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is in the interests of the economy if as many people as possible have a good income, because the purchasing power of the citizens is the best foundation for our economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5437	Mr Mag. Kaufmann has sought an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5462	Mr President. The Member of Parliament, Mr Kampichler, has claimed that this regulation has become necessary in the Multiplex area because it concerns a tourist establishment. I'll put it right: Wiener Neudorf – Multiplex is located in the areas of Wiener Neudorf – is not a tourist community. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: He said: a tourist facility!]] That is why this regulation was not necessary at all. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: He spoke of Wiener Neudorf! He said that's a tourist establishment!]] But the multiplex is located in a community, and the community where the multiplex facility is located is...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5508	Mr deputies, do not let the corrective action be taken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5540	I'm correcting! It is therefore not a matter of fact tourism, but of the fact that the head of state has obviously wanted it - against the will of the trade unions, against the will of the economy, against the will of your organization, the ÖAAB, and also against the will of Catholic institutions. [[Call the ÖVP: This is a word message!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5582	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please. 11th@item: inlistbox 53
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5600	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Regional economic policy in the border regions – my topic – must draw our particular attention to the coming years, 1999 and the following, since it is a question of providing the best possible framework for these border regions in the framework of structural reforms. It is about regions such as the beautiful Mühlviertel in Upper Austria or the no less beautiful Waldviertel in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank you, Mr Colleague.]] This has nothing to do with nationalist protectionism. Rather, it is important to use the forthcoming EU Presidency of Austria and to maintain and strengthen the interests of the border regions in the reorganisation of EU structural funding from 1999 onwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The burden of EU enlargement, due to the wide differences in economic, environmental and social standards, must be offset in order to prevent the relocation of farms, on the one hand, and to reduce labour market pressure, in particular the pressure created by day-to-day commuting in these border regions. Although this eastern enlargement will bring long-term benefits to security policy and economic policy, and also to the rapid economic growth of the candidate countries – a Wifo study assumes that the economy of the Eastern countries will grow by 3.5 percentage points faster than ours – it is necessary to create longer transition periods for day-to-day commuting with regard to the free movement of immigration. According to a Wifo study, it is best to solve this problem if full free movement occurs gradually until 2015. We will then need the 30 000 workers very urgently if we can give the prediction that the number of working people will have fallen by 650 000 by this time in Austria. Significant assessment criteria for the deadlines for granting these EU freedoms with a repeated review – I would like to stress that with repeated review! – the approximation of the regions must be introduced. The structural reform of the European Union within the framework of the Agenda must be monitored and monitored from an Austrian point of view, so that what is being heard is not true today and what is being valued today, namely that this reform of the Structural Funds causes Austria a damage of 4.8 billion schilling. The example of Upper Austria shows that the fact that the border region had to bear the main burden of the east opening has already led to the economic recovery process there. In Upper Austria, there is a strong focus on the production of property, and thus this production is under severe competitive pressure, especially from the Eastern countries, which between 1991 and 1995 led to the closure of 69 farms and also to a significant flow of purchasing power. Migration from the border regions can only be prevented by jobs in the regions or within reach. This means, however, targeted support for small, small and medium-sized enterprises, promotion of cooperation in the field of marketing, training and training of employees, advice and promotion in connection with access to international markets. However, to prevent the demigration of workers and businesses, a targeted expansion of public transport and transport infrastructure is an essential basis for regional economic policy in these regions. The number of jobs is known to be very low, the number of counterparts in these regions very, very high. For the commuters who get up at three and a half o'clock in the morning to go to work, and spend four hours daily on poorly developed roads in the bus, this is a daily nuisance, and they will finally capitulate and migrate from these regions. How important transport policy as a regional policy for businesses is, the example of Ennshafen as Austria's largest settlement area shows. I will not stop talking about this until jobs are made possible there. Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands of jobs can only be realized there if, at last, effective transport links are created, jobs which, especially from the border regions Mühlviertel and North-West Waldviertel, reduce the way to the workplace. Thus, it is by no means always important only to cross-regional, large high-performance roads and trans-European networks, but often the small, punctual, intelligent transport policy contributes very much to the economic quality of the location and thus to the fact that these border regions are not depopulated. A brief comment on the debate on the tent celebrations. Federal Minister! We must not prevent these tent festivals in the future. For these frontier regions in particular, the social peaks are the ones, and if you do not allow them there, then social life will die there. Federal Minister! A brief comment. You said yesterday in the "ZiB 2" when it came to the electricity price and phone costs: From now on it went downhill. – I hope that this does not apply to border regions too. Let us, together, try to see it go uphill in these border regions from now on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5646	Mr Zweytick has now come to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5667	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's very bad that the "F" is not there. I would have liked the "F" to go back to Parliament and share these important decisions today. Now we're alone. I understand that on the fourth day the nerves are somewhat white. This is no wonder after the events of the last few days, especially in plenary. Only: I can't understand this "F" Kasperl Theatre. Or does it consider the economic budget to be important measures to maintain employment and, above all, not important for the responsible entrepreneurs to support our economy? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The circle of the liberal economy, which was recently established, should think differently. A few remarks to the previous speaker. I think there is no danger at all that the tents will be damaged. There is no statement in the direction that we want to prevent these feasts. On the contrary: We too believe that these feasts must be preserved. As far as the double award is concerned, I must say that in my opinion, each one must try to cope with these changes. After it all hits, it also applies to everyone. And after the large trade chains declare themselves ready to guarantee a double price award over several months, unlike most other EU Member States, we should leave it to the smaller entrepreneurs themselves, whether they want a double price award or not. In any case, a double price award costs a lot of money, and that is why the economy is being taxed again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises would be burdened by this, and we are trying to promote and not tax precisely these companies. You know: If you go to Italy, go to Greece on vacation, you have nowhere a double award, but You will automatically find yourself after two days. We're in the 20th century. It should not have any more problems with this. Let us also allow the economy enough free space and do not burden it by means of a relevant legal regulation! Jobs, ladies and gentlemen, are created by successful enterprises. Let us – with this I mean to our politicians – create the necessary framework conditions for a new culture of entrepreneurship, and give the strong Austrian economy a chance to become even stronger! Thanks to God, after a very difficult phase, we succeeded in boosting economic growth again, no question. Nevertheless, we must not rest on our laurels, because it is not only about the famous shareholder value, but especially about jobs. We do not only operate for our sakes, but responsible economies must have in mind the well-being of people. Since work for the individual means a high level of meaning and is the financial basis of life, it must be our primary task to create jobs. The fact is that companies, as well as workers, need to adapt to many changes and make great efforts to adapt to the new circumstances. Technological development is progressing with huge steps, and it is difficult for everyone to change to new working conditions. No question. But that's why we can't put the head in the sand. In order to be one of the leading economic countries in the future, we must consistently follow the path we are taking – but indeed consistently! – continue, and that is to say, the development of modern services, the promotion of modern technologies, the facilitation of business start-ups, the promotion of young entrepreneurs. And that's just what I'm thinking: Today's "Small Newspaper" under the big headline "Rosenstingl's Brother" reports only very small of a measure that helps our young entrepreneurs in particular: In the first three years, the minimum insurance base for them is reduced from currently 13 400 S to 7 400 S per month. That is a signal for our economy, for the young entrepreneurs, that is a clear sign, and I thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Key to the economic future, especially for the south of Austria – I come from Styria – for Carinthia and in further succession for this European region, of course, will be the expansion of the Semmering Base Tunnel, which I fully support for this reason. It cannot be that, as was the case yesterday, an ÖBB general claims, he sees no need for it at all and rejects the coral tunnel in advance. In my opinion, as a general general, he should market his company better and give it a new outfit, he should try to make the trains faster in this country. If he thinks that the Koralm Tunnel is not necessary, this is at the same time an attack on the Semmering Tunnel, because otherwise there would be no second track and no terminal in Werndorf and thus not the most important part of the South Railway, namely the Koralm Tunnel. That can't be, and I think that an ÖBB general should take care of the things he's responsible for, and make fewer thoughts about what's necessary to secure the economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also in favour of the essential support for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, for it is precisely these who create jobs in Austria. It is not only the financial support under the EU co-financed programmes that should be welcomed, but also any simplification and reduction of public authorities should be considered as positive. As one of the countries of southern Styria, I believe that, before the European Union's forthcoming enlargement to the south, in other regions to the east, new partners will be involved in this large economic area in future. That is why Mrs Landeshauptmann Waltraud Klasnicin's call for the European Commission, Commissioner Wulf-Mathies, is quite entitled to support the border area in order to obtain additional security and remuneration for these regions. It is not clear that there will be no discrepancies which could endanger the economic location there. I also call on the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government as a whole to move forward with economic action. We should not wait until 2005, until just before accession, and then we should do something, but we must already secure businesses before. We must make national funds available, we must develop offensives, but not just the day before, but years before, in order to strengthen the economy. I would ask you to take these intentions seriously and to continue to do so. It is absolutely essential to support measures to expand the technology and research sector, as we have a clear deficit in international comparison in this area, but precisely because the future lies. The proposed programme to promote competence centres, such as the Wooden-Steiermark competence network, would be a step in the right direction. Economic success can only be ensured in the future if we succeed in creating a new culture of employability. That means a qualification offensive is necessary. We know that an employee changes the job on average three to five times during his working life. Thus, in the course of his life, he must acquire new skills in order to remain traceable. Responsibility for continuing training must be shared by the employer and the employee. I believe that we should provide incentives for the use of educational measures by increasing tax deductibility of continuing training costs. I am convinced that in the proposed budget, Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner has set the right emphasis to further promote and secure positive economic development in Austria. I would like to conclude by thanking you very much for the good cooperation with the staff of Minister Farnleitner and for the cohesion and wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5772	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5794	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A short while to my colleague, Zweytick. Preaching wine and giving water is one thing, and if you promise here that you want to do everything to keep the clubs alive, then you have the opportunity to support the request only. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Chapter 64 I can devote myself to two Burgenland issues, the first to the Burgenische Kasernen. Federal Minister! I cannot resist the impression that at least the Turkish barracks are unloving children by the competent ministers. There is permanent uncertainty by the announcements to close barracks, but then not to close them. I am pleased that, at least now, it is true that they should not be closed. There are very different internal opinions. They believe that in 20 years they can still retire where they work today. The others believe that the Easter enlargement will bring about a change. No matter what time is right, these are dates that lie far in the future. As I believe, the enlargement of the East will take place at the earliest in the second half of the next decade, and the Burgenland will also support the conservation of the sites, on the one hand from considerations of employment and on the other from economic considerations. But I believe that it is necessary to provide already decent jobs and, above all, decent accommodation for our soldiers. I believe that they too are entitled to do so. I admit that many resources are already being used for this, namely the Ministry of State Defense and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but believe that this budget is not sufficiently coordinated. There are promised investments that are stopped to be released again, then there are funds that cannot be installed. There are institutions where nothing is invested, where there is a great need for action, and then it is back to the officials that they transfer the funds in such a way that nothing bad happens. I think there is a very unloving investment, and it does not give the impression that there should be permanent investment. This leads to new uncertainties. I should like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to influence your colleagues in the government, that a reasonable and generally accepted barracks concept be drawn up very quickly, which will then also enable us to use the resources in a targeted and economic manner, so that we will finally have failed to put in the sand the significant resources in millions of dollars that are now being invested. On the second subject: Transport area "Bundesstraßen im Burgenland". In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, I can confirm the satisfaction of the country. You have a good name in Burgenland. At present, there is only one issue that you do not consider enough, and this must now be addressed. If we are not able to do this now, we will have great problems in a few years. My colleague, Mr Kaufmann, has already pointed out: It is about dealing with East-West transport, specifically in the north of the Burgenland. As you know, there have already been a lot of intermediate services. Of course, the development of road infrastructure is also closely linked to the attractive expansion of international rail links. Of course, a partial shift of traffic flows in the field of passenger and freight transport is to be expected. However, it is clear that even in the case of optimal pricing and timetable design, only about 30 percent of the traffic volume can be shifted. The forecasts for 2015 speak of a huge dimension, so that there is a need for action in the street area. Investigations have already fixed a corresponding route more or less than the best, namely a two-track federal road north of German Haslau. It also seems certain that there will hardly be any conflict in over 80 percent of the course, in none of the areas, such as green areas, biotopes, nature conservation, groundwater, surface waters, recreation, tourism and settlement space. There are other planning steps that provide for the creation of a general project. The environmental concerns are examined in a detailed way. Of course, the protection of the landscape, nature and habitat of people in the necessary EIA procedures must be given great attention. The 1995 general study has already been approved. In addition, discussions have already been held with the Lower Austrian and Burgenan communities and also with the citizens' initiatives in the previous year on possible route tours. The aerial evaluation was also arranged by Burgenland and Lower Austria. The preparation of the pre-project will also be commissioned shortly. I believe that, in the close connection with this team, the implementation of the road construction measures in the area of Vienna stands. The expansion of the B 301 as well as the Spange Kittsee – A 4 is absolutely necessary, as mentioned earlier, in order to prevent international traffic from moving to the route of the B 50 between Neusiedl and Eisenstadt – a situation that we have to oppose very massively. I am convinced, Minister of State, that it is also in your sense that this situation does not occur. I should therefore like to ask you to start this planning very quickly and clarify the funding so that the appropriate funds are available for it soon. I should like to thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5873	Mr Dr. Schwimmer came to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5894	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was of the opinion, until today, that the meetings of the last few days have only remained unpunished by Mr Rosenstingl. Apparently, even those liberal Members who have aged artificially here on the call for Dr. Khol's intercession should not have been here in the last few days and should not have followed the debate of the Freedom Party. To avoid misunderstandings: I do not believe that anyone would have the right to strike back with the same coin, like Mr Stadler, in this House. I believe that the policy of all-round diffamation, all-round defamation, of all-personalizing is a most personal privilege of Mr. Dr. Ewald Stadler is and cannot be used by anyone else in this House. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Gaál and Mr Marizzi on his work.]] However, I call on other FPÖ Members from the debates of the last days, which I take more seriously than Mr Stadler. Mr Krüger made the following statements in yesterday's debate: "It must be legitimate to show human interrelationships." Mr Krüger said that it was a fact that XY – then a name follows – had a joint venture with the sponsor of the 200 million schillings. He then took the right to submit to criminal acts. Dr. Khol didn't do that! However, it must be legitimate to show human relationships that actually exist. It must also be legitimate to show the following facts: According to a public statement from another liberal Member, the private foundation "Free Living" is very serious, namely Dr. Ofner, a FPÖ foundation. This FPÖ Foundation, with its "Holiday Home", in which the sponsor of the 500 million Schilling, Mr. Rosenstingl, is involved, has a joint company, which has still used the common utility under the housing law. These personal links and these facts will still be shown by calling on Mr Haigermoser to bring order into the chaos of the interconnectedness of this - liberal housing empire would be too much said - liberal housing. It is necessary to create order there. In the meantime, the fact that criminal matters have also occurred there is notable. I quote from the summary assessment of the examiners: The managing director has failed to comply with the obligations under the law and company contract. – This is the non-profit housing company "Free Living", where the FPÖ Foundation owns 75 percent. The same applies to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has failed to comply with its statutory contractual obligations. Supervisory Board Ing. Fritz Uher, Dr. Karl Katary, Dkfm. Edwin Rambossec, Mag. Erich Schreiner, Karl Schwab, Gottfried Waldhäusl, Ewald Schichor, Bernhard Gratzer keine Personenlungen mit der Niederösterreichische FPÖ? But it's getting much thicker. According to § 9 of the WGG, construction associations must not be under the most influence of members of the construction industry. The actual majority of members of the construction industry, regardless of whether the vote is 25 percent, are also harmful according to WGG. Furthermore, Mr Haigermoser is not allowed to get upset in the case of the members of the construction industry, who have already been sentenced by court for fraudulent price agreement and for fraudulently overpriced prices. The fact that the same has also been repeated in the FPÖ housing company "Free living" is also reflected in the conclusions. The agreements with minority shareholder "Holiday Home", word Rosenstingl, are as follows: Benefits to be provided had not been designed within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on the Nobleness of Residences. There are no proofs of performance of the flat-rate accreditations carried out. The accommodations were partly above the fees calculated by the production costs after completion of the objects before construction began. Too high fees must therefore be recovered. Society is agreed on economics and, in truth, society is already insolvent. The conduct of the association does not comply with the legal provisions applicable to it. This is the chaos in which Mr. Haigermoser, if he wants, should bring order. I can tell Mr Hofmann: In our housing policy, we will certainly not comply with his call to follow the example of the liberals, because this would be a dangerous threat to those who hope for a decent and decent housing in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e5988	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6009	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to follow up on the statements made by my previous speaker and briefly address the situation in the liberals at the beginning of my debate. I believe that the liberal scandal in Lower Austria, which now results in the collapse of companies and the bankruptcy of companies, has yet another aspect to be highlighted, namely the fact that in these companies, which may not be available soon, which may have to register the bankruptcy, workers are also employed, and these are, in fact, the poorest in all history. So you can say: Jobs were threatened by freedom of movement and free movement of politicians. You can get this to one point: Freedom politicians and the Freedom Party actually destroyed jobs in our country, namely in these businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Which one?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economy and the working world are exposed to structural change. The change leads to many people being affected by it. There is uncertainty and the workers are afraid of their jobs. But it also plays profit and hope for the fast money, on the quick gain with a role. Two figures: In 1980 we were able to see the statistics that 260 000 people in our country once a year changed their jobs, once a year were at risk of unemployment. Last year it was already 720 000 people. So the fluctuations have multiplied, and this of course also leads to more fear. I have said that there are also people who, in such a situation, are trying to make profit, who disregard the rules to benefit from them, namely rules on commercial rights, social standards rules, rules also in the field of taxation and financial matters. Who are these rulesmen? – In my opinion, these regularists are some – I emphasize: some! – Entrepreneurs who simply compete unfairly, who are best organised in the market, and workers, often also foreign workers, are unannounced, that is, illegally employed and often exploited. However, sufferers are not only those concerned, but above all also the correct business. As a result, there are distortions of competition, non-deduction of social security contributions and the State in the form of non-delivery tax benefits. That is why, I believe, and I look at you once again, Federal Minister, we need new tools to remedy the maladministration of illegal employment. This maladministration is getting bigger and bigger. It is particularly visible in an organized form – for example in the construction sector and in the metal industry – and it can no longer be tolerated. We therefore expect the relevant departments and, therefore, your place of business to draw up proposals without delay, how best to deal with this situation, how to combat organized illegal employment. In my opinion, it is necessary to introduce control – we certainly need a different government structure – further in the harmonisation of criminal proceedings, in the recovery of the economic advantage, where there must be immediate sanctions, including criminal law, when it comes to gross infringements. We also need a better review of suspicious border crossings in these areas, and above all, I believe that a long-term Austrian-wide business disaster is to be introduced, in which proper and properly managed businesses can be registered, in order to be able to gain the appropriate benefits in the awarding of those not correctly managed. Many businessmen complain and think: If nothing happens, we ourselves have to employ workers semi-illicitly or illegally in order not to go down! That should be a warning enough to take this issue very seriously and to come up with solutions quickly. I mean, it would also be necessary to create a separate law to combat organized illegal employment. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should jointly ensure that there is no protection for establishments in the shade and also in the shade, and that we should support those companies that comply with the rules and conduct themselves correctly in economic life. I believe that this issue is important enough to be dealt with in a budget debate too, and I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to comment briefly on it in your conclusions. Mr. Federal Minister! I would, however, like to address you briefly on a subject. This is about vocational training, about the important part of the safety net in the dual training we want, namely the independent training facilities. As you know, regulations from your resort are necessary by you personally in order to actually fulfill these institutions with life. The so-called operating permit for self-employed training facilities is required by a regulation. In my opinion, the last regulation you adopted concerning the teaching workshop Fohnsdorf contains conditions for which no legal cover is available. There is no legal basis for requiring in a regulation what the apprentices actually have to receive in compensation. There is a passport inside which I think I should not find a place in a regulation, nor where this apprentice compensation is not financed by the budget of your resort, but by other means that come from other channels. I would ask you to take this as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6053	I call Mr Wallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6074	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use today's debate to deal with the "Industry" theme complex and, above all, with the steel industry. I believe that we can all be proud of the development of the steel industry. Hellmut Longin, a born Leobener, the head of the "Bergbau und Stahl" association, has announced the proud figures in his annual press conference. Production rose by 16.6 percent last year, to 15.2 million tonnes. Especially interesting for the largest steel producer in Austria, the VOEST Alpine Steel, is the distribution of long and flat products. As a representative of the highest industrial region in Ireland, I am particularly pleased that an increase of 22.6 percent has been achieved where the long products are produced. Of course, the increase in the flat area in Linz is also very positive with 16.2 percent. The reason for this is a boom of the car industry and the electrical equipment industry, i.e. those industries that need the sheet metal from Linz in particular. However, the investments made across Europe for the development of railways also favour production in Obersteiermark, Donawitz. What you will also be interested in is that increasingly more rolling wire – per car already up to 60 kilograms – is used for automotive production. Ladies and gentlemen! The steel industry was able to maintain price increases, but still had to give in to the rationalization pressure, so that the workforce was reduced by 3.2 percent and now employs around 12 500 employees in the Austrian steel industry. I shall come to the second part of my statement and say what this means for the Styrian industry, especially in the Upper Styria. The population there has a particularly high rate of emigration, the highest in all of Austria, and therefore every single measure to ensure location and improve the workplace situation is particularly important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can see again: The Social Democracy is behind the Upper Steermark. – I thank you for this and I will announce it to the public. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Of course, the liberals show less interest because they are concerned with removing their shards, which have recently been produced here. Ladies and gentlemen! It could be achieved that a major investment, which we dare not to expect until recently, is decided: A new steel plant will be built in Donawitz, where around 2 billion schilling will be invested. This will ensure that 3 500 jobs will be safeguarded for a long time into the next century, and I believe that this is a positive message that I would like to pass on here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The people employed there have at least a purchasing power of 1 billion schilling. This is also particularly important for trade, trade and SMEs, if you want to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to conclude by saying: It will be possible to create new goods, to reach new markets, and it will also be possible to increase the operating result even more than is already the case. The last important aspect is the environmental situation. It is no secret that air quality in industrial regions is not very good. However, there is a separate programme to renovate the air in the large area of Leoben, and this new investment in the new compact steel plant will also make a significant contribution to improving the air situation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the following: In general, there is a very encouraging development. I really ask you to understand that, if one is tried so long for companies that have always had one in mind to employ as many people as possible, and if there is now this really positive development, one is also pleased about it. I would like to say this in particular to those who represent those parties whose top representatives have already identified museum qualities or applied for a massive closure. – So this is really a gratifying development, and I can give you all a warm welcome! hire.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6158	Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6180	Mr President. High house! On the questions or findings addressed to me, I may briefly: Firstly, on the orientation of economic policy. It has been correctly noted here that in the coming years, under euro conditions, in the case of low inflation and low interest rates, the current economic policy instruments in the field of incentives must certainly be considered fundamentally and the instruments we practice today will no longer meet these conditions. Therefore – I can only repeat this, I have said it again and again before – the following: I am not a friend of interest subsidies and similar things, but rather of liabilities and venture capital financing. Second point: How does the EU react? I agreed yesterday, in talks with Commissioner Bangemann, that under the Austrian Presidency, with a view to the competitiveness of the European Economic Area, a "Action Plan for Competitiveness" will be rapidly developed and implemented in the light of the many studies that are now being carried out, such as the Single Market Action Plan. But it is also time to say that Europe's economic area is very competitive compared to other economic areas. In contrast to the US economic area, the European Economic Area has an active balance of payments worldwide, which continues to grow. It will also be time to tell European citizens that not everything is bad, but that, precisely because many things are going well, one has to devote itself to the inadequacy and problems - especially the problems in the labour market - with more consequence. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Under these conditions, economic policy must be redesigned. A number of detailed questions have been addressed to me. I think it is important to ask – because the question of "fatherhoods" is asked here – the following question: What has caused this export tree in Austria? – I can repeat: It is to be welcomed that they have taken account of their competitiveness on reorganisation, innovation and reorientation, but the other framework conditions, such as low inflation and low interest rates, have been created by European economic policy, namely the Maastricht framework. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Edler.]] Next point: Free market access, not only to all neighbouring countries, but thanks to the WTO worldwide, has for the first time since the end of the war been to the benefit of politics and not to the efforts of anyone who criticizes institutions. Flexibility improvement is attributable to the social partners and innovation improvement is clearly a new, very creative generation of business employees. Now to specific problems. To ASFINAG: As a result of indiscretions, the Supervisory Board's meetings made it clear that the internal accounting system will raise problems from 2001 onwards. – I can say openly here: The Ministry has always assumed that up until then the road pricing instruments will ensure that the ASFINAG circuits and the corresponding projects will continue to be financed. You will soon be presented here in the House with an authorisation law by me in which the necessary amendment of the ASFINAG Act is ensured so that the merger of the ÖSAG, at least carried out by the Grand Member of Styria and by some other federal states, can take place; at the moment I mention in the ASG hopelessness. About Shopping Centres Regulation: She came late, but for projects of up to twenty billion that are planned, she came too early if you just look at the wave of protest of the reaction. However, the shopping centre regulation must remain toothless if not at the same time the municipalities in the care of the local centres, the shops in the question of opening hours in the local centres and also the marketing involved and the issue of parking regulation is synchronized. Another point concerns the B 301, southeast crossing of Vienna. The question raised here is as follows: The B 301 is, as it were, currently dependent on the environmental impact procedure; what will then be in silence will be seen. There has recently been a conversation with the relevant Vienna authorities about the north crossing of Vienna. This is now being taken up by Vienna again. A large-scale circle around Vienna will be assured on each of the Danube banks. How quickly will the construction in Traiswall proceed, I cannot answer, but the Krems circle, anyway Krems/St. Pölten, is closed as a mega-pass. Next point: discussion on acquisitions and self-employed persons. The number of self-employed in Austria increases, even if this is constantly criticized by the unemployed. In the new statistics for the next two years, a net increase of the self-employed is also expected to be 1 percent per year. On the subject of acquisitions: In this context, all experts agree that the large number of acquisitions in the next tax reform will, at least, require a tax neutrality of acquisitions. Two things about the lack of equity: We know from experience in the tourism sector that the 25 cases in the Austrian Hotel Lodging Hand, which had just occurred recently, have led to a decommissioning of 25 companies in the amount of almost 200 million Schilling. This debt strategy is running through the ÖHT. I would like to make them run through a second institution, because I also want to have competition in debt, and not just an institution that belongs to a few banks; it is not all companies indebted to the same banks. That is why, Mr Parnigoni, it is about introducing competition and coverage and not about restricting competition. Competition is beautiful in all areas! Another point: If you look at the new EU programmes, you can see that they also provide funds to initiate a re-indebtedment action à la ÖHT in trade. Last point: Opening hours. I am regularly referred abroad to the fact that foreign guests do not understand why, so to speak, a two-class society is taking place in Austria in the care of guests. They do not understand that there are places in which tourists are obviously allowed to be kept open, but in other places nothing happens on Sundays at all. Hunger is not localised on tourism communities – but only as a comment to the ongoing discussion. Some things for Easter enlargement. I was interviewed here in particular in the area of Burgenland. It is being tried to spread, modernise and modernize the crossings, but it is perfectly clear that our road links are insufficient in some dimensions. This concerns, for example, Bratislava. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not the Easter enlargement yet!]] – I am talking about Easter enlargement as a trade flow. That we need a better connection to Bratislava is clear. The Linz-Nord question is a problem, the integration of the growing economic area of Enns is certainly also an important medium-term problem. [[Abg. Scheibner: When do you start with it?]] – I am talking about a connection between Vienna – Bratislava. – This is currently in national competence, and I expect a communication on this point that one would like to have a highway-like construction that would make the decades of construction of local travel essential. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the West motorway?]] One last point: I have been addressed on the subject of "Puff". There is a joint project between Mrs Hostasch and me, which is not "rest" at the moment in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but is on time, since the question of the organisation of the authorities is still to be resolved with the Minister of Finance. So much, ladies and gentlemen, on the questions raised to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6264	Thank you, Minister of State. There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word is not requested by the Special Rapporteur. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting on the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapters 63 and 64 of the Federal Proposal, together with the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 64, in 1100 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. - That's the majority. The Advisory Group IX has been adopted by a majority. Advisory Group X Chapter 14: Science and research (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 65: Transport and Deutsche Telekom (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6319	We are now negotiating the consultative group X: Science and transport. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. The debate begins with a speech by Mr Dr. Brauneder. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6347	Mr President. Federal Minister – even though You're not my treasurer! High house! In recent years, we have passed laws here, which have been praised, for example, by the name "year-old law" such as the University Study Act. For the lawyer, however, the question arises: What does that mean? – The "law of the century", I would say, is not. It is not a law that applies for a hundred years; it has already been innovative. A law that only applies in this century – yes, it might be desirable because this century is about to end. After all, this law could take the glory of being mentioned in the "New Zurich Newspaper" because of its very curious language. But we also do not want to underestimate the content of this law. At least it teaches us that oral examinations are "tests to be taken orally". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Very epochal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The UOG 1993 has been in force for some time; even with the balls of a calculator you can calculate how long it has been. It has not yet been fully implemented, but you can say already now: There will be no less bureaucracy for us than they already exist at the universities. It looks like this – just a very small example – for example: An assistant wants to perform his service outside the university. He has to apply for exemption. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Where's the one?]] In fact, he wants to perform his service, but elsewhere, and he must be "exempted" from the service in order to be allowed to serve. But we don't want to take it so closely with the Termini technicians. So what does the person concerned have to do? – He has a twofold request to make. This is once a "administrative relief", it could be three times or more. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Where is the Minister?]] - Excuse me, it's important to me when you listen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This request for exemption is first sent to the Chief of Staff. The Chief Executive shall, after having been naturally examined, send this request to the Board of Directors. He goes to the Dean's office from the head of the Institute, who, of course, also has to be examined or examined. From the dean's office, he goes to the university management, from the university management to the staff officer, who, for example, carefully checks whether the application for service exemption does not exceed the duration of 30 days. From the staff member, this request then continues to the head of the staff department. The Head of the Staff Department shall act in the representation of the Rector. However, the rector would not act for himself again, but – literally! – "On behalf of the Federal Minister for Science and Transport", which I would now like to ask – would he be there – whether he is making reviews of such concerns in reflection breaks over the length or height of the Semmering base tunnel. The same application goes back, of course, to the same path. – I didn’t even count on how often he is vivided somewhere. For example, it will be re-examined whether an application for one day does not exceed 30 days. A teaching commission "new styles" was decided. This teaching assignment of new styles has, as it were, been initiated in the sense of a concentration of financial resources and probably also in the hope of saving something, because, in order to use careful words, there were teaching assignments "old style", which were not always justified by the need, perhaps rather by the need of the teacher concerned, but not so much by the need. – That was just a hypothesis, not a finding. However, I was taught about a written request that the new mandate should not be about something that should be structured, but rather about a structural reform. A structural reform was planned – and of course it could cost more money than before! What does this structural reform look like? – It looks like the habilitation – so to speak, the master test – has been devalued in many cases. It can be – and in many cases it is! – that already third-party assistants are commissioned with independent teaching. There are even habilitates who say carefully that they only want to teach this and that subject because they can't cover the whole subject from the practice yet. There is now a third semesterist there who might want to continue his education, who might want to write his dissertation – I correct myself: there is a third semester who still wants to write her dissertation; this does not only concern male assistants – and these are obliged to teach. I suspect that the university is developing into a "university of new styles", not necessarily the best, in line with non-favourable vocations, a collection of so-called senior lecturers, who are not so much taught by their own research and are bringing research into teaching, but also teaching them on the basis of Xerocopy, which they read to the students. But, of course, I am perfectly aware that there are also positive exceptions. In this context, I also see the desire for this idea, for a reduction of hierarchies at universities. However, the destruction of hierarchies means practically degradation – or let us say this: Levelling between qualified staff and less qualified staff. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] This means, for example, that the principle, which is otherwise considered as so important – as it is so beautiful in the folk mouth: "since ages" – that is, learning by doing, should not take place at the universities. This means that the instruction of an assistant is to be replaced by a participation alongside the professor, which is to be levelled under the title "Degradation of Hierarchy". Destruction of Hierarchy: For example, imagine this in a ministry: All officials shall perform the same activity: Those who have been recruited since yesterday are as busy as those who – I don't want to say now "are standing right in front of retirement", because there may be a difference – we say, "in the maturity of his years" there is his/her activity. I would like to point it out once again: Learning by doing is something that is considered to be something great and actually positive; Experience in practice can be collected. I think that this is also a model at universities that has proved itself well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The result of this possible loss of levels of our high schools... Of course, Mr. Cot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Travel costs are enough to show that we are also going to meetings and continuing training, conferences are enough to do so. A simple look at author catalogues, which I still have to speak to, shows this just as well. This threat of loss of level can be demonstrated. I do not want to do this for an ÖVP member with an example of my faculty, so that I do not renegotiate the call, I am sent here from my faculty. This has never been the case; this has only been so noticed in between. I take two other faculties of the University of Klagenfurt. Of both deans, I – and probably not only me – have reached a letter expressing concern that vocations abroad to Austria are increasingly not being accepted, including with the argument: Of course, if they follow a reputation for Austria, they would have to purchase considerable or unreasonable deterioration and uncertainty in the middle age of the profession. – The Klagenfurt colleagues – and others will certainly agree with me there – are therefore quite right to say: Especially Austria as a geographical – I am now stressing – small country depends on vocations from abroad in a special way. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite law and co-determination, we have a wealth of criticism. In some cases, we have criticism of groups that participate in the Group University. If you think I mean the students now, that's not the case. I mean the professors and assistants from whom the criticism comes. And, Mr Lukesch, there is also criticism in the House – I do not know if I am addressing you, but I almost believe it – because you are taking a change in the law of service here, and five minutes after that you are making a motion for a resolution on which a new right of service is to be created, because the previous one seems to be useless. Again and again there is criticism on the basis of the OECD report, and I would like to hold on to it once with all the clarity – obviously I do not understand something –: How can it be that we have academic unemployment on the one hand, but that we are here on the other hand and because this very different OECD report follows in the argument that we have too little academics in relation to the European average? It has already been said: Where else are the graduated nurses counted and the graduates – how is the male form of nurses? [[Calls from several sides: nurses!]] – Caregiver; thank you. If we did, we would probably be better there anyway. Finally, something to criticise. Curios is when control of groups is required to exercise co-determination. And here, I have to say, we come to areas that are uncontrollable and that remind me of the Church-popular desire. There are criticisms from the circles of studenthood, which remind me of the Church people's desire, because you actually don't know who is criticizing: Is it really those students who are in the lecture, or are they others who deal with it only via the Internet? Finally, I come to a point. I would like to speak briefly to the Danube University, which, despite its name, is not a university, but rather a collection of postgraduate studies. However, the name "Donau University" is not inaccurate for the location Krems; not because Krems is located on the Danube, but because it is actually the case that, so to speak, the limit of alcohol, which is naturally under 0.5 promille, or which is always watered down with "Donau". Knowers will know that the Danube waters at Krems are very cloudy, and this sad situation is reflected in my opinion in this Danube University as well as in terms of the Danube near Krems. The Danube University has a forerunner, the Landesakademie. This Landesakademie – I would almost say now – has been recruited by the State of Lower Austria for something completely different. But one can say that it has been assigned to certain tasks, the Danube University has replaced it. A compliment to the Federation, which, I believe, has done this, because the idea was connected with the idea that – please, to write it under quotation marks – "murks", which has been made at the Landesakademie, will be recruited and will not continue as Bacilus at the Danube University. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – But the lawyers who have built the new law are of course not physicians. The "mourk" has continued. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Posch studied in Krems!]] Input and output – money in, students and research out there – are in a blatant disproportionate relationship. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have described this, I think, and I see in it a little agreement for my argumentation: You should take the child to the playground. In this case, the child is the non-university, mixed with Danube water. I would think that we should bring the prowling to the workplace, that is, to a place where work is done in such a way that something comes out. However, with every job it is so that it also needs demand, and for the Danube University Krems there is apparently no demand to the appropriate extent. I therefore put forward a motion for a resolution from my group, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call for this motion for a resolution to be approved not only by my group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6509	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brauneder is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Decliner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6534	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In this whole field of university and research, many topics could be addressed, such as the quality in European comparison or the reform of the universities of art. We could talk about university teacher education – a very interesting and important project – or about the future of technical universities. The reform of the high school is on, studying with profession, scholarships, student housing, reform of research funding, Seibersdorf, Arsenal, Danube University. So the topics are very numerous. I would like to limit myself to three points, because my colleagues are dealing with various other areas: the success story of technical colleges, quality assurance and research policy. The success story of the specialized universities describes some newspaper articles from the past very intrusive. "Contained with summa cum laude" is about an evaluation of the technical universities. "They are among the most desirable courses in Austria" and so on. First of all, I would like to remind you that there has been a political group here which has seriously doubted this concept. It was the liberties who, like the more often, have erred again. The technical colleges have taken an excellent development. All the fears they expressed at the time – including colleague Brauneder – have not actually occurred. But it is not new in itself that their fears do not occur. We are expected to have around 10 000 places in 1999/2000 and will reach a range of approximately 17 000 to 18 000 places in a continuation until 2005. The budgetary coverage will be sufficient. Nevertheless, there are a few wishes for improvements which will be implemented gradually in the next few years. I call the integration of technical universities into the research sector. There are already initial programmes to this end. A second one: Professional universities will increasingly be able to obtain third-party funding for their activities. This will become all the better, the more graduates actually work in the companies. We need a development into health professions and social professions. I think there is a broad consensus as to how I can take different initiatives. We need a slightly better process and a consideration which is quite clear to the technical universities but also beyond, namely whether one could also promote those colleges which actually produce graduates in a speedy time. Second point: Quality assurance. This has already been done by Mr Brauneder. I really don't want to make myself here and defend the right to serve and all the things he described. I think there is a right to have many requests for simplification, and that is why this House has also decided on a motion for a resolution that this right of service is to be modernised. That's what's under attack. We will also see the results at the necessary time. In recent weeks, it has published a magazine that has almost traditionally not been well-weighted by Austria, a report which has also created some discussion. I am sure that this "level" article on the quality of technical universities, on the quality of Austrian universities or some Austrian universities will still be cited here today. I would just like to say: It is methodically almost indisputable. The recruitment of these higher education institutions was very accidental. The number of people surveyed is not sufficient, since one must, methodically, improve a lot. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are putting more emphasis on quality in the higher education sector than has been the case so far. There is the evaluation regulation, there is a wealth of activities also at the universities. I, because I recently received this, brought here an evaluation for the year 1996/97 from the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Innsbruck. It's also published. It will examine the courses in a certain way. - That's one. We have introduced a lot of inspections in the field of high-school studies – almost unnoticed – that is, an accompanying monitoring of all university studies, and it will be possible to see how you can see the report of the university board at which a congress is held at the beginning of July this year. Injury: "university evaluation measures in research and teaching in coordination with the Federal Minister for Science and Transport." I admit that the title is not very graspy, but it is about the evaluation that led our university board. So an international congress that will take place then. Finally, on research policy: It is important to note that research expenditure increased by 5.9% between 1997 and 1998. The share of gross national product has also increased slightly, from 1.5 percent to 1.56 percent – that is, the direction is right – and we have almost 4 billion schilling in the budget in 1999 and expect additional funds for it. They're not budgeted yet, but they're going to get into the budget. I also agree to place an idea very explicitly here, namely that, in connection with the euro changeover, funds from the National Bank will also be used for Austrian research funding. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: When? When?]] Please, the euro is not yet available, as you know, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: 2002!]] This money does not run away from us, I would also like to say. But Mr Edlinger, Mr Novotny, Mr Stumbled, Mr Lukesch, and, if I remember correctly, Mr Van der Bellen have also spoken in this direction. I certainly did not list everyone, but there seems to be a very broad consensus among those responsible for money and research. In the public sector, we also have an increase of around 90 per cent in research expenditure between 1989 and 1998, which is 61 per cent in the private sector. There's certainly a lot more to catch up with. To sum up, I would like to begin by thanking the ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Budgets, who have supported us in the budgetary deliberations with a lot of information and who have drawn up this budget to a total of around 28.3 billion schilling. That's about 2.3 percent more than in 1998. This is not an adequate budget, but a budget that is sufficient to guarantee and ensure a positive development of teaching and research at our universities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6587	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6609	Good day, Minister of State! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to highlight the area of the Federal Government's technology offensive, a very interesting topic on which many hopes have been aroused. In 1993, the government commissioned the design of a technology policy approach. This draft was completed in October 1994 and then returned to a revision. Then came the year 1996. The expert draft for a technology policy concept of the Federal Government has come into Parliament. It is an analytical paper which deals only with target priorities and strategies, on the basis of which the policy strategies and concrete action lines are to be drawn up by the end of the year, i.e. at the end of 1996. - That's the ministerial protocol. Since then, Minister of State, we have been comforted from meeting to meeting. We do not know how these technology billions are effectively divided and what concept there is. We can only now tell the press that there is obviously an agreed opinion, according to which the original draft by Hochleitner and Schmidt remains the KIR and the Council for Research and Technology. Truly a low yield for an effort by experts who have gone over several years! I am sorry that a good idea that the government has correctly recognized has been designed as sad as it is now. First, 70 million schillings were cut out of the billion for the social pot. After this, something very interesting was done: Then, in principle, the division was disputed, so that you, Mr. Federal Minister, on 17 November. In December 1997, most of the technology billions, i.e. the billion for 1997, can only be spent in 1998. You're talking about offensive, but I think you've actually taken the backward course. Offensive is definitely not one, and I think that's a very bad thing. We need that. We need these billions of technology because we hope that future-oriented jobs will result, that we will have the opportunity to give impetus to the economy, to create more international networking and therefore to give greater security in the labour market. And what happened? – The return journey has been completed. Very bad, Minister of State! The Liberal Forum has proposed cutting down the reserves of currencies in order to boost these billions that we need. We need not only 1 billion schillings for three years, but we would need an increase of 3 billion schillings per year so that we can reach a level where research in the international context is really competitive so that we can really keep up with the international trends. 1 billion schilling per year is not enough. I'm coming back to the National Bank Reserves. Mr Edlinger confirmed: Yes, we have a level of reserves that we do not really need to do so from 2002 onwards. Only: As of 1999, the speculation within Europe will actually end, Minister of State. In other words, as early as January 1999, we could start to reduce these reserves, which means that we could already make a massive increase in the next year's budget of these research institutions. – But no, you refuse to wait until 2002. This is not even a very intelligent process in terms of financial policy. Furthermore, this "billion", which has only accounted for 930 million – and you, Federal Minister, have said this in a question to Mr Schöggl – has obviously been allocated 465 million, and to date an amount of 205 million schilling has been spent. Federal Minister! That is to say, we have expected to increase the technology billions by at least 260 million schilling for the 1998 budget. I would be very pleased if that were really the case, but I dare to doubt this. This billion was cut down last year in such a way that I cannot see how to actually make an increase for this year. Then it goes on: There are major problems in the field of the university. The veterinary medicine alone devours 500 million schillings per year on rent. I do not think it is a very sensible process to spend so much money on rents. I would like you to think again about how the structure of the building administration has been designed. Obviously, this is not going towards more efficient and slimmer administration. If 500 million schilling are needed for VetMed, that's way too much. I very much regret that we do not manage to talk about service law in a positive and collective way. Let us talk about the fact that Pragmatization is perhaps not an asset when it comes to real achievement! Rather, Pragmatization is either necessary – but only to a small extent – or often a brake in relation to a career development, because one simply feels too safe and no longer feels the pressure of performance that one should actually have in order to show real activity in this area. You can see it at the excretions. Although these occur only in a small number, of course, there are indeed problematic persons in the professorship. We should be able to motivate these in the near future. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I submitted an application to this effect!]] In this you will agree with me, Mr President. This is a project that we should work together in the near future. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes, you are right, Mrs. Colleague!]] Another problem arising from government activity is the following: With regard to the contract of work, it has been found that 40 to 60 million schilling are necessary in the field of higher education alone as a result of this new regulation, which is an abuse. Now I ask you: Do you really want to burden the universities with additional personnel costs because this would be "crazy" for the budget? - I don't think so. The contract rules do not apply to those concerned, nor does they reorganise the budget situation of Austria. But universities and colleges are one of the sufferers of this scheme. I would ask you to become active in this respect too. So far, we've missed it. Federal Minister! They have brought into public discussion the project, which was duly referred to as the word "spitzel", i.e. the project of control of university teachers. In principle, I do not think it is bad if there is control of the performance of all parties involved. In principle, I do not think it is bad to say that students have to perform and that they are reviewed by examinations. But I don't think it's the right way to send any hidden agents somewhere. For if you want to make an improvement, this is only in conjunction with the affected group; against them you will not be able to achieve anything. That is why I am sorry that this idea in itself has gotten a bad name, and that is why I think we should become active. Increased efficiency on the part of both students and researchers would be good for all of us. Another budget trick, which has very perplexed me, is that the FWF has been budgeted with about 600 million schilling this year. – In fact, But you need more than 150 million. Last year this fund was initially budgeted equally, then the budget was increased afterwards, and so you finally came to your approximately 750 million schilling. This year exactly the same "Gymnastik" is being done, Mr. Federal Minister! They have also admitted that this is how it is done. Why aren't you straight enough to say: The FWF needs 750 million schilling, so we budget this amount from the outset! – In my opinion, that would be the right process, but not the one to operate with tricks again and again. Finally, I would like to refer to the integration of female researchers into university institutions. I have to say that in this respect not much has been done in the last year. It has not done anything in the last 20 years; there is a great manko on this point. We should be offensively motivating women to stay at universities and to go the thorny way of teaching and research so that we really bring them where we want them, not at about 4 percent, but at at least 30 percent of the professorship. This is what we need so that we can finally get this issue off the table. I think it is extremely unfortunate that it is not possible for some researchers to be preferred that they are offensively preferred simply not to leave the quality of research in male hands. A woman is in many ways different from a man, and both components belong to a university. 4 percent are not enough now. I very much wish you did not just say: We have set up ten scholarships. – We need a lot more than ten scholarships: We need an open hand and an open ear for these concerns. But we have missed this very much from you, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6664	Mr Dr. Lukesch has also been mentioned in the debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6693	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would first like to point out, as Mr Niederweiser has said, that in 1999, budget capital science is only experiencing an average increase of 1.67 per cent. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The university is insured, but a clear focus has not been set on budget terms this time. Nevertheless, there are also a number of priorities in this budget. Mr Niederweiser pointed out the increase in the global research rate. Mrs Gredler! Perhaps you respect a copyright for political ideas in some way. I believe that it was my group – and, with all the modesty, I myself – who first called for the establishment of a National Bank II anniversary fund to strengthen this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This fund will come, that is not a question. We agree, including colleagues from Niederwieser, and we support the Federal Minister in this matter. However, I have certain concerns, Mrs Colleague, that if we do not resolve the most important point in the research concept mentioned by you, we shall see a change in it: This is not the new organization or the new management, but, of course, the increased need for money in this area. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I said that!]] Yes, and that will come! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Yes, but only 2002!]] I understand your impatience. Believe me, I'm just as impatient! But a certain overall responsibility, such as the Austrian currency and its position on international markets, I must also be regarded as a member of a government-bearing party in this area. I would like to point out that we have the third research billion from additional resources in view. Federal Minister! The EIA would have been prepared to put it in the 1999 budget estimates as set out in the corresponding chapters. Now she is again under the chapter "Finanzministerium". However, I am sure that we will decide on the appropriate budget amendments in good time. At least the institutions can expect these funds to be increased. Federal Minister! I would also like to mention that I think it is a positive sign that, for example, the funds for international research cooperation have been significantly increased and that money has been available for the Academy of Sciences, not only for its generally important activity, but also for the popularisation of Austrian research results in the framework of a permanent exhibition and in the framework of federal exhibitions. We must manage to enforce the acceptance of science and research in our society. Then we will also have the necessary means to do so. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Of course, the reforms have already been decided. I think that the ÖVP has always been the driving force for university reforms – regardless of whether the UOG 1993 or the UniStG 1997, the technical school law and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's it!]] Mr President, Brauneder has asked us what is the characteristic of a "century law" at UniStG. - Excuse me, Mr President: I do not know any other act in this century – at normal times – that would have replaced with a stroke of 187 individual laws and regulations – as in this case the autonomy of universities has done. This is a very reasonable and unique process in this century! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Speaking of "Neudeutsche", it was a paradigm change. However, the law was not sufficiently specified to you, you even called it a constitutional question, even as possibly democratic political concern, because we no longer decide in detail here in the House study laws and study regulations. But that is not our view and our understanding of autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a word on the reform of the art and music universities. It is a particular concern for the ÖVP – and for me – to reach the equality of these two social components by including our arts and music in the university area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out – so that there is no misunderstanding – that it was the ÖVP that insisted on art as art – and not under the cover of science – being equally emancipated. On this road we are very good on the road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also want to give the art and music universities – i.e. the new art universities and music universities – the same autonomy rights as the universities they have, and not say to the artists: These are supposed to have a little less autonomy than the universities. – On average, they may be more creative than the universities and will do well with the new freedoms. Of course, the first goal is to ensure the quality of our art and music universities at every step of the reform. We owe this to the Austrian art and music country. Federal Minister! The course towards reformed universities with a human image and a social conception that corresponds to modern democratic citizenship are set. But the train should drive faster!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6793	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6815	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lukesch, you said: We have no special growth, but only a moderate increase. – On the other hand, I fear: Not only do we have no increase, but unfortunately we have a massive downturn in the financing of universities and universities. Because the actual criterion cannot be the absolute amount spent in this area, but when it comes to teaching young people as good and as high a training as possible, then what counts is expenditure per person. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: There we are! That is the second point in the OECD.]] However, total expenditure per person has fallen enormously, by about 50 percent since the 1970s. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: There is only Sweden a little ahead!]] On the other hand, the decline, although unfortunate, was lower in the school sector. There the drop per student – under quotation marks – is "only" about 20 percent. Furthermore, if we agree that modern training is likely to require particularly intensive care and that it is not primarily, not primarily, about buildings and technical equipment – even if these are nevertheless more important – but rather the teaching and the intensity of the possibilities of personal care, i.e. also with the possibilities to work in small groups and to do exercises or tutorials in a manageable size – then it should be noted that you unfortunately do not have this in the so-called mass studies. I regret this in view of the successes that higher education policy has absolutely had, especially after the intentions of social democracy. The opening up of universities has led to the fact that there has been far disproportionate representation of young people from socially weak shifts. Of course, this does not go from day to day, but the trend was clearly recognizable. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But yes!]] That is to say, the permanent uncertainties that now arise in the direction of study fees or credit financing are detrimental to the intention of opening up universities, investment education and, above all, to women's equality – the equality of female students at universities. On the one hand. On the other hand: It is still an intense debate on autonomy and control in progress. I have the impression that, although we have taken half a step towards autonomy and continue to do so with the implementation of the UOG 1993, this is only half a step. However, the question of how much control is to be carried out by the Ministry, i.e. by the central body, and in which areas it is carried out, and how the autonomy is to be exercised, remains open. I think that the path now chosen, the demarcation now chosen, is not ideal. Federal Minister! On the one hand, I hear massive complaints from more than just one university in Austria that letters, requests or applications addressed to the department are sometimes not answered at all and partly after long periods of time. If this leads, for example, to the fact that posts cannot be filled with highly qualified people who have multiple offers, I believe that they are generally at the disadvantage of science in Austria. This has happened at the University of Linz – in the area of the management of the library – and in other areas as well. I also hear that autonomy – which certainly also means full responsibility and full accountability – is understood in such a way that, for example, in the case of appeal proceedings, only grade I can be offered. There is no question that it is obvious why one offers what, and that one cannot at once earn the X-fold of income in a previous place, and that the university bodies are fully accountable for it. But if the negotiators are given an economically unrealistic measure, so that they have to intervene again in detours, I say: Let's just leave it in the ministry! Either – or: either autonomy or decision in the resort! Both have advantages and disadvantages, but if you have already opted for autonomy, you should continue it. Detto in the field of flexibility in terms of budgetary approaches. It would in itself be in the law that at least 10 percent a year can be shifted between approaches. However, de facto this does not take place or, at any rate, the regulation likely to be adopted for this purpose has not been adopted. Federal Minister! Why not? – Without a doubt: full accountability, full responsibility, but then it must also be called: autonomous decisions, with a participation of all those involved in the University: the students, the medium-sized building and the professors. I'd ask you for a clear statement about how you keep it with autonomy. For me, it is clear that some things must always be accountable, for example the question of women's equality. That is where I, especially with you personally, already find a lot of effort, and I also assume that this is a real concern for you. Of course, the autonomy there is also a danger. Because more and more often – you know – it comes to "one-person three-proposals", to three-proposals that focus in a person, and that is usually a man. If you continue at this speed, it will take more than a hundred years for women to draw equal. But I don't think we should wait so long, and we can't! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, it is absolutely necessary for universities to be reminded of their commitment. I think it is important that political activities are put into practice in scientific and technical subjects and that the university's autonomous scope cannot work against women. I consider the female life perspective, the female socialization – especially in the sense of a comprehensive technology assessment – to be very important. A second area – colleague Gredler mentioned it in the example of veterinary medicine; I would like to address this somewhat more generally – namely the cooperation of universities and other public services with the Federal Property Society. I would ask that you, perhaps in a conversation or in writing, try to evaluate how this federal real estate company proves itself. I hear – certainly that is not representative – serious complaints. On the one hand, it is a pyrrhus victory, if the federal real estate company can say: We are taking so much more, because we are paying from the departments of justice, universities and so on ever higher revenue, but on the other hand, it pays the state out of the other pocket. – I can’t see the sense of it. Secondly, I hear massive complaints that those who are supposed to use the building and have to have a very small influence on construction and construction control. If I then hear from the University of Innsbruck that a measure of triple glazing of windows, which is certainly useful in the Tyrolean climate, is such that it is too long amortisation periods and that one expects shorter amortization periods at the BIG, I already ask: Does this society have any ecological or social mission? Because then I no longer see why this must be a federal society at all. Then we give this to some or perhaps several property management companies, which may then also bring down prices in competition. De facto continues to act as a state monopolist, but always claims that it is a private society, which, in the end, is covered and covered by the state, and which has apparently not included a public responsibility, such as respect for social or environmental objectives, in its order catalogue. A third point, Mr Federal Minister, which is very dear to me: It is almost a stand-by point for all speakers on the point of science and research, which is always and notorically to complain of low-level activities in the field of technology promotion. I, of course, also agree with this Lamento, but I would like to change it in that I believe it would be time for the Ministry of Science to give a comprehensive research assignment once, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to determine which industries bring momentum into the workplace situation, which, if you want to do so, there is "coach" in the creation of jobs: whether these are the high-tech companies themselves, which I want to promote, consider important and behind which I fully stand and which I wish more to clarify. However, I believe that we have lost sight of the others in all the credos for high-tech companies and that we should also ask in international competition, especially as regards the image, marketing of entire countries or states, what it is, what makes the location Austria very attractive. – One hears the answer repeatedly: the quality of life – perhaps also the Mozart balls – and the environmental sectors, which, as we know, have a very high job intensity and a very innovative potential. [[Abg. May. Posch: Mozart balls!]] But this also leads to the art and culture sector – in so far there are certain leanings on Mozart. In any case, its work relevance has not been investigated in the last ten years – as far as I know it, I have researched it. There is a study by Professor Scheuch of the University of Economics – this is, as I said, ten years old – about the copyright industries. Since then, we do not know what we are losing in Austria in the field of music industry, in the field of film industry, but the loss seems to be massive. These then again have a very high investment intensity – we know this from America, but we know that from Sweden and other countries – including in microelectronics. For example, if Sony has gone to Salzburg, then also because they certainly sell the image Austria with the product they produce there. I don't think we should buy that the copyright industry's music "made in Austria", films "made in Austria" dry out so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Is there not!]] The total Austrian film funding has a budget of 120 million Schilling per year. So much costs a middle-class film; there I don't even talk about "Titanic" and similar, we don't want to do that with our film promotion. But these are jobs, and that's an engine, that's a locomotive. I urge you to take a start so that at least once again we can get a scientific evaluation of the current situation in the industry. In other words, we must also raise the question of technology promotion at the same time, under which conditions, under which technological investment is likely. There is technology in the narrower sense – technology is sold as such, as a product – and there are those who will be involved by another industry – that will be very strong in the art and cultural industry in Austria. One of the last things related to this: Both in the field of science and research as well as in the field of art and culture, there are more and more people – especially young people – who no longer have this continuous course of work in a fairly safe job, as our parents or grandparents might have had. There are more and more young people who, as it is said, work "project-oriented" and then have gaps between the projects, phases in which a project is currently running out and perhaps not yet a new one is in sight. Now I believe that on the one hand there is also a personal need, especially for young people, to work in this way, to be flexible, to get to know a lot of new things, only – and that is the horse's footing – did not keep our social security systems going. Social security systems will be – on the contrary! – made more and more dependent on an employment relationship that is as continuous as possible, as far as possible without bending. This is true and has always met women because of the often-accepted family obligations. But this is happening now a whole generation of young people, especially in these particularly dynamic sectors of science, research, art and culture. The question is difficult to solve. An approach which our social spokesperson Karl Oellinger, for example, repeatedly proposes, is the introduction of minimum socks into systems and the expansion of periods that can be bridged, with payments of course in some form being offset. But this question has to be asked. I believe that this problem has reached a dimension that it would be time to hold a survey of the Federal Government and Parliament so that we can begin to secure the social system for all on the one hand, but also this generation of young people on the other. In other words, it will not be possible to ensure their solidarity, which we need, which the elderly also need. When a generation of young people are told by society: You can work as much as you want, you can make your money, but if you're serious, your security is no longer fully guaranteed!, then you have to ask: What an incentive a young person should have to be willing to finance in this social system, although we know that the share of old people will rise! We must therefore also ensure social solidarity of young people with new systems, and I urge you to support such a survey together with us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6926	Mr Rada is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6948	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I agree with Mr Niederweiser, who says that in the budget chapter, science, we could develop a lot of topics. I would therefore like to devote myself to university teacher education. It is not long ago that in this House we have discussed very intensively the demands and demands of society which are placed at the institution school. If these high demands are to be met by these institutions, it will need training teachers in these institutions. In fact, teachers are trained on several tracks. We have a very short training track for pre-school education, although there are a lot of tasks in this area. We have a somewhat longer level of compulsory education, and there is university education in the fields of higher and higher education. It now occurs that one teacher cannot be used by one training group in another. We have on the one hand unemployed teachers, teachers standing on waiting lists, and on the other hand teachers who have to keep a lot of overtime in order to be able to fulfill the mission of society. I therefore imagine that it should be possible, under a common pedagogical faculty, to achieve teacher training in a field of pedagogical occupations. In the future, it will be not only about kindergarten, folk school, primary school and AHS, but also about educational care. This educational care will also have to be in the field of leisure, in the field of old age care. However, this should not necessarily mean that each of these trainings would also take the time of eight and more semesters. Mr. Minister! I would ask you to enter into negotiations in these areas, because negotiations are already under way in the direction of re-decision of this Academy Act and therefore the situation would be more and more cemented. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I am delighted to quote an APA report of 12.40 a.m., which reads as follows: "On Friday, the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office closed proceedings for alleged illegal party financing against SPÖ club chief Peter Kostelka and the former managing director and now Vienna Finance Councillor Brigitte Ederer." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "There has been no offence, neither in criminal law nor in financial law,...."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e6999	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7020	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The jubilation that Mr Rada voted in favour of the public prosecutor's decision on recruitment should be rather premature, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That wasn't a jubilant song! That was an APA message!]] Because, of course, a prosecutor, taking into account the provisions of our federal constitution on immunity, is not in a position to continue. [[Abg. Crowdier: Ah so?! You need to know!]] That is to say, the outcome of the preliminary examination can only be in the version of a so-called recruitment decision, since it sees no further reasons for prosecution, but not in the sense of a pre-emptive ruling that no elements of the matter could be established in the direction of an infidelity, but simply bearing in mind that the actions of the Clubobman Kostelka are subject to the immunity rules of the Austrian federal constitution and are therefore deprived of criminal proceedings for this reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, if you have to make a statement from a public prosecutor or an investigative judge about applications for termination of the procedure a successful meeting, then there is only the possibility, after the coalition has unanimously refused the abolition of non-professional immunity, that Mr Kostelka at least does not temporarily waive the exercise of his mandate, because then there is the possibility of reviewing his actions, of club financing on all sides. [[Abg. Of course it is!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who is sitting in the glass house,...!]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! You should consider that. This is what you are so upset about, because the freedom of expression has consequences. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: The Eders are not immune!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have been resigned!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There are two Members who are not even suspected. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not even suspected of a criminal act. However, you agree to a provisional suspension of your mandates in order not to bring about a complete re-washing of criminal charges. That is the quality of the difference, ladies and gentlemen! – Your calls may be loud, but that is why they are not more correct, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Niederweiser! If I look at you, I will of course associate you with your function as an educational speaker and as a scientific speaker. [[Abg. Sadness: Every day’s a million more...!]] I can therefore also devote myself specifically to the matter here, but it was a need to put my previous speaker's speech into the right light. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you'll calm down again. I agree, of course, that it is unpleasant to you because there are two qualities of conflict resolution here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Your egg dance is embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one will argue that there is a crisis situation at the Austrian universities. Federal Minister! You yourself - if there was any evidence at all - have provided proof that the Austrian universities are in a crisis by repressing for an animated general public, for me and also for the assistants, for university professors, for the students. Proposals have been made to carry out the evaluation of Austrian universities through the establishment of so-called university peaks. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That's snow from yesterday! Old snow! Have we heard a thousand times?]] The Austrian universities have long study periods, high drop-out quotas and poor infrastructure. Dear Mr. former spokesperson of the SPÖ! "Snow yesterday!" The up-to-dateness – I am right for you – is now no longer given to this extent, but the actuality is still and still exists, as long as the Minister of State does not distance himself from the use of a chief being. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! But we are not so different in our analysis of the Austrian higher education system. However, we also need to look for solutions other than to have such thoughts of defiance on the part of the professors. And, of course, the question arises whether one should not question or at least discuss the constitutionally justified monopoly of the federal government for the university system. What do I mean by that? . I mean that in addition to the entire field of public universities, private universities should also be set up. Only when there is a interaction in this regard with a healthy competition will there be an increase in quality in the public education sector, in the public university sector. That's no question at all: If two educational institutions are in competition, then the supply of public universities, including the use of higher education staff, will automatically increase their efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of being careful, but still of considering a mere two-column model in the Austrian university system. Two-column model means teaching and research. We must move à la longue, if we want to remain competitive in the European and worldwide standards, to a three-column model, namely a third pillar of the service. Only if this third pillar of the service can be reconciled with the first two pillars of teaching and research will the Austrian university system produce students who in practice have grown to the high standard of performance internationally. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, my group has also decided to submit an independent motion for a resolution which, among other things, has a change in the legal basis towards the establishment of a third pillar and the admission of private universities. However, it is also important that public universities should finally be released into autonomy, because it is still there and there only a sham autonomy. It should also be questioned whether there should not be foundations for universities, whether the foundations' instruments are suitable for producing higher efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think we should be in contempt here, because that meant not wanting to deal with the crisis of the Austrian universities. I don't want to put that on your mind. So if you are serious about further development of Austrian higher education, you will also agree to the admission of private universities in the committees of the establishment of a third pillar. Let us all make this third pillar possible for the benefit of our youth, for the benefit of the students and for the benefit of the Austrian economy too!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7224	Mrs Dr. Brinek. A voluntary time limit of 4 minutes is indicated. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7246	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In short to the remarks made by my previous speaker: I am very surprised at how little you know how it is at the universities at present or how universities are constituted. First: Research and teaching is one thing. We are therefore also talking about research-led teaching. Research nourishes the quality of teaching. Secondly, Service, which is referred to by you as a third pillar, is possible through partial justice at any time and is also practiced. I think old Chancellor Kreisky would have said at this point: Learn history, that is, history of time, Mr. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A brief comment still in the direction of Mr Rada. He has addressed university teacher education. A differentiated school system in a differentiated society is based on differentiated teacher education. The problem of unemployment, which he referred to, is not so easy to solve, but needs to be solved in other ways, but in no way about the detour of a pedagogical "total school faculty" or how ever this constellation should look. As far as I can estimate it and say it to my group, there will certainly not be this variant with the People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: That's a shame!]] – I would like to return to why this is the better way. The colleges have already been addressed. They are at the center of attention. The "standard" this week says they're in the rain. - That's not how I see it. The 42 courses, the 18 recipients give a vivid picture of a success story. But some things have to be changed. It is the serious effort to create a new sector, to make a new offer, to separate from those that operate according to the motto "scanning"; that is, postsecondary courses, courses that are already available and successful models, simply make the exchange of names and door signs into professional universities. In reality, this is not the way forward. In view of the scarcity of the resources and the efficiency of the operation, the development of the high-school development plan itself is still to be changed and taken into account. The report of the University of Applied Sciences also gives an opinion on this and urges this further development. To a certain extent, we have already given an answer. I am thinking only of the recent reform of the High School Law for Engineers. However, the high-school report also recommends measures to improve the coherence of the education system. That is why I am very glad that there are another 50 million schillings for the vocational colleges in the transport sector and further efforts, as far as I can see, in order to obtain additional private funds. This means: more imagination in the area of structuring, more imagination in the area of organization, to also rethink this structure – 90 percent public funds, 10 percent private supporters. I would like to address another line of argument, which means: colleges and universities. Non-negotiating society does not continue; I'm not afraid of it either. I believe that universities have a lot of opportunities to position themselves through the new university study law, for example on the design of the study entry phase, on the development of study plans in which they themselves say who they are or who they are not. Federal Minister! I think the universities need your help. They need them at the monetary level, but they also need symbolic support so that the strength can come from them again to this renewal, so that there is not the self experience that we know from so many autonomy experiences in the school sector, namely that we are declared a "building site" from the outside and that the necessary help for new construction, remodeling is not given. We should give this assistance together. The ÖVP is committed to doing this together with you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7293	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7315	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not turn to the field of science, but to the transport sector, and first of all to the Krüger, because there seems to be a lot of morality and morality in this debate. Once again, from this speaker's point of view, his remarks have to be brought into the right light here, because what he is showing in this house is very striking. I would like to ask Mr Krüger, if he had not looked for the space, whether he was today as a liberal MP and as a lawyer who he is, still represents the opinion that concentration camps in the Third Reich were merely "straflager". And if he is still of this opinion today, as he expressed them here on this pult a long time ago and did not withdraw, I ask him what crimes have been committed by those 1.5 million children who have died there, according to his opinion as a liberal MP and lawyer. Finally, I would be interested, after the new morale at the FPÖ has now begun, whether such embarrassing equality between concentration camps and "storages", as Mr Krüger had the honour to introduce in this House and has not been revoked to this day, according to the new Treaty which exists within the Liberal Group, are also ponale. I would be very interested to see whether not only the non-compliance with electoral promises, but also the embarrassing equality as he has made them, is something that one no longer wants after the new code of morality of FPÖ. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about the budget – and I want to come back to it now – we cannot ignore the fact that we are facing difficult times especially in the area of infrastructure measures – I want to take out the areas of rail and telecom. I would be very interested in the area of rail from the Federal Minister's point of view, how he assesses the financial employability and the budgetary viability of those funding horizons which are currently in place under the Rail Infrastructure Act and the measures planned there. I would be interested in what funding is really to be discussed here, and I would be particularly interested in how the current construction, after the ÖBB has been decommissioned from the budget and several companies in the area, will look like the feasibility of these investments. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that no basic reforms in the area of railways have so far been possible. Although there are prevention strategies that concern costs, such as early retirements, they are already known from the field of state officials. It is true that all possible local authorities are required to make subsidies. That too is something you still know from the time of the national lights. More recently, the EU is also promoting. Nevertheless, the financing problems and the budgetary operating problems have already been foreseen, and have been called upon by the Director-General of the ÖBB to do so. It has been ÖBB General Director Draxler, who has warned today that already in 2009 at least 20 billion schillings will be charged per year in what will be financed, and the ÖBB is currently paying 3.5 billion shillings per year. This is an inconspicuous hole, and, Mr Federal Minister, it is likely that the Federal Budget will have to be used for the cover. We all know that the measures taken in the area of rail have been such in order to achieve the Maastricht criteria. But it is also necessary for the costs to be borne by... – honourable Member! [[Abg. Edler: There is another way: to make the cost truth!]] One will have to talk about what infrastructure projects will be made. This is a problem that was created decades ago, because the railway infrastructure has been neglected for decades, and because these measures have not been implemented, it is now coming to an end. It's just about the question: How do you want to cover this budget? What do the funding horizons look like, and do those sums that can be read in the media today? That's all we want to know. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The telecom sector will be very important for the Austrian economy and ultimately also for the European economy, not only because there is considerable revenue from the concession fees in relation to the budget, but also because there are major economic impacts from the investment in the construction of networks on the one hand, but also through the widespread use of these telecommunications services. It is all the more important, ladies and gentlemen, that it is precisely this area that is regulated by law as well as by means of correct procedures with regard to the individual applicants. However, both are in danger in the current situation in Austria. Both a reliable legal design and a correct, moderate handling of this area are not available at present. First of all, to the legal area. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== We are now trying to re-establish this telecommunications law and it is reason that this area has taken on a very dynamic development, which is not wrong, and that that group of companies, namely the former post, which has an undisputed good relationship with the ministry, is said to have already had capacity problems. We have set up a meeting of the Transport Committee before the plenary today to discuss this matter. In this one hour, however, it was not possible to explain all of this to questions related to an amendment to the § 125 Telecommunications Act. I would like to stress this for this reason because Mr Haigermoser said today that there would have been a "chaos" on the part of Parliament's management, which is not right. It is true, rather, that in this debate this morning, from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. until the beginning of the plenary session, it was simply not possible to clarify all the questions raised and the legitimate doubts about the presentations that have been made so far, namely the fact that mobile commerce is currently experiencing capacity bottlenecks. There are evidences that suggest that this is not true. One can rightly question this, because here quite obviously frequency horning is operated. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That is not what we have to judge, Mr. Cot. You do not have to judge this as a parliamentarian! You are responsible for laws...!]] Yes, it is, Mr Luke! We have a law, and this law already foresees – I will carry it out even more precisely – that, if capacity bottlenecks occur, frequencies can also be assigned from another area, namely in concrete terms to the 1 800 area. This is already provided for by the existing law, for which we would not need any change. That's why I'm wondering: What do you want to change if there is already a law inside that, when capacity bottlenecks occur, an assignment from another frequency range can take place, namely to the mobile and also to max.mobil.Unknown term type: "%s".? If, then it can only be about these two companies. But primarily – and that is why this discussion comes about – the mobile sector, and I would like to stress once again that the mobile home is exactly that company that still has a special close relationship with the ministry. It was not clear today in this short period of time, and we will therefore, as the Committee has unfortunately been interrupted, continue this committee after the plenary session. It would also have been possible for the Committee to be held on 4 May. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. You'll admit that to me. The decision of the Coalition Parties is clear in this regard. I would just like to point out that it would not be necessary to carry out this provision with this pressure, because, ultimately, a decision can only be taken in June and not before. Whenever the coalition parties show such a hurry, skepticism is recommended. I would therefore like to address this proposed amendment, Mr Lucisch, even more precisely. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Discussiond for weeks!]] You have discussed it for weeks among the political groups, and it is known, Mr Luke, that in order to secure the willingness of the fire brigades in the 0.5-promille area, after your division, there have been two successive applications. The one in which the ÖVP was responsible has dealt with the promille issue, the other has been concerned with this change, and Mr Parnigoni has been the leader. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a very subjective presentation!]] In Austrian political reality, one does not have to dig particularly deeply or ask for much to recognize the direct link between these two applications – point 761 and point 762. That was a political deal, a political deal, as we reject it from the Liberals. It cannot be expected that these individual questions will be dealt with together. You have to decide on each other. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's wrong! We want to solve both areas optimally!]] Mr Lukesch! I can tell you: In order to ensure the willingness of the volunteer fire brigades to use the driving licence law, you do not have to sell yourself to your coalition partner in another matter, you will also find people who would like to understand it and talk to them about an objective solution. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: We don't do that either!]] But you won't be able to talk to us about a political deal. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: There's no deal! You've got a compulsion!]] No, no, no, I'm calling you an interpretation that you can't unravel. [[Abg. Dr. Lucisch: Yes!]] In § 125 para. 3 Telecommunications Act – and I am sorry if it becomes a little technical now – is expressly stated that if a company now in existence has capacity problems to assign frequencies to this company – that is a legal claim, there is no problem at all – and that is, as I read these paragraphs, without further payment. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The way you read this!]] But now you want an additional § 125 para. 3a. And what does this verse say? 3a? – This paragraph. 3a means that the remaining 1 800 megahertz range is to be used at frequencies – about which it is here. In any case, a fourth provider should be created, who has been on the plan for a long time and has not yet been decided upon, and it should also be possible to assign frequencies to other existing holders of a concession. But the fourth sentence in this amendment, Mr Federal Minister, is interesting. The argument is that the mobile community has capacity constraints, and it is not supposed to be sufficient to allocate them to the existing provision which, therefore, this new provision is needed. The fourth sentence in the new provision is: These – namely the frequencies that are assigned – may only be granted by owners of an existing concession for the provision – and so on – from that in Abs. 3 of the first sentence referred to above are used for the provision of the service. – That means if you use this paragraph. Introduce 3a, then become They can observe and carry out a financial exploitation of the remaining frequencies in the 1 800 megahertz area, without any capacity bottlenecks, because capacity bottlenecks are in the Abs. 3a no longer speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Threesome is there!]] But the use, Mr. Lukesch, of these new frequencies can only be used if it is also used in accordance with § 125 para. 3 would be possible. – But that means: If you decide on this novel and get the mobile com, which is now supposed to have such capacity bottlenecks, due to this determination, it may only use them at the same time, at which time it will also be used in accordance with § 125 para. 3 is expected to be used. Stop telling the people that in some way this is about a correct settlement! This is a frequency hearing between the former post office and the Federal Ministry, which is a measure that you want to secure revenue for the budget, but it is not a measure in favour of competition, and it is not a measure that will bring Austria as an economic location in any way a better reputation than the one it now has. That is why, from a liberal point of view, this is also to be rejected. I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen, with this emphasis, because, thanks to EU directives, those concessions that have already been adopted have now been published; they have already been given sufficient time by the competent authority, but now the concessions can be seen. It was not true in Austria that a good information policy would have been pursued by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs or by other bodies for the purpose of transparency and competition, but it was only the EU that had to do with directives in order to make this possible. It can now be seen that errors have occurred even in the modest execution of the concrete concessions, not any mistakes, not typotypes, as one could read in the press, but errors that will have blatant effects and also blatant consequences. In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, the seaweed is also going wrong. Because the problem is that in the area of mobile communications, where there are frequencies for the D network, there are frequencies in the concession on which the mobile comm does not send. And now, in the saying of the decision, 450 megahertz was spoken twice – one has also spoken in the explanatory statement of 450 megahertz, one has apparently tipped himself in the saying and in the explanatory statement as to how to read it – but there is a further supplement attached to the saying, in which the frequency on which the mobile com sends is precisely mentioned, namely the 900 megahertz frequency. But if you look at the permissions of the mobile home to build systems, you will see that in § 3 of this supplement only NMT-450 systems are mentioned, and you cannot send with NMT-450 systems on the 900-megahertz frequency. There is therefore the problem that, apparently due to the special close relationship that has existed in this area, the Ministry has issued a notification that is faulty - massively wrong. The mobile home can only do little to have a constellation approved that does not go together. After all, it could have challenged public law at the courts – it could not have appealed against it – and it should have done so. There is, therefore, a situation where the dominant companies, so far and even now close to the state, do not even have a discretionary authorisation for the operation of transmission systems, which you are very likely to divide up all the others. This is the administrative Sodom and Gomorrah that reigns in this area. You are not even willing to address these issues, about today in the Committee. And that is something to reject. It is particularly important to reject this, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because of you we have to sit down today!]] Mr Parnigoni, I have already done this before. We shouldn't have to sit down today! I already know that you want to move the Liberals to the Black Peter now because we do not give peace in this matter, but it is true that we also have this question on 4 May. Not at night-slumbering time on June, but at normal time could have regulated. But you want to go through matter because you worry that if these things come to light too quickly, there will be a discussion and you will no longer be able to carry out the changes you are planning now and absolutely have to decide at night. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It seems not only that, Mr Parnigoni, there are minor shortcomings in legal acts which cannot be solved so easily at all, and that you are planning to allow a frequency hearing of the mobile com together with the Federal Ministry of Transport, but you also want to secure additional revenue for a budget you have long promised that you will clean it up on the side of expenditure. To this day, you have not kept this promise. Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of this budget debate, we see that the government groups have not been able to deliver the promises they have made, and that even the reputation of Austria as an economic location is one of them when it comes to carrying out their political packs. This, ladies and gentlemen, is something we do not approve of liberals and what we will show. We will prove that we are also doing better. The question is, do you want to do better? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7508	Mr Ddr. has now been reported to the House. In fact, it is true that we are talking about an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7535	Mr President. High house! I am correcting Mr Krüger in two respects. On the one hand, he referred to the report read by Mr Rada that the proceedings against Dr. Kostelka and Mag. Ederer was hired by the prosecutor's office, meaning that it was no wonder because Mr Klubobmann Kostelka was immune. - That's wrong. Klubobmann Kostelka is immune, but it has been explicitly noted that no offence has been realized. That is, immunity has not been addressed at all. And city councillor Ederer is not immune as he should know. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: So that was a lawyer's fin!]] Second point: In an incomplete way, his presentation was incorrect when he said that, in contrast to my group, in the FPÖ club, someone, even if only one suspect appeared, would have resigned, as the two examples had shown. He would have had to say in full that in the FPÖ club there is probably also a Member who has been sentenced in the first instance. The judgment is not yet valid. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: It will never be!]] This would have been part of the completeness.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7597	Mrs Dr Karlsson has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7619	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to address three points. First of all, the remote studies: Unfortunately, for years nothing has happened in this area. I spoke on all the budget debates. Now, obviously, some movement, in a positive way, has come into the matter. This is an opportunity for professionals not only to take up a study but also to keep it. Study centres in Linz, Vienna and Bregenz were set up, advice and mentors were provided, technical equipment – computers, Internet, video conferences – enabled. I very much welcome the cooperation and support of the oldest and most prestigious distance university in the world, Open University. It is also appropriate to welcome the possibility of conducting remote studies as part of a study of the presence. There is still a lack of cooperation between universities. Hopefully, the event planned for autumn of the Centre for Remote Studies and the European Association of University Remote Studies will arouse the interest of universities. Secondly, a forward-looking aspect of discrimination against women in science. We see that the female students in the field of computer science are not only no longer able to do so, but that their numbers are even declining. This is a disturbing sign. U.S. studies – I cannot do them any more – show that training in high-level information technologies is the only way for women to remain at work, especially in qualified jobs. Third point: Student exchange with Central and Eastern Europe. On the one hand, he serves to prepare our students for their work in these countries, on the other hand, but also to ensure that Eastern and Central European students come to us and get to know our society, i.e. the reduction of prejudices. The prejudice that this programme is just a one-way road is not shown by the figures. In 1995, 135 scholarship months were awarded to Austria and only 92 abroad, but in the winter semester of 1997/98, this almost didn't matter: 350 came in, 321 Austrians went out. This exchange would be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7657	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7678	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to address one issue in the transport sector, namely public transport and, in particular, public transport. Minister! I do not think you have missed the fact that in recent years, particularly disabled people have been trying to use public transport and, above all, the public transport sector. However, there is only a small number of possibilities for this. The unresolved problems have not been unknown for more than ten years. It is very important for disabled people that so-called large-space wagons are available at the ÖBB, because there is a suitable parking space for wheelchairs, but above all because there is a toilet there, which can also be used by wheelchairs. However, it is still not ensured that, if it is noted in the timetable, a large-scale carriage will be carried along. I experience it very often, because I use the train at least twice a week, that I stand at the station and find a train that has not attached a wheelchair-friendly carriage, although according to records there should be a wheelchair wagon. To my question, how can this happen and whether, when the yarn is put into operation, it is not determined by anyone, whether the wagons that should be with it are actually attached, whether there is not a competent who has to answer it, I get the answer again and again: The wagons that are there, we hang on to it, and if one isn't there, we can't hang him either. This is a really unbearable situation, Minister. I do not think I need to carry out what it means to drive from Vienna to Innsbruck in the sense that you do not have the opportunity to go to the toilet throughout the course. Mr Minister, this situation has to change. This situation has to change mainly on the south railway, because on the south railway it is really so that only two trains per day, which are really wheelchair-friendly, do not have one. And the West Railway also leaves a lot to be desired. Minister! There is no need for any investment to be made to adapt from today to tomorrow. We never asked for that. We have been waiting for it for ten years, and in the last four or five years, nothing has happened. There is no improvement for people with disabilities in mobility at all at all in the ÖBB. I have done my job to explain for myself the extent to which the railway stations and trains meet the requirements of people with disabilities. Mr. Minister, it's a mess. It is an indescribable chaos if you only try to be relocated from Attnang-Puchheim, for example, to a regional train. It is not possible to reach the regional train already in the railway station. Although there are the so-called entry-level aids – who does not know them: these are stages on which you drive with the wheelchair and where you are then raised accordingly so that you get on the train at the same level – and it is natural today that disabled people, when they have to leave a station, announce beforehand that they need this lifting platform, but, Minister, it is not natural for the station to have access aid, or if it has it that it also uses it. I have the problem again and again that I have to fight around – and not just me – so that this entry-level aid is brought up to invite me out. This is always prevented – I don't know what the reason for that is. It has happened to me very often recently that I have missed a connection train because I was not loaded out as I am. I have to be loaded! I can't agree, Minister, that someone from the train staff will transport me out of the train or help me out, because this is about the damage liability. Who, please, bears the responsibility if someone drops me just because he's too comfortable to use the access aid? Who is responsible if not only I am injured, but in some cases also my wheelchair is totally ruined and unusable? Do you know who is responsible at the moment? - The one who's been invited out. Evidence of this is enough. I know innumerable people who have not yet received a schilling of damages, let alone a new wheelchair from the ÖBB or the Ministry of Transport, because they have fallen off during unloading. The fact that insurance protection for people with disabilities is absolutely unsatisfying is already apparent only by the fact that the Railway and Vehicle Liability Act from 1959 to today has not been amended. It seems that it is not yet necessary for this law to be finally adapted with modern provisions. This Railway and Vehicle Liability Act includes not only transport regulations but also, above all, insurance protection. And disabled people are not subject to insurance under this law! I really think that is fatal, and I ask you to clean this up as quickly as possible. This Railway and Motor Vehicle Liability Act applies not only to the ÖBB, no, it is also the basis for public transport in the urban area within the framework of the transport regulations. They also know that this law is the basis for the fact that, for example, disabled people without a companion – especially wheelchair drivers – cannot use public transport. Disabled people in the wheelchair must not use public transport without a companion! A six - year - old child is very confident that it goes to school alone by bus, but a disabled person alone is not allowed to use public transport. If a corresponding disabled person passes this provision, Mr Minister, and manages to somehow get into this public transport, as I sometimes have to do, then on this journey, he himself carries the risk that, if something happens, he will not only enjoy insurance protection, but even – and that is also in there – he is guilty of the accident and, after the ECHG, one will resort to him by civil law, because he has used a transport without permission, which he should not have done. We even now have the following situation: In individual large cities it would be possible to get to buses with a corresponding ramp. But under this law, we are not allowed to go into these buses because, according to law, we could not only endanger ourselves but also lead to a threat to the other road users. The individual transport operators rely on this law and therefore do not promote disabled people. I know you already know this problem. Many disabled people have already approached you and have asked you to bring about a change of the ECHG, but nothing has happened to this day. The amendment of this law, Mr Minister, would not cost any schilling, but it was all on its own that You finally have the will to do so. I would ask you to bring about a rapid change of this ECHG, since it is by far out of date. It is inconceivable for me that a law has never been in need of innovation since 1959, Mr Minister, because it must have changed a little. One thing is also important to me – I come back to the ÖBB –: It is not unknown that mobility disabled people usually benefit from the possibility – if there is – of taking the car on the train so as not to have to drive far distances themselves. Minister! I do not know if you know that there is no night train on the whole of the West and South Railways that carries a wheelchair car. Traveling during the night and taking the car are simple and impossible for disabled people! Although people with disabilities in particular depend to a large extent on public transport, these people are not only able to use this offer. Minister! I made contact with the high-performance train-AG weeks ago because it is planned to remodel individual railway stations. I have done this so that these stations are being rebuilt in such a way that they really bring something and thus really have every citizen and every citizen. First of all, it's always about the problem: Does the station need a lift or not? Especially if the station is three-track, ask this question immediately. I have now looked at some projects of railway stations to be rebuilt, and we have come to the conclusion that it is ten times more sensible to build covered ramps after the ÖNORM 1600 than lifts, which most of the time do not work when they are needed. I would ask you, Mr Minister, not to forget that since July we have had a constitutional provision which states that disabled people must not be discriminated against and that the federal, state and local authorities are called upon to ensure this. I mean, from your ministry, it would be easy to implement this Constitution, because right now, where so many stations are being remodeled, you could really try to adapt these stations accordingly so that they can be used for everyone. Not only have I made the offer to you, but I have already made the high-performance stretcher AG to work with me in the case of conversion measures. I'd like to see if they really meet the needs. I would like to make this offer to you today and hope that it will be used, because the conditions for the mobility of disabled people in the public sector are a disaster in Austria, compared to the Scandinavian countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! I would like to hand over to you – I want to see the opportunity – a letter from the "self-determined life initiative" in Upper Austria, which in a few points concretely indicates where the problems of the legislation lie and what changes are required. I would like to give you the letter with the request to contact this group and give it a call date. It would really be time for that. Transport companies in the individual Länder will not change their attitude nor will they be willing to transport disabled people without a companion, as long as the ECHG is not properly innovationed and it is a "must" for public transport companies to transport disabled people without a companion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that you will finally meet these minimum demands at a realistic time, because they mean almost no financial effort and because it is already ten or twelve years to meet these needs. Minister! I think it is very important – and I say this now from my own experience – to finally talk about the extent to which the railway staff are obliged to use the access aid, and what legal possibilities users of public transport have if the railway staff do not use the access aids or prevent their use. I know these are only small things for you, you probably have bigger projects to do more important things, but for mobility disabled people, this problem is really essential. We no longer want to stand on railway stations and have to wait until finally a train crew release comes to help us voluntarily with the technical aids in the train, and someone has to help us get out again. But I would not only like to be critical, but also to note that the railway staff of the Westbahn – I know this best because I always drive this train – are really trying to support people with disabilities, to make travelling by train as pleasant as possible to them. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Edler.]] I do this experience again and again, and I don't want to miss it, but it's not enough if the train staff work hard to get the trip going well, but then on the train station there's no one with a hub platform that allows you to get out of the train and maybe get back into the next train. This too must be ensured. It must also be ensured that these work at stations on which lifts are present. I would, however, suggest to you for the future, then if there is the option between lift and ramp to provide a standard ramp, because it is the better system, as opposed to a lift it is less maintenance-necessary. A good ramp, which meets the requirements of the B 1600, is always more sensible and, above all, more cost-effective than a lift, which usually does not work if you need it most. I ask you, contact me, we have good proposals, and above all we have competent people who can really support you in offering a public transport that really brings something to those who want to use it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7818	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7839	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Now, mental flexibility is needed, because I'm returning to science. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] You're used to that. Only two very short comments. First: I am very glad that it has succeeded in extending and enriching the supply of education through institutions such as the Danube University. We all know how important these institutions are, in particular, to make postgraduate training practical. Especially the Danube University has focussed on economics and management, telecommunications, information and media, European integration, cultural sciences, environmental sciences, health economics – this was nowhere before. And this range of learning is referring to the needs of our time and related to practice. We cannot afford to move too far away from practice with such scientific institutions, but we must make this knowledge usable, in the practical circumstances of postgraduate training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out once again that newly founded educational institutions, which fulfil an important educational mission, should not simply die of hunger, but should be strengthened and best supported. [[Call to the liberals:But not artificially fed!]] You may need to feed them artificially once. Secondly, I should like to point out the need for scientific research in the field of genetic engineering. I am glad that the Ministry of Science – late, but still! – which also recognized and finally won reason over fear policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Scientific research within the framework of genetic engineering opens up endless possibilities – I only point to medicine. In this context, I would just like to point out that I am also active in this field of erythropoitin, which is produced from genetic engineering. It is a hormone of the adrenal cortex and allows the appropriate blood cells to be formed in the bone marrow. In the past, appropriate blood canneds had to be administered, now this possibility is given. Biotechnologies are, however, also an important scientific basis for research at the Austrian workplace. Research will create new jobs. 5 000 highly qualified jobs have already been created in Austria, and 50 000 would be possible. The ÖVP has taken seriously the concerns expressed by people in the context of genetic engineering and has been committed to balancing ethical, environmental, scientific and economic interests. A highly developed country such as Austria can only exist in international comparison with the low-cost countries if it provides above-average services in the technology sector and does not fall back in development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7895	Next word: Mr Dr. Grollitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7916	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! "Ministry without Minister" recently entitled "The Press" and wrote: The universities feel abandoned, they do not feel a university policy, they miss a determined science policy. The Minister is missing, writes Mr Erich Witzmann. In its own series, the SPÖ, one will vehemently reject the accusation of the abstinence of the Minister of Science. In the party one is very well present, he speaks at district events and future forums, speaks at program days, clubs et cetera. Universities and research need a minister to get dressed and do not lose himself in nebulous thinking games. Students and researchers need a contact person. – As far as "The Press" and Mr. Erich Witzmann are concerned. Federal Minister! In fact: They seem to me like an unroutined carriage, which must extend the reins in accordance with the legal provisions and then no longer be able to steer the horses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: such a fool!]] The tactic to insist, Mr Federal Minister, that if the horses are not fed enough, they are transparent, but also fatal. [[Abg. May. Posch: You are a poet!]] The universities simply cannot be organized with conventional means of regulating themselves, in-house politics, in a modern form. If you take on board the pressurized activity report of the University Curatorium, you will notice the problems you face in implementing the UOG 1993 at each university. Federal Minister! I trust to say this because I come from a house that is most willing to implement the proposals of the law as a demonstration university. But that's why: What is the problem of the board of trustees? Budget data: Old concept; lack of online access lacks interuniversity connections. – Personal data: Parallel hands-on systems without synchronization. - Room data: Three parallel trade systems, no data alignment. – Course offer: No systematic computer recording, no automated allocation of input and output. – Learning question: No systematic recording. – Other teaching: Henical coverage of the work reports. – Research performance: Henical coverage of the work reports. – student data: No IT concept. We have already discussed this in the Studienförderungsgesetz. These are not formulations, as the opposition politician chooses and seeks, but these are activity reports of the University Curatorium, which have recently appeared. Federal Minister! It must be seen in this way – Mrs Petrovic has also argued in this direction – that this partial right, this partial autonomy, is simply not accepted and judged by the universities. "Being a little pregnant," you can't, you can't. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] The universities need full lawfulness, they need an exemption from demarcation. Mr Krüger has already referred to a motion for a resolution by the Liberals. We shall discuss this in detail in the Committee. I would ask you to make a clear statement on these issues. They are based on the fact that the university's discharge from its incompetence must be sought by granting full autonomy and legitimacy. That's our goal. Universities must be established as foundations. Each university may receive full budget authority. We have proposals for the accreditation of private universities, we have proposals for research and teaching. The university should be free to determine which courses of study are offered by it. The state has withdrawn as a provider. It may only intervene if equal opportunities are at risk on the demand side. The following applies to the scientific staff: The corset, which is now used for personnel management, is to be eliminated. Federal Minister! Open your mind! Let us use the possibilities of the law towards liberation! In optimistic view: The universities are waiting for a Federal Minister to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7978	Mrs Ablinger is also on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e7996	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We can also use budget debates to think about the area itself a little more and not just about the figures associated with it. I would like to see this opportunity to talk a little bit about universities in the field of social tasks. I would like to point out that there are three areas that are important for universities. I am referring to an interesting presentation of Ada Pellert, which notes in itself that there is the importance of social relevance, and it means that knowledge is important as a location factor, as a production factor, and that universities should play a major role in social debates. - On the one hand. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: "To One"!]] Secondly, it says that social diversity is also essential, in the sense of reflection, constructive criticism at universities, awareness of contradictions that exist in a society, and also as a function of evaluating knowledge. The third point would be – and I think this is a very interesting contribution that universities could make – the moderation of society. If there are apocalyptic designs for the future – a little overstated – the universities could be a place of communication where one could discuss the questions of the future and the questions of the design of the future. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's exactly what happens!]] But not enough. In my opinion, universities could play a very recognized role as initiators, as the role of moderators in such social debates. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What is against this?]] What's against that? Mr Lukesch, there is no question that the university is already partly taking over these tasks. I believe that this moderation of social learning processes is something that the university uses to a far too little extent. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a question of acceptance!]] The question of acceptance? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a question of acceptance!]] Yes, but it is the question whether it uses it in a self-confident way and says: We mix here, we are here to share in these century debates. I believe that this will be accepted if it does. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Who has fed science and technology hostility?]] No, no! It is only in the meantime, Mr Lukesch, that the universities are no longer making use of this, and they are no longer expected to do so. In many other areas of research, outside universities, we expect answers to a lot of questions, and we also receive these answers, such as unemployment – to name just one example – which is a scourge of our time. But we don't expect anything from the university at all. I think a problem is the discipline-oriented university. There is this saying: "Communities have problems, universities have departments", or how Peter Klotz formulates that – and that's really overstretched –: The reality is naughty enough to go beyond faculty boundaries, some professors are not. – In that respect, I believe that this would be an approach to open up a discussion about it – which will certainly start already, but not to a sufficient extent – which role diversity could represent for the university. I also believe that professors and, of course, other university members see themselves not only as professors in their role, but also as participants in social processes. I also believe that we need, and this is something that we still have far less to say, a scientific journalism and also the willingness to make the knowledge available to the public at universities at all. [[Congratulations to Dr Antoni and Dr. Karlsson.]] Thirdly, In my opinion, a point that opposes the university's duties is the problem of upgrading teaching. I believe that there is still a lack of education and that career criteria among university members are still far too much in research and too little in teaching. [[Congratulations to Dr Antoni and Dr. Karlsson.]] For I also believe that we have a very traditional concept of research, which presents the study of the researcher as unimportant and merely the result as essential and which is not also the process. He says: It is about abstraction of personal viewpoint, and then we look at the result, because that is the important thing in it. However, if you see knowledge as socially constructed and knowledge generation and research as part of a mediation and as part of communication, then research and teaching will be more intertwined and more than social construction. This is an essential point. On the third point, I think there is something against it, namely the question of management at universities. I think that a conflict has arisen, arose or existed here, which is quite artificial: On the one hand, there are the intellectuals who say we are responsible for the ideas, and on the other hand, those who understand themselves as managers and say they are responsible for the organization. For intellectuals, so to speak, the organization is only the means to generate knowledge, and for the managers, knowledge is the means to make the organization more powerful. I believe that both of us need and that this conflict that has arisen here is more artificial. So it's about opposites that need each other. I believe that we are at a stage in the transition from state administration to State supervision – and I am at the last point. There are too many discussions here – we have already heard this from the UOG – whether they are women or different other areas in which concerns are raised. And Mrs Petrovic has also mentioned that this withdrawal of the State is particularly detrimental to these groups in the women's field. I'd see it like this: I believe that the state has to create a fundamental framework, and it must, and certainly cannot withdraw from it, develop and clearly define scientific guidelines. He must say, for example, that the promotion of women in research must be an essential point for us, and we also provide framework conditions for that. And he must make resources and money available. On the other hand, I believe that the university must develop the ability to resolve conflicts on the ground, and also have the courage to develop a culture of conflict and conflict there, so that these conflicts can also be carried out in a democratic way. As far as the UOG in this discussion is concerned, I always say: Reforms solve problems, they undoubtedly create new ones, but this is a process that goes on, of course. In this respect, there are a number of challenges for universities, and here I am actually very hopeful that we will constantly face these challenges and solve them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8114	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8136	Mr President. High house! Allow me to comment on some of the questions raised so far, first of all on some of the questions raised in the Science chapter. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Gredler gave a relatively detailed opinion on the subject of technology policy and tried to present a sad story on technology policy. – Madam honourable Member, it is just not the way you have described it. It is true that the Federal Government has developed, developed and developed a technology policy concept of the Federal Government in a very solidly prepared process, involving external experts, and that this concept was presented in the National Council in December 1996. It is true that this concept of principle has created a very detailed approach to the realization of various measures in the field of the intensification of exchange, such as between technical universities and the regional economy, but also to the development of centres of competence under the so-called K-plus programme. It is also true that, first of all, we are in the implementation phase of this measure between the technical universities and the small and medium-sized enterprises of the region concerned and that, secondly, we are in the field of the K-plus programmes in the pilot phase in which the preparation for the full installation of these centres of competence, which are then promoted for four years, is taking place. I therefore think that this is a very, very consistent and very successful way of doing so. What you have tried to mix is this very successful and also funded form of research and technology promotion with the question of their appropriate external organisation. You're right: The debate on the external organisation was long-lasting and will not lead to the changes – at least not to all – proposed by the two technology representatives of the Federal Government. But the same thing with the other, I think, is a bold undertaking, which is surprising even by the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Did you spend the billion last year or not?]] Second point: Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Petrovic – unfortunately not present – has referred to the question of university financial autonomy and has pointed out that the margin of only 10 per cent who could have been granted to universities has not been granted. - That's wrong. It is true that, on the occasion of the announcement of the annual credit framework for universities, the universities were given exactly this 10 per cent margin, in my letter to the universities, and that we only granted 10 per cent this year for 1998, because this is the first step to allow universities to gain first experience in the context of this increased freedom. We are planning to take a next and bigger step in 1999 because it is also about preparing universities for this autonomy. But I fully agree that the universities themselves should be able to make the most of the resources allocated to them. Now to Member of the Grollitsch, who has proposed to introduce a certain legal form for universities, namely the form of the foundation: Mr President, I do not think much of this idea, especially because we are in the middle of discussions with two universities to find out the best legal form for these universities, not just for these two, but for universities in general. We have embarked on a new process of further development, including the university's right of organisation, on a process of further development, which is particularly marked by the voluntaryness of the universities concerned, and which shows that these two universities are already able to speak autonomously with the ministry and also to carry out a meaningful development process themselves. I can therefore tell you that until the summer of this year, we will have carried out the necessary work, which shows the form of organisation and the accompanying other contractual or, if necessary, legal regulations, and then we will have to enter into the necessary negotiations with those concerned, including the Public Service Trade Union, but also with the Ministry of Finance, in order to achieve a legal regime, a framework regulation still during this legislative period, because it is necessary and desirable to further develop and expand the legal status and scope of the universities' scope for action according to their development. The universities that are currently in conversation with us are those who already understand the UOG 1993 and therefore want to take the next step. On the question raised to me by Mrs Petrovic, whether the BIG in its present form is useful and useful: Madam President, right in front of me was the Minister who would have been in charge of it. I am a little surprised that you have thrown this question at me. Farnleitner could have answered them, even with data. To you again, Mrs Gredler: They have said on the subject of women's research that nothing has happened at all. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Too little!]] I think that is a bit of a bold statement that goes beyond the necessary extent of criticism from an opposition party. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Too little has happened!]] First: We set up a number of women's research centres during this legislative period – too few, you can say, but it took place for the first time! Secondly, We set up a Women's Research Chair. You can say, too few. But it is now one that takes up his work in the autumn. And with regard to women's vocations – you have strongly pointed out the quota of just 4 percent among the professors – I do not need to be particularly ashamed of criticism. I have made the effort to look at how the development was among my predecessors and how it is now. My predecessor has appointed 8 per cent women in his term of office, my predecessor has appointed 13 per cent women, and I have now reached a quota of 25 per cent. You can say that's not enough, but it's definitely a significant increase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Maybe I can say one last thing about science. Mrs Ablinger has just referred to one of these aspects, which I am particularly interested in. We have gained a very clear impression from all discussions – both with universities themselves and with students as well as in particular with potential employers or graduates of universities – that a core area of reform in the universities is where it is about the universality of education or education offered there. In other words, it is not only a question of offering specialised training, but also of creating a framework for development in which students actually learn a education that goes beyond the subject area. At the same time, there is the same requirement on the part of companies that cooperate closely with universities within the framework of third-party funding. These companies are generally very satisfied with this cooperation, however, see a printing site, which is that many times the institutes with which they are in the contractual relationship cover a very, very narrow area and are not in the necessary communicative contact with other institutes of the same university. All these aspects and suggestions have prompted me to start a preliminary work with us at the Ministry, which is based on the fact that from next year on we want to write a research project, a large research project, which only universities, if they participate in more than three fields, should be open, because we are concerned, first of all, by stimulating cooperation within these fields, and secondly, to raise questions at universities that deal with social issues and which enable universities to provide relevant answers. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I think we must invite the universities to do what we would like from them and give them the necessary resources to do so. I therefore think that this is a very positive proposal. We've already started working on it. Perhaps a few brief comments on the subject of transport. Mr Barmüller has worked intensively on the question of frequencies in the 1800s band. Deputies! Occasionally, a person may also be able to stand in the way of the intensity of being admitted to the knowledge. They have tried with special attention to show that § 125 para. 3(a) in that form, as it is now in the committee's debate, solves a problem in a wrong way. However, they have unfortunately overlooked the fact that §125 para. 3 remains. So it's not that we're dealing with the problem of mobilkom and max.mobil. not to resolve or resolve in a way that would not be acceptable to Connect, but because of the fact that § 125 para. 3 it is very clear that, from certain points of view defined there, the two already existing licensees, max.mobil. and mobilkom, have a right to assign additional frequencies if they reach certain limits. Whether they meet these limits should be established in an administrative procedure before the Telekom Control Commission. The procedure is under way. If they start it, they're entitled to five megahertz. This is true! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But I didn't argue!]] What is being discussed today is a provision of § 125, that is, para. 3a. It states that, if they want to, they can also obtain additional frequencies, but they must not use them before the end of the term of protection provided in the law for the third operator of a mobile phone licence, which was still unknown at that time, i.e. the middle of the year 2000. If you read this in the context, I think you can get closer to understanding. That is why I have allowed myself to give an indication. Furthermore, we have, of course, also submitted to the responsible Directorate-General in Brussels for consideration to the Committee's proposal today, because it is our aim to introduce an EU-compliant system. The DG 4 also fully endorses this proposal. Therefore, it will be EU-compatible – whether it will please you, too, I do not know yet. The discussion will continue in the evening hours. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Minister! What are the complaints about?]] Let me answer another question. They have just accused us of having the intention of achieving revenue if we are about to carry out the auction of the remaining 1800 frequencies. – Mr deputies, yes, we have the intention of achieving revenue! And not just that! In addition, I also intend to make all the revenue generated from research and development available – and this in agreement with the Minister of Finance! Let me conclude by saying a few words by Mrs Haidlmayr. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will, of course, take all the experiences you have reported on the occasion of not only bringing them to the Board of Directors of the ÖBB, but also inviting him and inviting him to comment on them and to stop the abuses you have described. I must remind you, however, that I am not the ÖBB itself, but the owner and transport minister. That is why I will do so in my power to ensure that people with disabilities also find an appropriate offer in public transport, both in those whom I am responsible and in general. [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] The same applies to the question of station reconstructions. It's not primarily up to me to rebuild the stations. However, since we are essentially making the funding available for it, I will ensure that appropriate aspects of mobility-friendly design are taken into account when restructuring and re-building facilities at railway stations. On your last point, the criticism that I had not yet implemented a revision of the Railway Vehicle Enforcement Act, I would like to say the following: Firstly, this is Parliament's case, and secondly, the leading responsibility for the ECHG in the Ministry of Justice – and not with me. However, I would also like to take your suggestions from the point of view of transport policy to the point of view of addressing Mr Michalek and to ask him to prepare for a corresponding innovation in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8265	The next speaker is Mr Dipl. Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8287	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by previous speakers. Minister! It is obvious that you now have to try to sell the fact that the technology policy concept has failed in the intended form now as a success, saying that the institutions are not reformed in the form provided by the authors of the concept, but there are finally and finally the "technology billion". Minister! You know that this "technology billion" is actually a mogel pack. It comes first of all very shrinking and second, with a certain delay to the recipients. Thirdly, it is exactly that money that has been saved in the last few years at the eligible value, which is now sold from another bag to the promoters under a different name. In reality, this technology billion is more of a marketing issue; it is not a major innovation within the meaning of technology policy. Minister! The BIG has been addressed several times. One has the impression – and this is the case through all the chapters of the budget – that this creates a state in the state. The costs to be paid to the BIG are increasing in all departments: in the educational and national defence resort and also in yours. The lever is set up, otherwise we will soon be unable to afford our public buildings and may have to sell them. Mr. Minister! I am pleased that Mr Niederwieser has taken up a call that we have been making for a long time, namely the commitment of the national bank's dissolving reserves to research and development. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Aha! You have always said that is for income tax reform!]] Perhaps for your income, which we urgently need to reform. I'm fine, we don't need to reform that. I'm satisfied with 60,000 s. We probably need a tax reform for you. [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Ask colleague Haider!]] In terms of women's promotion, something has happened – if we are already talking about it. I took from the last funding report that Mr Brinek has received a funding for her project "Life Space Museums". I congratulate you on this promotion. I think the project is already completed. On Mr Leiner's statement, I would like to say that the institutions should be put up with this: If they only need to be fed artificially for some time and no more revitalization is possible, they should also be put to death in dignity. Back to the budget. Minister! It is very much to do in your resort and very far-reaching. Seibersdorf is increasingly becoming a disaster. The researchers working there are insecure. No one can demand that anyone who is tormented by fears of existence deliver productive research results. However, this time the budget programme does not contain a clear commitment to this research institution. The funds will be reduced from 430 million to 380 million schilling. The confession to Seibersdorf is thus reserved for Sunday speeches. At the same time, of course, there is a risk of loss of know-how. We have already pointed out, in the context of a request concerning the exit from nuclear technology, that the Republic is at risk of losing important know-how and also of losing competence in the field of nuclear safety. The Federal Government has long passed its decision on the major research institutions – keywords: Eurocryst, Austron, they're a long way off. You have not been interested in the opportunity for numerous spin-offs that have brought a clear boost to the labour market in the field of highly qualified jobs. The reform of the institutions, which, as mentioned above, should be responsible for technology transfer, has also disappeared in the drawer – in Rust still highly rejoiced. Mr. Minister! The non-university research and development landscape carnates. We have accepted this issue and will try to contribute to the public presentation of this important applied research area here in the House as part of an event. In a grateful way, leading personalities of Austrian and international technology policy have agreed to participate in this event. – Thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen! Research must be able to be carried out continuously, and this requires continuous financial resources in the form of multiannual budgets. The camera lysics – as said more often by this pult – is not a suitable instrument for this. However, each track is still missing from multi-annual financial plans. On the other hand, the money is increasingly used in the science administration. The administrative burden itself increases from 349 to 386 million schilling. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on a problem which is that more and more young Austrians wishing to study in Austria have obtained their admission to study abroad, such as at German schools, are being rejected by the Austrian universities because they do not fulfil the conditions of admission of the country in which the school was completed and where, as in Germany, there are restrictions on access. We believe that these Austrians should be given the opportunity, after obtaining a matura certificate abroad, to start and complete a study at Austrian universities. In this sense, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8363	The application is duly filed, filed and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8387	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would now like to deal with some of the issues of transport, especially recent traffic laws – I mean, above all, the new driving licence law. What should, as it were, be created as a fundamental work of the traffic laws is now proved by its regulations as a highly controversial act, which is to be repaired after almost half a year. Above all, the problems of the regulations also concern us parliamentarians. Although these regulations are the responsibility of the Ministry and not the responsibility of the National Council, the population concerned does not, of course, make any such distinction, but also makes us Members responsible for the difficulties, margins and difficulties of these regulations. Federal Minister! In the future, therefore, the ÖVP must demand that the basic principles of these regulations are also known in the law and are to be agreed with us before we can adopt such fundamentally new transport laws or revisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The cost of mandatory traffic psychological studies, such as those for mopeds, is one of these cases. For the first version of the Health Regulation provided for a price of 5 000 s. Of course, 5 000 S cannot be brought up by a youth and are not acceptable in this relationship either. Now, as a result of the many protests, it costs 2 500 S – at least a step-by-step success that we could achieve on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! No longer in modern times is the de facto monopoly of the board of trustees for post-schooling and traffic psychological examinations. As you yourself know, in the implementation of the driving licence law, the board of trustees was temporarily unable to offer re-training courses to the requested extent. In your answer to the question It itself confirms that, at about 8 per cent of the post-schooling time, in the overall Austrian average, there has already been delays and the ministry has even been forced to return the driver's licence after the withdrawal period and to adopt a corresponding regulation. This course, I believe, is not acceptable in this form! The only thing that the EIA recognises as a prerequisite for carrying out such post-schooling and transport psychological studies is to ensure and also to review the professional competence of psychologists working in this field. There must be more plurality and more variety of offers in the future! This de facto monopoly of the board of trustees must be eliminated, because it is not EU-compliant either. We shall not give in to this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We therefore need a rapid revision of the driving licence law, which will reorganise the largest enforcement deficits and weaknesses until summer, and also make a legal clarification for the steering of special vehicles of firearms within the meaning of the application already submitted by the coalition. In autumn, after intensive discussions and discussions on this law have also been held at expert level, a final novel will bring the final revision and reorganisation of this law. I thought this was a proper and sensible way of doing this. On the issue of "point driver's license", I would just like to say that we do not want an unforgivable rapid shot, but a model that is in line with the countries and the driver's organizations, which does not entail any additional financial and bureaucratic effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A look at Germany shows us that the organizational effort there is very great compared to the actual effect. Although there are at least 6 million point driver's licenses registered in the German Central Register, only 0.3 percent of drivers have 18 or more points and therefore lose the score driver's license. . In this context, we want a central driver's licence register to be established first, then a reasonable model must be developed and the financing issue and the technical and organisational question clarified together with the countries. The only thing that makes sense is how it works. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One word on the topic of "Bundesbahn" and "Enhancement of the Railways" – a very important area. Rail transport must continue to be promoted in the future. However, the question arises whether the right transport policy relations are made. 3 billion Schillings will be available next year for the extension and loophole of the motorways – not from the budget, but from the tolls and vignettes. This means that the drivers themselves pay for this expansion. However, for the expansion of the railways, 143 billion schillings are available by the middle of next decade, i.e. around 12 billion schillings per year, although, as the previous experiences have shown, a maximum of 9 billion schillings can be installed on average. Never before has there been as much money from budget resources or through the Rail Infrastructure Financing Act available for rail development, as is the case now. It would really be to check whether it would not be reasonable to rethink this relation of funds to road and rail. Federal Minister! In principle, we support your proposal that, in order to increase competition on the rails, ÖBB's infrastructure and rail transport sectors should also be entrepreneurship separate. You made such a proposal some time ago. We have always represented these, already in the disseminating of the ÖBB and in the creation of our own society. At the time, however, it was rejected by the SPÖ. If this proposal is to come back today, we are the first to support it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, the ÖBB are on the right track. We support the company's clear business orientation through the new leadership. But – and I would like to say that too – the success figures and the profit reports of the ÖBB in recent years in the sales sector are only half the truth. For the public service services, for the infrastructure of the railways, the budget and thus the taxpayers will be greatly left to the vein this year too. The federal government pays out of the budget about 36 billion Schilling annually for the Austrian Federal Railways. Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, it will be necessary to critically question whether this money is being used well, efficiently and properly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8490	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8515	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== May – the question was asked at a meeting of the Budget Committee – you, Mr Minister, answered the question: Which projects were financed in each case by SCHIG, and which projects will be financed to what extent over the next ten years? Two days later, there was a broadcast from this SCHIG – I quote –: The Board of Directors of the rail infrastructure financing company is located a turnaround in the investments in the railway infrastructure. There was an investment of 8.1 billion Schilling in 1997. – Two days later it was! That's a difference of 2.5 billion schilling. Federal Minister! I wonder, How does it get to a difference of 2.5 billion schilling within two days? What did you not know on the 12th of this month, what Mr Brenner did not know at the latest on the 14th? How can this difference really be explained? The fact is that it is often a major problem when it comes to the development of transport routes with significant investments. I am surprised that Mr Kukacka has been a current and the fact that Chancellor Kanzler Klima has declared the Semmering Base Tunnel to be the "championage" issue to be a highly topical issue. Federal Minister! I would be very interested in how you explain to people in a normal discussion that this very few billions of investment, which relates only to a tunnel, is intended to solve the structural problems of the Upper Styria. The fact is that there will probably be financial problems in the implementation of the project, there will be great resistance from the population and that the investment in particular is not very useful. It is not done with the investment in the tunnel project, where you have seen problems with nature as well. You need a lot of billion schilling to expand the lead lines. You will need investment in billions for the extension of the Vienna Neustadt – Gloggnitz route, and you will need investment in billions for the Mürzzuschlag – Bruck route and further to Graz if this project is to be really attractive. Federal Minister! That's why I ask you: How do you want to take this money so that this route actually becomes attractive? Would it not be more useful to put this estimated total investment of 40 billion schilling into the immediate beginning of the construction of the south-east spange? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: I'll ask Michl Schmid!]] The South East spange is a project that is recognized by all as necessary. The South East spange is of great importance for the whole east of Austria. It solves the traffic problem that we have in the direction of Schwechat Airport, it frees a state capital such as Eisenstadt from the railway-technical dead end, bringing for a part of the East, whose inhabitants have to travel mostly, on a daily or weekly basis via a completely overburdened southern highway, which sometimes becomes the largest "parking" in Austria, especially on Mondays and Fridays. In some cases, weekly commuters may become day commuters. The purchasing power that needs to be left in Vienna could be invested in this low-infrastructural region. This would therefore lead to very reasonable consequences. [[Call to the ÖVP: What does it cost?]] Why aren't you ready to free Graz – a second state capital that has no reasonable railway connection at all – from this railway-technical dead end? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] They could create a public transport that makes sense for a total of 500 000 Austrians. But you invest billions in a dark hole! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In my view, because these arguments are incontrovertible, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8604	The request shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8629	Mr President. Minister! High house! I will continue to deal with budget science in the short term. The 1999 federal estimate has remained unchanged with 28.3 billion schilling, which corresponds to about 3.69% of the total budget, and generally enables a good performance of tasks. In doing so, 16.6 billion people go to universities, 1.8 billion to the art universities and 2.9 billion to high school institutions such as student homes, Mensen et cetera. A particularly good ratio is reflected in the comparison of actual expenditure and staff expenditure, i.e. 15.6 billion schilling for the actual expenditure versus 12.6 billion shilling for staff, which is an excellent ratio for 20,000 staff. I would just like to comment briefly on one point, namely the technical colleges, which are budgeted at 754 million schilling in the 1999 Federal estimates. This is still relatively little, it is about half of what is spent on the art universities. However, it is a lot to consider that vocational schools are a very young sector. The status quo is that there are currently about 43 degree courses with 6 200 students – that has already been said – that unfortunately the proportion of women in vocational colleges is still very low, namely 27 percent compared to universities with more than 50 percent, which may partly be due to the fact that the majority of the courses are technically oriented. However, the colleges are very attractive for students of the second educational course. About 11 percent of the students at technical colleges do not have a matura, at the universities this proportion is about 3 percent. And social permeability at the vocational colleges is also a much better one. As far as future prospects are concerned, it would be interesting to know, Mr Minister, how the further expansion after 2000 looks, starting from the 10 000 places of study: How many students will realistically be at the colleges? A comparison shows that in Germany the proportion of students in colleges is more than 30 percent, in the Netherlands even at 60 percent. The current graduates of technical colleges have had good success in the labour market in Austria. Except for a graduate, all of them have found about 180 jobs. That is, the interest of the economy is great. Above all, the prescribed practice semester leads to better entry opportunities for the high school students. 85 percent of the firms in which practical semesters have been completed are also interested in higher education students in the future. The problems that exist in particular: Almost all high-school courses are still too small, because there is only a fixed-cost degression from 1 000 students, which means that there should be no further fragmentation of the courses. You can't let that happen. The second point I would like to make is that there is an urgent need to evaluate the courses, because there is some criticism of teachers and teaching, and especially because it would be good to know how good the graduates of the universities are compared to those of the universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8680	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8701	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Eastern enlargement today requires completely new priorities in the development of railway lines in order to cope with the high growth of road transport. Minister! We have heard from Mr Kukacka that considerable resources will be available for railway construction in the next few years. As a Member of Vienna, I expect you to be a priority for the Eastern Region because this is the region most exposed to the growth of transport. Last week, your colleague, German transport minister Matthias Wissmann, signed a contract for the Transrapid, i.e. for a magnetic railway that will connect Hamburg with Berlin and open new dimensions. But it seems important to me what Wissmann has still explained. In fact, on the occasion of the signing of the contract in Berlin, it has declared that by 2010 Germany will have connected all major cities to the high-speed rail network, will extend 3 200 kilometres to replace short-haul air traffic and combat the overfill of the airspace. Austria will therefore have to be careful that we are involved in this high-speed network. Austria cannot become a slow-track train in Europe! This requires that we from Paris, Strasbourg, Munich, where the trans-European high-speed train is already planned and decided to implement the continuation via Salzburg to Vienna and further to Budapest. However, this also requires in the North-South relationship that we realize the extension of a high-speed line from Berlin to Vienna in order to create the connection to the northern connecting line Paris – Cologne – Berlin – Warsaw. This is a very essential matter, and we must move forward because otherwise we are at risk of being pushed out of Budapest and not becoming a hub in the East-West and North-South transports of Central Europe in Vienna. It can only be achieved a high-speed route on the North-South relationship and not two; that would be a waste of resources. It is known that Hungary is trying to reach a route through the city of Prussia to Budapest under the so-called corridor concept for Central and Eastern Europe. That's quite clear: If we decide if we are really pressured, then Berlin –Vienna will be unbeatable because the traffic on this route is of course much bigger. But it must happen! Vienna's Landtag has declared itself by a large majority in favour of Vienna being a traffic node between East and West, North and South. Mr Häupl has recently complained publicly that there is a danger that Vienna will be approached. He's not alone with that. ==References====External links== April writes: "Railfiasko forces third runway." It also says: Explosions of the EU will be around Vienna, and there is nothing going on in Austria's railway expansion, so Schwechat is expanding. Although the expansion of the airport Schwechat is necessary, it is true that these important projects are not currently being sufficiently implemented. Minister! Nor should the EU Presidency be the reason to put Austrian concerns on ice on this issue at this time, but they must be represented – all the more so than the expansion of the trans-European networks is only possible with the help of European financial organisations and it is necessary to avoid parallel activities. This is also a task of coordinating the European Presidency. I should therefore like to ask you here with all the emphasis that you are actually actively supporting this problem, which is a major problem in the whole of Austria and which is a historical change.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8756	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8777	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I only have 3 minutes of speaking time available, so a few points in telegram style. First of all, in the direction FPÖ: Unfortunately, there is only one representative here who did not comment on this chapter either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The motivation has already dropped very strongly!]] I heard words like "mogel pack" today, which the technology billions reach. I would like to suggest to the highly valued colleagues from the FPÖ a little bit to inquire about. They have obviously not heard of any action lines being drawn up in the ministry; Action lines aimed at greater links between science and the economy, on the creation of centres of competence, which will ultimately have an effect in practice on the fact that there will be more jobs. It will therefore be possible to create new jobs through these technology plans. To speak only here and then not to be present, that is certainly not the way we want to be in this country, ladies and gentlemen, very much valued. As a Lower Austrian Member, I would like to comment on two points which are very important to me. One is Seibersdorf. There has also been a very distorted picture given by one of my previous speakers. Seibersdorf is an institution which today is recognized worldwide, which is represented in very strong cooperation with the European Union and which is now on its way to further gain ground in connection with the integration efforts of our Central and Eastern European neighbours, the former communist states. Of course, it is not to be found that there have been some problems in Seibersdorf, which is the result of the leadership, because he took a professorship in Germany and the second managing director has resigned for personal reasons. The management must now be re-opened, but it is currently in good hands, and the staff is ready for co-operation. Seibersdorf is running, and also what the state grants that the public sector grants are, it is not the way one of my liberal speakers has described. Thirdly, University Centre for Postgraduate Education and Training, says: Donau University Krems. A few years ago, ladies and gentlemen, we were born a child who is not yet quite firmly on his two legs. Krems is currently struggling with certain structural difficulties, especially what the leadership has to do with. Krems needs various organizational changes. It is also true that from the relationship between the students in Krems are quite the most expensive in all of Austria, but in part these are "children's diseases", and I would like to ask the Minister of State to draw up a draft law which allows us here in the House to eliminate the weaknesses that still exist in Krems today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8814	The next speaker is Mr Ernst Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8838	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! There's an ÖVP delegate! I see that the hall is still a little filled, and I am glad that it is! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The plenary today and for itself had a very pleasant appearance, which should be more often. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:...Durable solution!]] Or it could be a permanent solution! But it may also be that someone is being sought, and that is why one has to leave the hall more often. [[New cheerfulness and applause at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It could also be that a Peter Rosenstingl is being tried. I hope they find him. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the clubs have been spoken about more often. I too would like to say a few words to the clubs. I believe that the request made by the Austrian People's Party is an excellent one. I'll tell you why. In my opinion, not all clubs, even obscene clubs, should be able to make events. They are then competitors to non-profit associations, such as the voluntary fire brigade, the Red Cross, or sports clubs. What we need to clarify is the tax question. I can say from my federal state at least that the sports clubs are now being checked by the financial offices, and that is the existence of the sports clubs. There's something we need to do! In Styria and Upper Austria, this has always worked out, since there has been no problems at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can leave all of this as it has been so far, so there is no need for action at all. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] But as far as the tax side is concerned, there is a need for action. In any case, the following is important: We need a quick solution to the problem due to VwG's knowledge! We need to find such a thing. Let us make a common effort to make a reasonable arrangement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a Styrian Member, of course, I also come to talk about a particular traffic problem, which is called Semmering Base Tunnel and Neue Südbahn. Unfortunately, Mr Schweitzer is not here now because he is looking for his colleague. [[Call the ÖVP: Do you believe this?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It could be. I wish he could find him. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I wish he could find the millions!]] – Mr Schweitzer spoke about the billions that the Semmering Base Tunnel costs. The tunnel doesn't cost so much, but it costs something. We definitely need the Semmering base tunnel because it's important for the Styria. I would just like to say to Mr Schweitzer that he should go to Graz once and ask his colleagues in the Steiermärk Landtag. Of the FPÖ there are ten delegates in the Steiermärkian Landtag. He's supposed to talk to them! One of them was also sitting here, that was Michael Schmid, he's now a state councillor in Styria. The FPÖ Landtag Members are all for it! – And what does it look like inside here? – Our Styrian Members, the National Councils, are against it! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: How do you know that?]] You should agree with each other once so that you know what you want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the South East Spange I would like to say: As an Easter steirer I am of course for the South-East spange! I have no difficulty either. However, I have difficulties with the date of construction. In the next 40 years, the South-East Spange will not be built. In my opinion, therefore, it is not an alternative to the Semmering base tunnel at all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Although the light that indicates the end of my speaking time, I would nevertheless like to say something, and I would like to quote what you, Minister of State, have said in Styria. You said: I fully support these Styrian demands, because that is exactly the main part of my transport policy concept for Austria. The implementation of the new South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel is a matter of European importance and not a matter between federal states. First and foremost, it concerns Austria and in particular the economic locations of Lower Austria, Vienna, Styria and Carinthia. Without the New South Railway with the Semmering Base Tunnel, Austria would decouple from the important oberItalian economic area for us. The route across Slovenia to Hungary and the European East is already under construction. It is therefore necessary to act very quickly. - Quote. [[Federal Minister Dr. Nickt agrees.]] – There is nothing to add to it. Finally, one sentence: The Semmering Base Tunnel should connect us – and not separate!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8975	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e8996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only believe that the tunnel should connect to it fully, and I can only hope that the FPÖ and the ÖVP will succeed in bringing this link into their own ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But go!]] To say that, I'm sure you'll allow me! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I only have 4 minutes of speaking time available. Ladies and gentlemen! Transport trends are worrying. We know that 80 percent of freight traffic is on the road. We know exactly that, if we do not counter it, there is a risk that the proportion of rail in the field of freight transport will grow to 5 per cent in a few years. But we also know, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to expect a huge growth in traffic on the road when Eastern Europe approaches towards Western Europe and, above all, when the European Union is expanding to the east. It must be clear to all of us that a trend change can only be made through a pan-European transport policy. Austria has always been the pioneer of an ecological, environmentally friendly transport policy, and I believe that we should continue this path. The three pillars that appear to be very important in this area are transport prevention, transport relocation towards environmentally friendly modes of transport and proximity to cost-effectiveness. As I said, Austrians must be able to convince the Europeans of this transport policy strategy! I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, as Austria is in reality at the centre of transport policy development, we can only meet the demand that comes upon us if we try to deal with it in a pan-European initiative. Ladies and gentlemen! Studies indicate that freight traffic can increase by up to 300 percent from East to West by 2010 and that traffic flows can increase by another 70 percent from 1992 to 2010 – although already at a very high level. That is why we need appropriate measures, including huge investments in infrastructure: on the one hand, in rail development, on the other hand in the gap. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kukacka said that the road sector was very disadvantaged. To this end, it should be noted that: In 1996 we invested a total of 23 billion Schilling, for the rail sector and for the road sector each 8 billion Schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Please, that's right! This is in a study by the Ministry, but not by the Ministry of Transport, but by the Ministry of Finance, colleague Kukacka. A total of 32 billion Schilling will be invested in the areas of construction, rail and road in 1998. For the first time, the area of rail with 11.7 billion schilling will be in front of the area of road with 10.65 billion schilling. In 1999 a total of 35 billion Schilling will be invested, of which 15 billion Schilling and 10.8 billion Schilling will be spent on the rail sector. This is what the financial flows running into the infrastructure look like. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You can't compare that to motorways!]] I would also like to say a few words on the matter of cost-truth; I have already mentioned them today. It is necessary that we also get a road pricing for rail pricing. That's just necessary. It is also necessary to pay for the truck at last a toll dependent on performance, a benefit fee. Last sentence: Transport safety policy is important to me. I believe that this is not only about deep human action but also about cost-effective measures. The EU has identified the following in its transport safety package: A road fatality is estimated at around 1 million ECU. If it is the SPÖ's goal to achieve 600 fatalities by the year 2005, that is not only a deep human concern, a challenge for all of us, but also an extremely budget effective measure, because we save the economy about 8 billion schilling of costs. If one were to count injury and property damage, it would make up several billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that transport safety policy is very important. I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, especially the Minister for Transport, who has always been concerned about road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9071	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on the local transport financing law. The supply of services in public and regional transport is often characterised by a lack of connections in the use of different transport services or by parallel transport of rail and mail, to name just a few examples. This also leads to the fact that the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities are very different in terms of the financing of local transport and that they are often called for expensive transport solutions out of regional policy interest. Now there is a draft law in which there is to be a reorientation of passenger and regional transport. A new local financing law must bring new skills and new funding possibilities in order to finally achieve the goal we all want, namely the shift from passenger to public transport. I see a remarkable and very positive view of the reorganisation and competence of general transport planning. For example, transport planning should, in principle, be with the affected municipalities and regional transport planning with the respective federal states, with, of course, a common procedure for various projects. In the course of this local transport financing law, new tasks are also assigned to the transport associations. In principle, the spatial scope of a transport network must be aligned with the respective passenger flows as well as with the customers. In particular, new structures are to be built. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Yes!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In order to meet the long-term public transport objective, namely to increase the frequency effectively and sustainably in public transport, quality criteria in particular need to be improved. For example, we need user-friendly designs of vehicles and ticket delivery devices, good accessibility and design of stops, taking into account short travel possibilities, the prevention of parallel traffic, the optimal connection and connection of transport through coordinated timetables, the connection of rural areas and peripheral regions, and above all an improvement in the vehicle material. That's why I welcome the start of the station offensive. A new management system is to be installed by 2003 which provides for the construction of e-stations on remote control. The revitalisation of station buildings is also to be addressed. All these are necessary investments to increase the safety and comfort for the customer. Mr. Federal Minister! However, I do not understand how this draft law provides for the necessary structures to finance the planned measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Lower Austrian MP also a sentence on the Semmering Base Tunnel: What God has separated through a mountain, let man not be bound by a hole!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9136	The next speaker does not come from Tyrol or Vorarlberg, but is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9157	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to call on God, but just say, Mr Fink's speech really impressed me personally, because he spoke bindingly for the common, for the Semmering Base Tunnel, and I think we should think that we should join forces in the decision-making transport policy, ladies and gentlemen, and also the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is already incomprehensible to me that Mr Kukacka meant today that the railway infrastructure projects could not be implemented, and that the funds should be used again for road development. His statement was similar. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: reading!]] I believe that the expansion of the rail sector – which we have jointly identified or developed in the government – has been significantly reduced in recent decades in relation to the extension of the road sector. It is right – and Mr Parnigoni stressed this too – and ecologically absolutely necessary to force rail development at last. Ladies and gentlemen! It is incomprehensible for us when projects are hindered and prevented. DDr. The King has spoken today of the need for European transport policy – and I must say, particularly as a Vienna MP, that it is necessary for Vienna not to be pushed away, because then Austria is moving away, we must be aware of that – that the trans-European networks are being run over Vienna, via Austria. It is our common task in Brussels to give an opinion on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Transport may sometimes cause a lot of noise, but we must be aware that it is important for our economic location, for which we are acting together, for which we are fighting to maintain jobs, to be forced to develop the transport infrastructure. I believe that we are on the right path, and we should not let go of it. Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few more sentences – I am talking to the ÖBB, especially as a railway driver. The board of directors has held a seminar in which Executive Director Draxler has also delivered personal opinions. He can do this for the company ÖBB, but he should not speak for Austrian transport policy. The Minister of Transport is responsible for this. As a railway operator, I have no understanding at all that he believes that he has to force certain projects, but on the other hand that he is advocating certain projects which are absolutely necessary for Austrian transport policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We don't approve of that, ladies and gentlemen. We absolutely want the south railway to be expanded accordingly – this includes not only the Semmering Tunnel, but also the Koralm Tunnel – we also want to force the West Railway. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: By the way, there must also be called the Inntal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because the costs have been raised, I would also like to break a lance for the railways and thank them. They have been involved in the reforms that have been painful since the disfellowshipping process. More than 12,000 jobs were saved at the Austrian Federal Railways. As regards logistics and the classification of labour, railways are currently much more demanding than they did a few years ago. The technicalization has certainly also brought relief, but still thanks to our colleagues from the ÖBB. One thing is to be stressed here: The Austrian Federal Railways are Europe's peak due to their performance and performance. We should therefore also support them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9226	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9248	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As regards transport, the estimated expenditure on transport and telecoms fell by 1.4 billion Schilling in 1999 compared with the previous year to almost 25 billion Schilling. The reduction is mainly based on the absence of the estimate of the remaining investment in the electronic ecopoints system. This is now complete. Last year, substantial amendments to the driving licence and motor vehicle law and road traffic regulations were adopted. The fact is that existing problems are to be solved by means of a new system. The fact is, however, that the amendment and the resulting regulation have difficulties. The proof of the pudding is the eating. That is, a good cook can decide on the ingredients for a dish, but in the end it tastes can only be found by the cost. This principle also applies to the implementation of laws and regulations. In practice, for example, in carrying out the novels mentioned earlier, there have been problems which I believe require a soon-to-date solution: for example, the medical examination for the C driving licence for driving firearms. The firemen are – like the members of the rescue organizations – people who voluntarily do more for our society and do more than they should. In this context, legislative bodies would be tasked with promoting and not inhibiting volunteering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] People of the Voluntary Fire Department need the C-Führerschein only for their efforts in the service of the general public. We are called upon to find a solution. It is my particular concern to express my particular thanks to the volunteers, rescue services, social services et cetera for their efforts for the benefit of our fellow citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another example is the provision in the road traffic regulations concerning the withdrawal of the driver's licence because of on-the-spot travel by an institution of public safety. The withdrawal must take place in the form of a decision. This does not allow immediate withdrawal on-site, since the legal protection of the person concerned would not be guaranteed. There is also a need for action. In principle, we must try in the future to identify such uncertainties in advance and avoid problems in carrying out them. I therefore feel that an increased involvement of practitioners in the legislative process is essential to the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few more words: As a representative of the economy, I have a fundamental concern. In the sense of global competition, initiative is needed, innovative ideas are needed. Self-employment at all levels is necessary. Whether it be at the level of the communities as part of the public sector, whether it be at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector – we need powerful citizens to take responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also means that the spirit of regulation will end in detail areas. Deregulation and administrative simplification must not remain a keyword. The National Council as a legislative body does well to create the necessary conditions for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9320	The next speaker was Mr Hums. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9341	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! 3 minutes speaking time is enough only for keywords. In contrast to Mr Kukacka, I am very pleased that significant resources are being made available for railway development, because this is necessary for the economy of Austria, for the quality of the economic location and for the quality of the environment in Austria. No one's going to dispute that anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kukacka! I can understand your opinion that you should not expand the railway, but just road, only from your family nostalgia. The grandfather of Mr. Kukacka was a railway driver. That is why he apparently wants to keep the railway as it was at the time of his grandfather! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You better watch what I say! They're hard-heard! Yes, yes, the old man!]] But that does not allow us to cope with the economic or environmental situation. It is important that we carry more and more by rail. This has been achieved thanks to the achievements of the railways. There are significant increases in freight transport, from 54 million tonnes to 74 million tonnes in the last ten years alone, i.e. from 1987 to 1997. This development was particularly possible because the ÖBB made total offers. The performance of the railways is an example in Europe. In particular, the performance of the Director-General Draxler should be highlighted in this area, which is safe to criticise in many other areas. One thing to mention is: All of this can only be achieved with the synergies in the company ÖBB. That is why in 1992 – and we want to stay in the future – we have left the Austrian Federal Railways in a company united in infrastructure and sales. And that must remain the same. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not in all There are areas of these successes. Less encouraging is the result in the field of travel. There have been increases here until 1995. Since 1995, the number of travellers has declined. That is why, Minister of State, a request. The reasons for this are, among other things, the change in organisation, which was not customer-oriented especially for passenger transport. Therefore, marketing measures need to be improved, the local staff must not be withdrawn. That's crucial. There have also been many frustrations in the area of the organization. The way in which the changes are made is partly cynical and disdainful. Among other things, the capital of the Austrian Federal Railways is the high motivation of its employees. It must not be lost. That's why I'm asking: There has certainly been some disputed guidance in connection with the pension reform. It is certainly not legally controversial and urgently necessary to recommend to the Supervisory Board – because I do not think it is out of evilness – to organise a seminar for members of the Executive Board with the theme "Modern human governance and customer-oriented organisational reform". Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9397	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9421	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Effective transport policy should and must be coordinated, should be environmentally friendly and, as far as the public sector is concerned, also be manageable and socially balanced. Special children and young people are dependent on public transport. That is why I would like to take the subject of free movement of students and apprentices in my speech. After many years of negotiations, the Minister of Family Dr. Bartenstein and the Minister of Transport Dr. Einm was able to establish the inclusion of pupils and apprentices in the transport associations and thus achieve equality between students and apprentices with the remaining counterparts. Ladies and gentlemen! The new composite solution is expected to take place in two steps. The first offers the following improvements for our students and apprentices: The duration of the weekly tickets is generally extended from Monday to Saturday, students and apprentices can drive on the given route at any rate throughout the day and not only as before just the route from the apartment to the school or to the apprenticeship and back. Furthermore, as early as the school year 1998/99, there will be a payment model as possible, according to which the student and apprenticeship maps will be considered as a network map. From the school year 1999/2000, all pupils and apprentices will receive a combined ticket, and the payment models will be valid – which is very important – for the summer holidays. In a second step, the tariffs for pupils and apprentices are to be equated with those of the other passengers. I also believe that the free choice of transport is essential, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that through the involvement of pupils and apprentices in the transport associations, the quality of transport remains the same and, if necessary, is even improved. The exact distribution of costs still needs to be clarified and the decision taken here in the House is to end a long-term discussion on the free movement of students and apprentices. I think that this solution is acceptable both to the Federal Government and to the transport associations, because the main focus is on the needs and wishes of customers, in this case those of children and young people. To fulfil this is our primary task. A final sentence on the fire brigades: An important requirement in cooperation with the Land Fire Departments is to install an EU-compliant fire brigade licence to ensure security for our voluntary fire brigades in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9473	The next speaker was Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9494	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have put me in a position to make it easy for me or to be able to deal with a main topic a little more difficult. Transport infrastructure to be made available to the railways has already been listed. I welcome the fact that 11 billion schilling is planned in the 1999 budget, which is very welcome. And that by 2005 122 billion Schilling is intended for the expansion of the railway – including Semmering base tunnel – is a fact that we can only welcome especially we Steirer, Kärntner and all the others who are interested in the development of the railway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me just say a few more thoughts about this. We know what difficulties there are due to the different treatment of road and rail, which is evident at Semmering, when you compare how the S 6 was treated under the law of nature and how the Semmering base tunnel. I demand equal treatment! It cannot be that in Lower Austria, after a revision of the Nature Conservation Act, the district headquarters of Neunkirchen can decide where there can be trans-European networks of the railway and where not. My friends! I'm sure it's not allowed to happen. Transport policy should not be allowed to operate the district teams – it should really be left to the politicians. It is easy to understand for me that Mr Fink from the Styria for the construction of the Semmering Tunnel and for the extension of the railway line has become more difficult to understand that Mr Kurzbauer is against it. He brought out an old calaur from Vorarlberg again and said what the Lord God has separated through a mountain, let men not unite. There I am with Mr Fink and say: Let's do that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also recall that there is a unanimous decision of the Steiermärk Landtag for this construction, and it will be very interesting for us how the Styrian colleagues of the FPÖ – I am almost sure about the ÖVP – will behave in this respect, because I have already heard various opinions that do not fit into this quartet. In a newspaper report, Mr Schöggl recently asked the question: What do we need billions? No one's driving over it anyway! So, ladies and gentlemen, it certainly can't go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are, of course, always different views in public opinion. The fact that Mr Schweitzer, after his predecessor, Mr Rosenstingl, has come to him as a transport speaker, enters the same steps and thinks that he has to act against it is his coffee. But if he believes that the South East spange is feasible at the same time as the extension of the South Railway in the existing area, then he is very wrong – quite apart from what this expansion would cost. Alternatives to the Semmering base tunnel have been and will be investigated, but there is actually none. So we keep coming back to the point that we have to say: Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you, together with us, to ensure that the provisions relating to nature conservation and constitutional protection are created as quickly as possible so that this building can be started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9560	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. The same voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9582	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to make a few comments on the section 65 of the 1999 Federal Proposal on Transport and Telekom on the railway infrastructure projects provided for in this chapter. Of course, the estimated 11 billion Schillings, which are made available for rail infrastructure development in 1999 under the 1992 Federal Railway Act, have a large number of positive effects. These investment measures will bring about a significant increase in capacity in rail transport while at the same time ensuring a calmer and less stressful driving of the environment. The importance of the improvements in the railways for our country and the quality of life in our country for the future can be demonstrated by a study by the Österreich Transport Club. According to this study, road freight transport has increased by two and a half times in Europe since 1970; by 2010 Austria forecast an increase in road freight traffic by another 50 percent. The proportion of road freight transport in the transport-related air load due to diesel, soot and nitrogen oxides has already exceeded 50 percent. But not only for the environment will the new rail infrastructure benefit, but also for the users of rail transport. The capacity increase for existing routes, the elimination of slow-off points, the increase in safety, the construction or reconstruction of railway stations, the construction of parking decks, the provision of park-and-ride facilities and the improvement of the platforms can be realized with this infrastructure package. The railway will thus make a quantum leap towards quality and will be able to offer its customers an attractive and convenient alternative to the road transport mode. These infrastructure billions will, of course, have positive effects not only for railway customers, but can clearly also contribute to the employment situation in Austria. Almost 30 000 jobs outside the Austrian Federal Railways are guaranteed by these measures in the coming years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Speed, customer orientation, environmental compatibility and safety are the requirements of time. That is why we must now give the railway a future to enable it to meet future challenges. For all these reasons, I would like you, together with us Social Democrats, to give your consent to the Budget Chapter on Transport and Telekom.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9634	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Wallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9658	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am just as much as the entire Socialist Group for the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, because I know how important this project is for Austria, for the south of Austria, for the possible transport hub in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] I know that this project also has a large European dimension. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said today that it is impossible to solve the structural problems of the Upper Styria alone. That's right. It is also true that some of the structural problems with the construction of the Semmering base tunnel could be improved. I can remind you that there is an ÖROK study, according to which the Obersteiermark is one of the most disadvantaged areas in our country. There are also forecasts that in the coming decades up to minus 30 percent of the resident population and more could leave this region. There is a danger that the upper Irish industrial region will become an old-age home and that many young people will find employment elsewhere. I do not think it can be in the interest of the Republic of Austria not to oppose this development. - That's point one. Secondly, I would like to ask: Why has the Semmering base tunnel still not been realized or under construction? – There are simply selfish party interests in Lower Austria. Mr Pröll wanted, like Mr Altlandes Captain Krainer, who saw the Draken as a threat to Styria, to score cheaply at the last country election in Lower Austria. Unfortunately, he succeeded in doing so. But one thing I would like to say: The rest of Austria will not like this. There must be ways of achieving this project, and I am glad that Mr One of the Heads of State has brought this to a table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to praise the Styrian colleagues who prove to be courageous here. Mrs Landeshauptmann Klasnic is not enough decisive in this matter. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] She's been pulled over the table again! And I would ask you to finally make it clear to your party chairman that he must ensure order in the ÖVP and not oppose a solution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9718	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9739	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wallner, in an unusual way, did not turn his arrows against our group, but instead, where they belong in terms of Semmering base tunnels, in the direction of ÖVP and Mr Pröll. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I was accused by you in the Hellenic manner of being a top Irish Member of the Semmering Base Tunnel. The tunnel would have a great significance for the Upper Steiermark in order to hold this clearly once! If Mr Schweitzer as a Burgenländer has some different views, then you can see the lack of force of clubs and the lack of a consensus which you constantly accuse us of on the part of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When, my reigns, were you ever so anxious about the views of the liberals as at the Semmering Base Tunnel? – The liberals are therefore responsible – as we have heard – for not being built. The liberals are probably also responsible for the water invasion. We are also to blame for the fact that the Federal Minister did not provide private funding. [[Abg. Fink: Mr Grollitsch! You see that right!]] We are probably to blame for keeping the Court of Auditors' report in its desk and not leading it to Parliament from where the order was given. Mr Federal Minister, if there is an obstacle to this construction in addition to Mr Pröll, then it is you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our request provides that the Court of Auditors' report should first be discussed in order to provide a basis for funding, which is agreed upon for us. And this request has been filed at the right time. The Members of this House are therefore right. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] No, Mr Maitz, we're not scratching like this! You will never have heard a different opinion from my mouth. You will not have experienced any other voting behaviour, as you put it to me, by me. For the Obersteiermark, this tunnel would undoubtedly be of great importance in connection with other projects. But it was planned large-scale a top Irish railway node, for the Traidersberg tunnel the drilling machines have already been driven up – then everything was blown off again. There's a retreat fight being prepared. Don't see that wrong, my lords! A retreat fight is being prepared. First of all, we want funding to be on the table. Then you can talk more about this problem. The easy-to-understand attempt to cut off the debt has gone beyond that. Mr. Federal Minister, take charge of your office! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9808	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9829	Mr President. Minister! High house! I was delighted to hear – as has been expressed here by various speakers – that we are drawing a line in the Styria, because it is a very important, important task, whose meaning goes far into the next millennium. There is a common country decision in this regard. That's the one side; that's to be underlined. But then, my dear colleague Wallner – we both come from the same constituency – simply turn the medal around and want to flick Mrs. Klasnic of one thing is very, very transparent. It is very firm and convincing in the course of the Steirs, in accordance with all the political forces in our country, and it certainly does not deserve such treatment from your side, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This project is too important as it is to change the policy of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not just about our country: We Steirer speak with a language, and we also represent the south, the whole southern region. If, therefore, we want to move on and work quickly after the examination, which will take place in a few weeks, then the way must be: together for this great task – and not for the head of the country, not for the sake of the head of state.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9869	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I can ask you to take the seats. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We come to the vote on the consultative group X of the Federal Estimate for 1999. This includes Chapters 14 and 65 of the Federal Proposal, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory estimate, in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part of the Federal Finance Act to give a sign in this regard. – This is adopted by a majority. I would suggest that we vote on the vote at the time of the negotiation of this advisory group. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. First of all, we are voting on the MMag resolution. Dr. Brauneder and comrades on efficiency improvement at the Danube University Krems. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution by Brauneder, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades concerning the new regulations on admission to study foreign Austrians at Austrian universities. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer and comrades on the improvement of railway infrastructure in southeastern Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We have thus completed this advisory group. Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and cultural affairs (including economic compensatory proposal)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e9991	We come to the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI: Education and cultural affairs. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10018	Ladies and gentlemen! Until the ministerial change has taken place, I allow the Green Group to give an answer to the parliamentary question put yesterday, or whenever, regarding the retirement of Mr Schweitzer, for which he has opted for the system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Einm welcomes the Federal Minister Gehrer, who is just taking part in the government bank.]] Since President Fischer is likely to be unable to give real information about this – because it is a matter of data protection – I am allowing myself to officially inform the Greens today from this pult that I have, of course, opted for the new system and entered into a pension contract at the Winterthur insurance. This can also be easily understood by my salary note or by a copy of the contract. I would also like to say this to those who have so misunderstandingdly written it in today's "Kurier" and thus try to give the impression that I have opted for the old system. [[Abg. Auer: Schweitzer! Schweitzer!]] Mr Langthaler, I would suggest that the Green Group corrects in an objective way what it has so "intelligible" launched against the "Kurier". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ministerial change has now taken place. – Mrs Federal Minister, we liberals have made the effort to list all that you have announced you want to do. You have already done a lot of things, but many of what you have announced – and that was a lot of essential things – you have not yet been able to deal with, such as developing a new teacher's guidebook or reforming teacher training. This is the first point I would like to deal with, Mrs Bundesminister. [[Abg. Wabl: Have you entrusted your pension to the Rosenstingl?]] No, I said winterthur insurance. You've heard that already – haven't you? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If we don't even know where he is!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have said that you can imagine a new kind of teacher training. To this day, however, you have left us unclear about what this is supposed to look like. We will make you a proposal that you will be happy to take up and implement. We liberals imagine that only people still need to be admitted to teacher training, such as developing a positive relationship with children and young people. We would therefore like to have a study entrance examination for all teaching candidates. The teacher surplus results from the fact that many of the drop-outs who started a different course of study eventually went to teacher training because they saw no other way. These now practice the teaching profession more painfully than as a vocation. Mrs Bundesminister, we suggest that the location of future teacher training should be educational colleges and that teacher training should be given much more importance overall in providing a repertoire of different forms of work. Teachers should be able to achieve a maximum of work performance and student cooperation through many appropriate forms of work. It should not be so that the teacher imparts knowledge that the student then has to reproduce so that he finally comes to a note. That is why it is not possible, but the students must be motivated to a maximum of work performance and cooperation. Project-oriented teaching must be of central importance in teacher education and training. Teachers must learn how to design projects. The school offers an ideal field – with its environment – for the development and implementation of projects. Teachers should learn how to involve social and economic interests in everyday life, and they should also be able to become the main creator of their own continuing and continuing training. The commitment of every teacher to continuing and continuing education outside the schooling period would be to consider, Mrs. Federal Minister. There should also be a differentiated incentive system with regard to the future composition of the remuneration of teachers. You have already made it seem in the last few days that you are thinking about including the involvement in school education, further education and training in the future remuneration of teachers. That is a very good approach, as I believe. Mrs Bundesminister, however, it would also be to be considered – especially as regards teacher education – whether the monopoly of teacher education should only be left with the PIs. I mean, it would be useful and would be a good competition if the monopoly of the educational institutes could be lifted and part of the teacher's education about the schools would be granted autonomously. A part of the budget for the PIs should be sent to schools in autonomy and thus give them the opportunity to buy teachers' education on the market as well. – I think that might well happen in your considerations. Mrs. Federal Minister, a second area, which you held on 23 March. The training of apprentices is particularly important in April 1996. They said that there was an urgent need for reform. But they have failed to carry out major reforms, and finally we have come to this malaise as regards apprenticeship training and the number of apprenticeships. The German Chancellor's climate was faced when he could not fulfill his promise regarding the apprentices. He has given this promise so loosely – but he has not been able to keep it. And why couldn't he? – Because everything that has been done in this area in recent years in panic reactions has resulted in money being spent with extremely modest successes in large-scale styles. Mrs Bundesminister, I would remind you that premiums have been awarded on labour market services, between 2,700 s per month for a whole year in Burgenland and 4,000 s per month for a whole year in Upper Austria, when a teacher has received an apprentice with so-called partial weaknesses. What does that actually mean? – Nothing other than paying a teacher 2 700 to 4000 S per month for a whole year if he takes up an apprentice who has only limited conditions in terms of schooling and schooling success. Those who have completed schooling better, have actually qualified themselves and have a positive degree of education had to compete for a whole year at 2,700 to 4,000 s. Of course, the teacher’s decision on money and on the better-trained young people has often been taken. – Mrs Federal Minister, it is quite unbearable that such things happen in a state in which the money is already very short! . I hope, Mr Antoni, that your head nicks are consenting to this question. [[Abg. Dr. Antoni nodds.]] It is true that the fact that an unqualified person has been provided by means of high subsidies has led to the fact that qualified persons have remained on the track. That's not normal! It is now necessary to create even more training places for these artificially trained ones and to re-establish billions in the teaching workshops in which foundations are located – with low prospects for success. Our proposal, Mrs Federal Minister: Finally, pay attention to the primary schools, as you did on 31 December. Also announced July 1996! It is best to abolish the polytechnic school and replace it with a professional year in accordance with a proposal from the liberals. Only this successful year of professional invention should be the right for the start of a teaching. Then the teacher knows that he has a qualified young person whom he prefers much better than one with partial weaknesses for which he receives a little money. The principle of performance should also be counted again on this question, Mrs Federal Minister, but the government is prolonging a sinister, inefficient system, only so that the loose promises of the Federal Chancellor can somehow be fulfilled. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this context, it is also noted that the transfer of budget resources to vocational school including labour market services was necessary and you had to save on special courses, which, of course, has rightly led to a lot of criticism. These courses were set up in accordance with the "lifelong learning" principle at the time, but many reintegrations are now no longer possible because these courses had to be removed as a result of financial redeployments. Mrs. Federal Minister! In connection with the current salary discussion, I would be particularly interested in a question, namely the § 61 Wage Act. I think that's what I think – if I'm wrong, you'll clear me up! - Same and the same. Now the same – that is, all federal and regional teachers – are to be paid according to what they do. It's all right! The implementation will probably bring with it all kinds of bureaucracy, but that is quite all right. There are no implementing rules, there are only case studies, I have heard. All get thick packages with case examples, and then you have to figure out the specific case of how to calculate the wage. This will, however, be a huge and laborious effort, Mrs Bundesminister, but you will do it! So that's the same thing. And now, Mrs. Federal Minister, we have the same ones, and these equal ones, these are the personnel representatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] They will continue to receive the additional services. Is that right? [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You should say something about this too!]] Yes, I am outside, and I would have liked to have heard the opinion of the Federal Minister. Staff representatives continue to receive the additional services on a flat-rate basis. This should be done in accordance with the § 25 Staff Representatives Act. The staff representative, if he or she is within it, may not have a disadvantage due to his activity. That is quite the opposite! And it was the colleague Schaffenrath – I do not want to say that – who once listed what the colleague Scale deserves under these provisions. Mrs. Federal Minister! Then it is time for these legal provisions to be removed from the fact that these legal provisions are being amended. It is now clear why the staff representatives who knew during the negotiations that they will not suffer any disadvantages have negotiated with you quite easily. But that would be, as I think, a great deal of injustice, Mrs Federal Minister, and I hope that you will tell us today how you intend to do so. Finally, because he is next on the list of speakers, I have one more question to Mr Höchtl. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Yes, please!]] How is it possible for ÖVP Chairman in Vienna, Görg, with the active assistance of the Federal Minister Gehrer to torpede core areas of the ÖVP education policy – there is a request to establish the overall school here in Vienna in the districts 22 and 23 together by ÖVP and SPÖ – Mr. Höchtl? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's still there?]] With the agreement of the ÖVP! They'll explain why.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10161	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. Time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10182	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What one can say about the quality or credibility of Mr Schweitzer's statements or statements on education policy is an example. Mr Schweitzer came to the speaker's desk here and said – I took note of that; that was his first claim –: The Federal Minister has promised that a teacher's guide will be developed, and she has not done so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Either he didn't want to do it, or he did sleep it, or he didn't register it at all because he didn't pursue education policy. [[Abg. Swimmling: He has to pursue something else!]] A few weeks ago, this teacher's guide was presented in the Ministry of Education by the Federal Minister of Education, together with the head of compulsory school teachers, the colleague Helm. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ÖGB!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: From ÖGB!]] That's the truth! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is an ÖGB brochure!]] That is, your credibility, you can see what you can think of your claims. This must also be noted here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What about the entire school in the 22nd century? District?]] I will not use my entire speaking time to deal with all the statements made by Mr Schweitzer. Because one thing is clear: The Federal Minister has announced many things each, and their commitment and interest is due to the fact that these announcements are being implemented step by step. That's what she says. This has proved to be the case in recent years, and this will be the case in the coming years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: General school in the 22nd century. District!]] I'm going to comment on this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer! It is important to see in which direction our education system is developing. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: To the whole school with the SPÖ!]] I'm sure not. We are increasingly in a situation of international competition, in which we are particularly required as an educational politician. We must be interested in providing young people with the best possible training and education, so that they can find a job, an attractive job even in the future and also under increased international competition conditions. That is to say, the desire of young people for a job means to us education politicians the obligation to establish the best possible framework conditions in our education system. I therefore believe that the challenge at all is that we should see location security as a task, and one aspect of this is the highest level of qualification for our young people. And this is how we make improvements in the specific areas of our education system. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that the two government parties have succeeded in achieving one year's worth of the following: The highest percentage increase in all ministries will be recorded by the Ministry of Education in the coming year 1999. This is an excellent success of the Federal Minister, whom she was able to achieve through the support of our coalition partners and the People's Party. [[Call the FPÖ:Halleluja!]] I believe that this is a commitment to the importance of education policy, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] 4.63 percent correspond to an increase of 69.4 billion schilling to 72.7 billion schilling. That's not a crack. This is an enormous increase in all the conditions imposed on budgetary policy, which simply corresponds to this basic concern, to provide education policy with the best possible form of opportunities, including in financial terms. Let me bring a few elements that signal this increase in quality: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has always been noted by representatives of various political groups that it is a quality feature in education policy that we should strive to improve the ratio of the number of pupils who fall within the scope of a teacher. If I consider only the last ten years, I must say that we have been able to improve a considerable relationship in the international comparison anyway. In the last ten years, it has been possible to get down to 7.8 in primary schools – on average, 7.8 pupils come to a teacher – in the AHS to 9.4 and in the secondary and higher schools to 8.6. I think that's quality improvement! All that is to be criticized can, of course, be placed, but in such figures it can be seen that continuous efforts are also achievable. I think this is proof that the high quality of education policy could really be continued in these years. It is proof that we take our promises seriously and realize them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What are the main points at present? What are the priorities of the budget? . We are currently talking about how we can develop foreign language competence in particular. We say that it must be possible that a living foreign language will be actively learned from the very first stage of the school, because international competitiveness means, among other things, that the individual young person can really express himself in living foreign languages. I believe that this is an essential development that could be achieved in this way. Or: In recent years, we have repeatedly heard the demand that it should be developed in addition to the basic capabilities, e.g. reading, writing, computing, an additional competence in the field of computer science. And the Federal Minister has ensured the resources necessary to ensure that by the year 2000 there is the possibility in all schools of having this communications network available to the public in order to give young people the opportunity to acquire this essential new competence in time for the coming millennium. Or gift promotions. We need to see that we discover every present gift of young people, discover them in good time, and then promote them. I believe that many of the measures taken jointly by the two government parties have also been taken here in the Ministry of Education. We are even trying to give the individual maximum gift the opportunity, in the beginning, to skip a class in addition to the chance, as in the past in the lower level, and the already realized possibility in the upper level, to complete an additional year early in the primary education sector, i.e. to skip a class. That is, theoretically it could be that someone 15 years old is already making the Matura if he really has a high, a high gift. This will certainly only rarely be the case, but every opportunity will also be enshrined by us by law in order to bring about any form of gift, including the highest talent, of a realization. Promotion of talent, new development of competence, fixed work on curriculum development – this, ladies and gentlemen, are things we are striving for and of which we are not only talking about, or which the Federal Minister of Education announces, but which we also realize, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (keeping a brochure in height) Is that it? Is that the teacher's guide?]] This is a policy that is credible. That what you announce is not credible, I have proved in the first case. That's what I said here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is this the teacher's guide?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have done our utmost to speak only a few minutes, let me conclude. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: At the total school in the 22nd century. District!]] We confess to quality and not to levelling. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: With the entire school!]] We are committed to diversity and not to stew, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is there this request?]] With us, there is not this form of potting. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is there this request with the consent of the ÖVP?]] School tests are available in all possible areas, there are also school attempts in Vienna, but the inpot is not the form by which qualitative education policy can be made throughout the country. [[Abg. May. ==References== District!]] That's why you're insured! That's what the People's Party stands for! That's a fix! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The majority of the population is satisfied with what we are doing in schools, in education policy – and I can tell you that, as a whole, it is more than two thirds of all Austrians who believe: Yes, what is done in schools is something that is fully in our view. I believe that if such a high level of approval, namely an assessment with "very good" for the quality of our education policy, we can, therefore, both government parties, be proud of this quality. We say a yes to this education policy, we say a yes to this increased, improved budget approach, because we believe that we will create the basis for young people to receive the best possible training in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10448	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10473	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl has claimed that, contrary to what I said before, the Federal Minister has already drawn up a teacher's guide. [[Abg. My friend, after what?]] [[Abg. Friend: Lauter!]] The fact is that Mrs Bundesminister did not draw up a teacher's guide, but rather that the teacher's guide was one that was drawn up by the Public Service Union and presented to the public together with Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerin. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here! That's what confuses the Höchtl!]] There is still a certain difference between working and presenting, Mr Höchtl. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] Let's stick to the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10553	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10589	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer, I do not agree with you everywhere when it comes to education policy, but whether Mr Höchtl should actually allow himself to question your competence, let me put it. And, of course, you are right when it comes to drawing up the teacher's guide. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Preisinger and Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] The information deficit seems to be in the hands of Mr Höchtl. As Mr Höchtl here stated in his remarks how significant it would be to what direction our education system is developing, I must unfortunately tell him that our education system is not at all moving, that it cannot go in a certain direction, because it is not only through the two-thirds legislative matter, but in particular through this – I want to say – ideological self-tiring trick of ÖVP and SPÖ, in fact, it has long been rigid. I must once again doubt the competence of Mr Höchtl here if he actually believes that the teacher-student ratio is a real quality feature for our school. As an educational speaker of this party, he would at least have to know how such teacher-student relationships come about. Mr Höchtl, you should know what reality looks like, in particular, in vocational schools: 36 students in the classes as a regular case, 30 pupils also in the third and fourth classes, because because of the limitation of the units of values classes must be grouped together. Mr Höchtl! I would have liked you to show more insider knowledge instead of giving any praises of yours. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But reality is different!]] Mr Schweitzer. You have referred to teacher and teacher training here, and I give you the right in those areas where you require an improvement in terms of content. However, I do not give you the right if you so to speak ask for entrance examinations for future teachers because there is no momentary examination with which you can determine the skills you consider necessary for the assessment of the qualifications of teachers or teachers. They have my support when it comes to teacher training in the free time, which is mandatory. I think your idea of lifting the monopoly of PIs makes sense and for a big step in the area of financial autonomy of schools when the schools actually came to be a budget. For apprenticeship training, I must find one thing: It is really not fair to put the whole problem of the apprentices' miscarriage in the shoes of the Minister of Education. Here is an economic minister, here are the social partners, and here also the Minister for Social Affairs is to take responsibility. One thing, however, is: The Minister for Education is responsible for vocational education and training. There I really miss further developments. I also miss an improvement in teacher and teacher education in vocational education. There we have the shortest training, and precisely these teachers have a very difficult task to perform. I also miss a further development of vocational schools as a whole towards vocational training centres, because I believe that our vocational schools in many areas in particular have structural conditions to make active contributions to continuing training and thus to establish lifelong learning at vocational schools. This would then make many double and triple investments in the educational institutions of the social partners necessary. As far as staff representatives and overtime fixations are concerned, Mr Schweitzer, I have to say – I have already commented on it through an interlocutory call – that: I am already glad that you have finally noticed this too. We have already spoken out to the public a number of times – by the way also the Minister of Education. It has said that this Staff Representatives Act does not even want to comment on it. I take this statement from the positive fact that it also sees a gross maladministration in this regard. The Liberals will, in any case, make a request to remedy this situation. It can't be that way. In my opinion, the main motivation of the teachers' union, which has fueled the discussion about the salary law, was that it was often about bringing their own sheep into the dry. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Now to the budget as a whole. – Mr Höchtl has once again described this increase in the budget as a special step forward. This morning I read in Teletext that the Ministry of Education was the only ministry with more budget. I have to say once again that should... Good. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: With the largest percentage increase rate!]] Good. In any case, this emphasis should give the impression that education in Austria now has a higher priority and that this increase would help to improve the quality of education. I think, Mr Höchtl, that the government parties did not trust themselves again – and that is right! – to introduce such measures as the savings package 1 and 2. With the agreement of the trade union, please, only those savings measures were taken which should help to finance the hardly any more eligible biennial jumps to which we hold firmly. The fact that this has led to a significant deterioration in the educational conditions in our schools, we do not need to discuss this at all. That's obvious. The current budget expansion is also primarily intended to cover biennial jumps. We have an extension in the administrative sector – the Ministry of Education receives 250 million more – and we have an extension in the administrative area to the secondary school authorities, to the national school councils. For me, it is particularly curious that the overtime charges for the national school inspectors are also rising, which are proven to be in employment at different schools and are, as it were, blocked during the time when they should work, to comply with their supervisory duty. The overall overtime has, of course, been raised to a level where they have already been before they have been tried to lower this level in order to provide a job for the many unemployed teachers. In any case, this budget increase does not increase any units of value, nor decrease in the number of students in classes, nor increase the offer. That means that we no longer have quality of education, and neither do we have better education for young people. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But this is a remarkable improvement!]] Where's the improvement? Is it that the conditions are not worsened? Mr Höchtl! You can't answer that any more! Now on Mrs Minister's announcements. I do not want to list them all at all now, but I just take one example out because it is really very symptomatic: these 99 points on the promotion of girls and women, this action plan 2000. That was, as I think, perhaps presented by the Federal Minister of the Interior at the time for media enforcement in the context of women's-people's desire at a time that is very unusual in this House. For the implementation of this Action Plan 2000 – 99 very important points, the Minister, which has, at least, given my question, has a budget of 1.6 million Schilling. This does not allow for a comprehensive implementation of these points at all. Somebody's supposed to explain this to me. If one is serious about this implementation, then the schools need appropriate conditions. However, there is no preparedness to create appropriate framework conditions. Mrs. Minister! Ms. Director Heidemarie Schrodt from Rahlgasse asked you to approve her for one hour without any additional cost burden for a girl-friendly preparation of the natural sciences. That's what she put in the budget of her units, and it's been disdained by you. However, this is only one aspect of the seriousness of the Minister's announcements and possible implementations here. Also a contribution to the current discussion about § 61 Wohnsgesetz. Mrs Minister, you have my support for these paragraphs. You have not only my support, you also have the support of many dedicated colleagues who see the need for only actual hours to be paid. Of course, the trade union has just provoked a public discussion, I would like to say that it is precisely – Mr Schweitzer has mentioned it – that it has brought its sheep into the dry, and the trade union has not done a good job for the teacher. It has once again left the teachership and, in particular, the dedicated colleagues there as privileged drivers. She has further damaged the image of the teachership. Mrs. Minister! You, like me and all the other education speakers, have received shocks from letters from colleagues and colleagues. In many of these letters, teachers draw attention to very different problems they have at schools that actually go far beyond this overtime arrangement. They feel left alone with the new difficulties, with the new tasks assigned to them by society. In this context, an essential approach would be to improve teacher and teacher education and training. Of course, you have problems with the worse educational conditions that have been included in the schools through savings packages 1 and 2. One thing is true, of course, Mrs. Minister: You should have known that after decades of missing pay policy, you will have to face a real reduction in salary, because teachers consider these overtimes to be a regular part of their salary, because colleagues and colleagues have been recruited by these overtimes for school, especially in the HTL area, but also in the vocational education sector, especially by those involved. You should have known that it is, of course, depressing for committed colleagues who might even have deserved these flat-rate overtimes if they now have to expect pay cuts. The worst thing I personally think about it is that in an unannounceable system, in a pragmatic system, there is a danger that the people will, as it were, cancel inwardly, and at least the students will have to do so at our schools. Mrs. Minister! They have now announced – at least in the media – a new reward system and said that a budget would be available to schools at least from the year 2000. I would like to refer once again to what Mr Schweitzer said. If you want a performance-oriented reward system in any form, and we support you, then the basis for this is a clear job description. Then it is up to the top employer of teachers to define a very clear requirement profile. You said in the press that this isn't going on from today to tomorrow. You should think about that again. You should fix this failure as soon as possible. I suppose you too have read the letters that all of us have received. When I read these letters, I am shocked at what differing views there are within my colleagueship, which is now the task of a teacher or a teacher. I don't want to evaluate this at all. As Members of this House complain that the early warning system with the increased advisory activity would be an unpaid voluntary activity to copy material, make films, prepare schoolwork a voluntary, unpaid activity, that participation in the school community would be a voluntary, unpaid activity. I don't judge that. But, on the other hand, there are enough colleagues – and they have my support – who bring quite constructive proposals, which I consider to be quite understandable, that a Euro project, a country-wide project cannot be one of the standard achievements of a teacher, and that, in particular, those colleagues who are so concerned with computer science, with new software, with the enrollment of colleagues, with which units of values now available to them cannot be achieved. In this case, an extra payment would be desirable. Only then, if we have clear requirements, Mrs. Minister – and I hope we have her quickly – can we talk about a reward system, only if we also have a functioning school supervision, if we have a school supervision that ensures when standard services, basic benefits of a teacher, a teacher are actually provided. Mrs. Minister! The type-of-visit visits of national school inspectors who are not yet as frequent as they should be, because these inspectors are pursuing other jobs during the day, will probably not be able to see this performance. There is a need for a comprehensive reform. Another point, Mr Schweitzer – even if you were not considered competent by Mr Höchtl – is where I have to give you the right. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: On this question!]] In the past, Mrs Minister has talked a lot about new methods and new content. Mr Höchtl! You said: How great, we will have a PC and access to the Internet within the next few years at every school! Mr Höchtl, you know that we have an elderly teacher who has been trained in media didactics to go there, how to erase tablets, because that was the only teaching medium. [[Rejoicing]] If we do not have a competent teachership, then we do have PCs and Internet access, but then new media will not become a natural part of the teaching and then we also need to rely on early competence among students. This may have to start in folk school, when you get to know keyboards. Only by installing equipment alone, Mr Höchtl, have you not yet done a good job for the school as far as the new media is concerned. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another point, Mr Höchtl: I was with Mrs Minister at an HTL, one of the biggest here in Vienna, and there young people complain that they are being removed from the IT education, that the offer is restricted. And what made me particularly concerned: These are 16-, 17-year-olds who have 39 hours of teaching, and they ask for more education, Mr Höchtl, more hours because they want a broader offer because they want IT because they want political education! This is an alarm signal for me, because it shows me that new forms of learning and new methods have not yet taken effect in our schools, that many of our teachers do not yet know what that means: to teach exemplaryly, because they cannot analyze a curriculum, because they may have forgotten it or are not up-to-date, and because it is a very difficult task. As long as this cannot be done by the colleagueship and we do not place any emphasis here in education and training, students will still feel that they must be able to find all the facts externally and that learning means saying something externally. They are really in a bad situation, and they feel that way. Practice, use, real learning and processing have no place in many schools. I understood the cry for help of these young people who said: We want more hours, we want to practice at school with the help of a teacher! Another point – I see, my speaking time is, unfortunately, scarce; it is already flashing. Mrs. Minister! In conclusion, perhaps just one more request: Leave Please don't get the life-long learning to be the key word! We now have a working group that has been working on adult education for some time, and the results are unfortunately outstanding. I know that lifelong learning also requires changes in initial training. I know it costs money, too. But let's think about new structures. Mr Schweitzer. I am not in your opinion at all – and not that of Mr Höchtl. Mr Höchtl! If pedagogical reasons do not speak for a common school in the case of internal differentiation, if you do not already want to acknowledge that the "in pot school" you are talking about today in the inner districts of Vienna, when 80, 90 percent go to the AHS – or do you think that the intellectual group of Austrian society is gathering in the inner districts of Vienna?; we have this "in pot school" and there is no differentiation, there the children are treated like a lawn mower – then at least financial arguments should find an open ear. We all know how expensive this two-track school system is, how expensive two different bureaucratic structures are, how expensive a two-track teacher training is. Perhaps that would at least be an argument for you, but to think again. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! This budget actually continues numbers, increases are where they were not preventable. If education policy is rewritten to the same extent, we will not be able to guarantee young people the education they need in order to be able to exist in a society so rapidly changing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10696	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10718	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is, of course, in the nature of the fact that government parties and opposition parties, whom we very much appreciate, have different approaches to these things and that things also differ. Mr Schweitzer! Only one sentence – we have so little time to speak that I really want to do it very briefly. I would strongly oppose it if the Ministry of Education said: Teacher, so, from point 1 to point 362, has lessons to take place! I am a Social Democratic, I am of the heart democratic and I am absolutely in favour of the fact that outlines, job descriptions are only consensual, to be done together with those concerned. Otherwise, I would, in principle, reject that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Schaffenrath! As bad as you do school, as bad as you do the teachers, the school supervisors with all that the inspectors do so next door, it is indeed not. I really have a different view. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: But bad already! Maybe not so bad!]] But back to what I was up to. It has already been said that in 1996 there were only 1.3 percent growth, in 1997 only 0.14 percent. Thus, the Savingstift has a little "kneabbert" in the educational areas. However, I believe that now, with the 1998 budgets we have already decided, and in 1999, once plus 3.5 and once, as we have heard, plus 4.6, a clear signal has been sent. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What for? – For biennial jumps!]] The public hand takes its mission to be a guard for education for young people seriously. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: What is the money for? For biennials?]] Yeah, I'll be right there. Mrs Schaffenrath! Now I also tell you that in 1996 and 1997, despite the tense situation, we carried out a dynamic development of our education system. Just a few memories: Integration, autonomy, student participation, professional maturity examination, vocational orientation and extension of the tasks of vocational schools. We have internationally excellent values, Mrs Schaffenrath! Our education system is moving! It's not like we're standing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] But I am absolutely right to all those who have said before me that the future will present permanent challenges to our education system. It has already been said: The rapid development in the economic field, social change, job changes and the question of electronics, high-technology are to be addressed as challenges. I believe, therefore, that the education sector should continue to be given an extremely high priority – in the interests of young people, in the interests of all those involved in education. Schooling, vocational training, continuing adult education and training in the sense of understanding lifelong learning are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Education is the future! Therefore, we assume that: The right to education is to ensure equal opportunities, as good as possible, and wherever we see and recognize educational barriers, they must be reduced. We need even more democratization in our school, even greater flexibility to overcome rigid structures, of course increased foreign language offensive in conjunction with quality assurance and much more. I am therefore pleased when I – Mr Höchtl has already mentioned it – can say that we will take important steps before the summer towards further development of our school life. There is a flexibilization, a redesign of the school entrance area. The beginning of the school is to be more child-friendly, even more oriented to the child's abilities and requirements, and, as has been said, there will be a foreign language offensive – integrative and with the aim of already starting from 1st century onwards. School level one... – I don't want to deal with such things, for that the thing is worth too much to me. [[Abg. Oillinger: But please don't go back to another initiative that goes into pants!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Why clean again?]] I would also like to say that you, the Minister of Education, have informed the Committee on Budgets that there is a further provision of our schools with electronic media. This is a matter of course to be supported. I also believe that the announcement that the school libraries should be developed into modern teaching and learning centres is an absolutely right step. I mean, the school is developing, it is a learning institution, and it would be nice to have some things that Mrs Schaffenrath has mentioned and which I am quite prepared to carry tomorrow. But that's not how it works, because we can't afford it in this way. However, I would also like to point out the following: Special efforts, special flexibility and creativity will be needed to meet the enormous challenges of the National Action Plan's employment measures. We have already discussed this: Master's degree for people who have failed to do so; the prohibition of replication is to be considered; Apprenticeships, apprenticeships, vocational courses et cetera. To implement all of this will require great effort. I hope we're gonna make it. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me also make a few comments on the problem of teacher service rights and teacher remuneration, which is already coming to the conclusion: I think the discussion over the last few weeks on these issues is problematic, partly counterproductive. We do not necessarily need confrontation in education policy, we need meaningful and constructive cooperation from both sides! Let us, please, not accuse the teachers of their supposed right of service and remuneration! We – the National Council – have been the ones who have decided to do so. You shouldn't forget that. Let us not allow ourselves to continue to make personal outrages! There and there there are teachers' hatts; there are flat-rate suspicions. I'm not ready to play with it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we take the development of the school seriously, if we want to implement all that is said at the speaker's desk, then we will need motivated and committed teachers, then we will need teachers who are willing to go the reform paths with us and take the modernisation steps. I have also received hundreds of letters in the last few weeks – with resolutions, with statements of special activities and with a wide range of information – which have probably been given to everyone sitting in the teaching committee. I therefore think I can already appeal: The necessary corrections must be made, but they must be undertaken in close cooperation with the teachers' representatives, with the teachers' unions and with high sensitivity. If I read in the media today, Mrs Minister has undertaken to continue to discuss and develop the subject in an "inconsistency" and very objectively, then I believe that there is also a solution to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10834	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e10856	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been mentioned a number of times now that all members of the Committee on Education – I suppose – have been successful in the last few days and weeks, so it could almost be said that it was not quite, but it was to a very high extent – letters and resolutions from the various service committees that had a common tenor, namely that what was done in the multi-service schemes had nothing to do with reality in schools. Now, of course, we can go here and ignore that, as has been done in recent weeks and months, not only by the Federal Minister, but also by the trade union. For months one has ignored that! In principle, for months, we have been involved in the last budget, until we had to recognize the representatives of the trade unions: The mood at the base is a bit different. Now, of course, you can deal with it in such a way – even in the future – that you say: There we will add the computer kiss or the one hour or that, and there we will add a little screw and change a little screw there. – But that’s the completely wrong concept. So far I have not heard of you, ladies and gentlemen, an approach, except for the glorious reference made by Mr Höchtl to the Teachers' Guide, how to deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's a complete cash, what you're saying now!]] Mr Höchtl! The Teacher's Guide is a pitiful matter, an absolutely pitiful matter. One can only be glad that the Federal Minister is not himself responsible for this because it is so weak that one can only be angry that the Federal Minister has made a subsidy for it. It's annoyed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] That it is the private hobby of Mr. Helm – by the way also one of the multi-earners among the teachers' union officials – who believed that he could build a light is another thing again. But I can tell you, the teacher's guide describes everything and says nothing, and that's actually tragic. Of course, it would be right for the Federal Minister – certainly in cooperation with the trade unions – to think about how one actually comes up with another model of working time for teachers. This other working time model should be a real-time model – a real-time model! I fear, therefore, that it will not be operated by the teachers' union or by the woman's minister, that most teachers under the rule would not be able to pay less, but more. But this debate is not going to happen, some of the officials – I would say that – are not because they would be the real-time payers. Let us talk openly about – and this has already been mentioned today – the units of value given to the staff representatives, to the trade union representatives. I am very much in favour of the fact that trade union representatives can and can also be paid. But what is coming into the media over the last few months and years in the field of individual teachers and top-ranking officials – whether Mr Helm or Mr Spiesmeier is, or what I know who – is not pleasing. This has nothing more to do with representation if a Gage can be collected as a director and overtime and at the same time other charges, as has been confirmed by Mr Helm in recent years, by questions. Perhaps Mr Helm has now speculated a bit of overtime and overtime, but I can still remember times when Mr Helm was among the most paid officials. There were also some here in the house. I can understand that this is not the case with the debate on real-time models. But it is the challenge of the coming years, because one thing I am saying to you, Mrs Minister, is that, with the existing model of time calculation for teachers, we have in principle the model of a completely deregulated working time scheme. This has nothing to do with actual working time, which is defined in existing working time models. That doesn't mean anything. This is also the tenor of the letters from the Service Meetings, how much advisory activity, how much supervision, how much cooperation and communication is done outside and inside by teachers. There are, of course, also practiced models that try to describe and capture this. It would be a wonderful opportunity to make the reality of what you are always talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: giving more autonomy to schools. This was also meant to separate itself from this timetable, i.e. to separate from all that forms the ballast of the existing school schools. I very much support the development of annual working time models for teachers, which are being developed in a serious way. Mr Höchtl! One should not divert with a teacher's guide, which does not have to do with it in the least, but should suggest to everyone: The teacher is a being that is there for everything and is somehow fitted with a sham. – This has nothing to do with an actual working time model. The hourly tables, the value units, the conversion figures and tables are the benchmark for past teacher activities, but not a requirement for a school policy of tomorrow. If I look at how we in this House in recent years are making the most of what teachers have to do in schools – whether they are drug prevention or any other preventive measures – and at the same time, with this debate on multi-service regulations, the school climate – I am already measuring the letters – has become sensitively disturbed and joined together, then I can only tell you: We benefit from all the resolutions with which teachers and schools are assigned, where they are not to take action everywhere, nothing at all, if it is not possible to re-establish and create a school climate that actually sets in motion again, creates motivations and reform steps. With the school climate, which is currently in the schools, you can't reach this, Mrs. Minister! There you – certainly not undivided hands; with others in common – also have the responsibility with this debate to attribute to the multi-service scheme. I come to another point raised by Mr Höchtl. I almost expected it after the Minister of Education in the Committee had read these tables on the relationship between teachers and pupils – these wonderful figures from 1986 to 1996. I almost expected it. Mr Höchtl! I would like to have the basis of calculation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] Of course, the number of teachers has increased, but it has only increased because the number of part-time workers has increased among teachers. As far as I know, you cannot even calculate the number of part-time workers in such a way as to give rise to the number of full-time workers, i.e. real employment. I therefore read to you other numbers that describe the relationship between teachers and students somewhat more precisely than what you are trying to prove in this rough average bill. Because you pretend to be sitting in school classes, depending on school type, only eight or nine students. This does not in any way correspond to the reality experienced by the students, the teachers and also the parents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] I read to you the figures – these are also figures from the Federal Ministry – and these numbers speak another language: In 1986 we had 18.7 pupils per class at the elementary schools. In 1996/97 we have 19.7. The number of pupils per class increases. In the primary schools there were 22 students in 1986/87, 23.2 in 1996/97. In the general education schools at upper secondary level, there were 21.5 in 1991, 22.6 in 1996/97. Even more serious – even that was said in Replica on your remarks, Mr Höchtl – is the situation in middle and higher schools. If you can still answer and represent this – good night, Mr Höchtl! – then you have agreed on education policy. But this is obviously also one of your stated objectives, to act as a beautiful speaker rather than as an educational politician. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only is it about the number of students in the classes rising, but it is also about others, for example – that has already been mentioned – about the foreign language offensive. It will again announce the third, fourth foreign language offensive that will guide you. Where's the offensive going? I'll count you: Shortening of hours means reducing the living foreign language English. The change in the divisional numbers or the non-compliance with the class division means a fall in the quality of teaching, also in foreign language teaching. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Especially at your address, since – I assume – you can reach corresponding letters in recent years and months again and again: We're talking about Europe's maturity. Mr Höchtl has also led her back in her mouth. You know as well as I do that for a job within the EU, within one of the authorities of the European Union, knowledge of at least two living foreign languages is essential. The best way to do this is if you can get three living foreign languages. Mrs. Federal Minister! Tell me a school type in Austria where you can learn three living foreign languages. Call me a school guy! He doesn't exist. But we are talking about Europe's maturity. There is no type of school in which you usually teach... – I am not talking about compulsory subjects. [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: But of course we have him, of course! That's part of it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I would like to have this in regular schooling, Mrs Brinek! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like you to finally take seriously what you lead as a foreign language offensive. This means not only, but also in the public schools – with all the difficulties that this means, because the teachers have not been sufficiently trained; the dilemma is already starting – foreign languages. But please, if you are talking about Europe's maturity and the offensive for this Europe, you can at least create a school type in the regular school attempt, where there is a third living foreign language! [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: Freedom of choice! Freedom of choice!]] But instead, it is still important to you that you maintain Latin or Greek in regular education. I myself have learned Latin and Greek and can only tell you: [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Look what's become of you!]] I am ready to discuss Latin. But Latin could also be made in the constituency field, I would say, and instead a third living foreign language should be anchored in regular teaching. Because if you take seriously what you say and stress over and over again, at least for a limited group of students, the third living foreign language is not only an ever-increasing desire, but also a requirement to be able to exist in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more point, since we have already seen a germination of the debate on the single-pot school. As an example, mathematics has been cited, in particular the study by the American Institute of TIMSS, which has proved that our students can be found at the bottom of the international comparison as regards mathematics teaching at secondary level II. Mr Höchtl! I made the effort to look at this study. Do you know what you're discovering, Mr. Höchtl? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl is busy reading and does not answer.]] – You have different things to do. I can tell the other colleagues: It is discovered that those countries that do not have a structured school system in the area of secondary education, such as Sweden, are at the forefront. The problem is that in the field of science, which was the subject of this American study, we have excellent qualifications in the public schools. We also have good qualifications in the field of secondary education, where we have also been awarded a top priority. But in the area of secondary education, it's going down. I say that this is not the consequence of the teaching done on the gymnasiums. Rather, the other countries do not have the problem we have in Austria: that apples must be compared with pears from the level of secondary education. That's the problem! In the other countries there is no divisional education, and that is why Sweden, for example, comes to its excellent qualifications. In Austria, on the other hand, vocational schools are being manned into secondary school as well as all other types of schools, which are still available in secondary education, and this, on the average, is of course a bad result. But we can also draw conclusions from this, for example, that a school system that is not so hierarchical as Austria is in the field of secondary level II, can achieve much better results than the Austrian system, although it is well-performance and comparative in the field of secondary and primary education. [[Abg. Young: How do you explain that the German language school in Stockholm regularly has best reviews?]] You must refer to the study, Mr. Jung! It's not just a school. As part of this study, many schools from the respective countries have been compared, not only by one type of school, that is, not only the gymnasium, but several, different schools. But in the countries where there are no different types of school in the area of secondary education, it is surprising that the best results have been found. Mr Höchtl, you should also be interested in this, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Do you happen to know the Max Planck study, which took a devastating judgment on the one-pot school?]] A point that is not uninteresting, since now almost already at every school, in every gym a poster or advertising of McDonald’s, Sprite, Coca Cola or Fanta depends, after advertising in the schools has kept in a sort of way, as if everyday life and reality in schools should and should be that way. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would have liked to be told by you what you say about the proposal from the Commission of the European Union to restrict advertising to schools. I think this is a reasonable concern. There is a proposal from the EU Commission to restrict advertising to schools. In my opinion, this is a profoundly reasonable concern. Clearly, the proposal deals with areas which have already become self-evident among us, about sponsorship and also about aggressive advertising, which actually takes place in the field of schools and which paradoxically conflict with teaching principles which are to be lived and taught at the same schools. One could find out within several hours that the EU Commission is obviously a step further in this area. I am interested in the position you represent. A last comment on integration. Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that this is not very pleasant for you, but I would like to point out to you that we now have a 10th in connection with the National Employment Plan. Introduce school year for those who otherwise have no chance in the field of vocational training, but of this 10th year. It is clear that school year again all those who previously had no or less chance, namely the disabled, should be excluded. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have had a debate on this before, and sometimes it seems to me that we are on the path of a limited agreement. Since you last explained in a "standard" interview that it doesn't come into the bag at all for you, a 10. To enable school year in the field of integration, I'm interested in how you stand and whether you're actually on No to 10. School year for disabled children and for poor children, including as part of the measures to be put in place in the NAP.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11009	Mr Morak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11030	Mr President. Minister! My few leftovers! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] I can understand. – A few words about the Federal Law on the Status, Establishment, Organisation and Conservation of the Federal Museums, in short called the Federal Museum Law. I believe that the system of scientific institutions is tailored for our museums. We were able to convince ourselves of the acceptance among the various directors in a committee within the framework of a hearing. There has been only one position which has rejected this draft; this Director has pleaded for the maintenance of the status quo. There was agreement with the other interested parties. There is a fundamental misunderstanding in connection with our museums. The intention was never to carry out a distribution in the sense of social law, as museums have never been concerned with profit-making in an economic sense. However, this is immanent in any private law solution. It is only about presenting collectibles in attractive form. This certainly means that profits can be achieved and can also be achieved within the framework of one or other exhibition. But a large, essential area of the museums is dedicated to research and collection, and so that it is maintained, I think the chosen form of society is the right one. In addition, as far as the scientific work of the museums is concerned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided us with an opportunity to monitor efficiency. In my opinion, there is a very appropriate form of organisation with the scientific institution. It enables economic governance, and political responsibility is clearly assigned. This is a point that has been very often demanded in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11072	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11094	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Chapter 12 includes incredible 72.7 billion schilling. Mrs Minister, this is a lot of money! There is an increase – this has already been addressed today – of 3.2 billion schilling or 4.63 percent. Minister! I am convinced, however, that this increase was not to be achieved solely because it was about the good of the students, but you have been assigned a special task by the government. You have to park thousands of young people who have been looking for a place or a job in the schools in vain. That's worth a batch of money to the government. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That is why this increase in the budget, which Mr Höchtl has been so delighted, has been achieved. But does more money automatically mean improving quality? – It is constantly spoken of, but practice and media also reflect other things: "Required, therefore without self-esteem" – a guest comment in the "Press". Or: "Students demand more performance," says the new country supervisor of the Union Higher Students – this is an organisation close to the ÖVP –: "The Matura is tossed!" says Krupptel dry and complains about the consequences of this special offer." The economy is constantly complaining of the lack of mastery of basic cultural skills. – You could also express this less scientifically: The students should first read, write and count correctly, as well as learn a certain discipline so that they can acquire the skills they will certainly need and apply later in life and in the profession. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! There must be a stop. The school is not a large laboratory for psychologists. Youth must learn to deal with the tools it needs in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! More money does not automatically mean more quality and performance. The figures are simply rewritten in the budget. The services offered by the schools are essentially not improved, on the contrary: Vocational training courses are deleted, schools such as the fashion school in Bruck – although another operator was responsible for this, but several appeals were not heard – are closed, assistant posts to the HTL are deleted in favor of administrative assistants – but the civil service in the school administration remains fully preserved. On the other hand, there are thousands of unemployed teachers, but the "production" of potentially unemployed teachers will not be restricted or adjusted to longer-term needs. There is a lack of money for the re-training of those unemployed teachers who have already resigned, such as the "Small Newspaper" of 24. April writes: No money for teacher project – Teacher Retraining Initiative failed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember the early retirement model that Mrs Minister has praised here in the highest tones. I would like to know how many teachers could be created on the basis of the early retirement model. In my opinion, this model is only adopted in very few cases. The political influence in post-posting – especially in the head office – continues unabated. So it says in an article in the press: "Post award at school: Party influence instead of party position for candidates". In this respect too, there are largely no changes in view. Minister! As in the Committee, I would also like to address the issue of 'heil pedagogical stations'. These stations are becoming increasingly important. At these stations, children are cared for in crisis and acute situations, abuse victims or children from broken families in which alcohol plays an essential role. They are attached to clinics, but there teachers work under the most difficult conditions. I would particularly like to draw your attention to this small group of teachers. According to your information, there are nine such facilities in Austria, where, according to your information, 100 teachers are employed. The group maximum should be 12 participants, but this is far too high if you look at the work that the teachers have to do there. Supervision and further training must be regulated for this teacher group, and the conditions and possibilities for debt diagnostics must be brought to an optimal standard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Take this group of teachers! You have advertised for Christmas: 91 percent of parents are satisfied with the school of their children. – We are not satisfied with this. Your goal must be 100 percent! 100 percent of the trainees must be satisfied with their school, and we will achieve this only through performance requirements, through joy in learning and optimal preparation of the students for life. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11170	Mrs Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining time of your club is 18 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11191	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The compatibility of family and profession requires a school that responds to the changed social conditions. It is about seeing the school not only as a place of learning in the traditional sense, but also as an important, positive habitat for the children. We have already been able to gain extensive experience in Austria as part of very successful all-day school experiments. For the parents concerned, this facility means safety, optimal schooling for their children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Demand has been shown to be very high. All day schools are an effective form of school care from a pedagogical point of view. On the one hand, the meaningful change between teaching and leisure can make better use of the performance of pupils and increase motivation in terms of learning requirements. For parents, in turn, this form of school means effective relief. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As politicians, we have great responsibility for the design of all people. We must not abandon the children and their parents, but we must give them the support they need. We therefore call for an Austrian-wide, needs-based expansion of day-to-day schools. Where this is not possible, it is necessary to increase the provision of afternoon care to schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Vienna, the situation is relatively good. It is less good, however, in the western Länder, where there is a special need for re-examination in this respect. This is an unacceptable situation, especially for single mothers and for women who want to get back into work. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, for economic and personal reasons, it is not possible for many parents to stay home and care for their children themselves. It is therefore all the more important that a wide range of different forms of schooling and various leisure activities are available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many different options for choice would mean optimal individual decision-making for those concerned. We must not evade this responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few fundamental comments on the issue of "dissemination of the Federal Museums". Since the current form of organization as a self-employed institution of the federal government is no longer contemporary, an organisational reorientation was necessary. The aim of disseminating public law in the form of scientific institutions of the Federal Government is certainly a step in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of this distribution – to achieve greater autonomy and independence for the federal museums – is to support fully in content. Of course, it is also necessary to lay down the obligation to act as effectively as possible, economically and sparingly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Rapid implementation will be made possible, in particular, by means of the planned stage plan. This provides for the distribution and adoption of the museum regulations to be carried out at the same time, but must be carried out separately for each institution. And that's certainly very useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The planned four-year planning phase and multi-annuality of the budget allow for forward-looking planning, which is also in line with international examples. There is also the need to create an overall concept of all museums, and coordination is especially necessary with the Vienna level. As particularly positive and welcome, I would like to appreciate Mrs Gehrer's commitment to the Committee on Budgets that Parliament will continue to be involved and that the production of cultural reports has not been called into question. - Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11273	Mrs Motter has also been mentioned. Your club still has a 9 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11294	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to add the following to my previous speaker's remarks: I too would like to deal with our federal museums very briefly. Mrs. Minister! We are discussing today a budget chapter, which was still one of the great losers in 1995, but can now be described as a winner, and this is also pleasing for us liberals. The budget for cultural matters has increased steadily, i.e. in 1999 to 2 billion schilling, and that is, I admit, certainly an respectable success in times of saving. Mrs. Minister! But with this I am already finished with my praise. Figures, ladies and gentlemen, are important, but certainly not everything, and here my criticism is: What your ministry lacks, Mrs Minister – I am not saying this for the first time here, and you know it – is a cultural vision. The most important question is: Where are we to go with our federal museums? What should be their mission in the next millennium? Should they be depot, educational institution or tourist attraction? Mrs. Minister! In your so far published cultural reports, which are beautiful – I will always lift them – no such important questions will be addressed in any way. My knowledge has not yet been learned what expectations the potential visitors or the visitor have from a museum. Or, for example, has a dialogue been held with schools to find out what the young person, the student, the student, is expecting to visit a museum? – These are central questions for me. For me, the visitor can not fail at the museum, but at least the museum at the visitor. Another statement that I do not make here for the first time is that there is no coordination between the individual museums, because it is still the case that two to three openings take place at the same time on one evening. Harmonization in this area would not only be desirable, but would also be a target for the museum policy of the individual museums. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The aim of achieving the rightfulness of the museums is a step which we Liberals have long called for and therefore very much welcome. In my opinion, however, the procedure is questionable. A small illustrated group, under the direction of head of section Wran, has developed a concept for this century's project, without first being intended to discuss this concept only in a broader way. It is only thanks to the initiative of the Committee on Culture that the first draft of the Ministry has been widely discussed, and it is gratifying that, after this obstacle in the second draft, it is apparent that some thoughts and suggestions have been incorporated from the expert hearing. But there is also an inconsistency for me: Why, Mrs. Minister, did you first not want to send the second draft into consideration? Why did you first have to get a press release from us liberals to do this? However, one can only speak of a pseudo-judgment, which is because one cannot believe all serious that a serious examination of the text is possible in ten days, including the post-path. Mr Morak, who is not here now, of course said that the directors... – Sorry, I take it back! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You should be honest! He's already here!]] He said that the directors agreed to the draft. – Yes, Mr Morak, do the directors still decide? Are there no staff in the museums? There are also associations of citizens in our country – and you know them as well as I do – who should have been confronted with this draft, which should have been given enough time to deal with it accordingly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I must also note that the projects in the museum area are developing very slowly. For example, only massive pressure from the public and the small opposition parties has finally begun the long overdue renovation of the Albertina or the construction. Also other museums are largely not finished. The Technical Museum urgently needs additional financial resources to be able to open up in a meaningful way in a year. Mrs. Minister! In view of these facts, I do not understand why you are so overshadowing the exclusion. In order not to be misunderstood: We stand for justice, but we cannot go through such a century project at the moment, just because a director wants to reach it quickly for his house. My understanding of this would be to equip all museums in such a way that they are fully entitled to what we really want, and then, if they are properly equipped, they could really enforce justice. In the Netherlands, for example, all the houses were completely renovated before distribution. A feasibility study would normally be appropriate here. A breakdown without solving the problems in advance, only to achieve any political success, certainly does not lead to success. Another unexplained point is the future of the Bundesdenkmalamt. For years, work has been being carried out on redrafting a monument protection law as well as the statutes of the Federal Monument Office. There are still two lines of thought here: First: Should more skills be transferred to the federal states and costs passed on? Or, second, should the expert power be strengthened to be able to resist, if necessary, the political wishes of mayors and national leaders? Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! According to the Court of Auditors' audit report of 1993, the Council is about to strengthen the position of the Federal Office and make it more autonomous. So, Mrs. Minister, questions about questions. I hope you answer me one day. Mrs. Minister! Finally, I would like to address the recent case of theft in the National Library. It is inexplicable to me why after more than ten days an advertisement has been received to the police. Maybe you can tell me about it, too. Another question in this context is: Is there any evidence on this very unfortunate matter? I only hope that the search for the documentation of the missing stings will not bring new obstacles to the investigation of the theft, because if we had the long-required microfilms, where the stocks as in the other foreign national libraries are completely absorbed, the investigation or discovery would certainly be easier.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11340	Mr Dr. Mock has been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11361	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Mother! I understand that the main task of the opposition is to exercise critical control. But if everything is criticized and everything is assessed negatively, it is not very credible if you allow it to be said, nor to a minister who makes very much differentiated policies and also argues again and again. [[Abg. Mother: I didn't criticize everything, Dr. Mock!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I chose another topic, my own Ladies and gentlemen, for which almost 4 minutes is a disdain, namely the question of foreign language teaching. I believe that European integration also gives us a great opportunity to learn foreign languages more than ever. It corresponds to the Austrian tradition, it corresponds to our interests, and it also means a cultural enrichment for young people when they have multiple languages. Also, mastering the language of another people means finding access to the soul of that people. I therefore appeal to all bodies, institutions and persons involved in education, training, motivation for young people to learn foreign languages, on the basis of an improved knowledge of their own mother tongue. The knowledge of foreign languages must not be at the expense of one's own mother tongue. Especially in the field of folk school, the first experiences should be taught sensitively, not with pressure. At the time, when people started teaching foreign languages in the public school, I have massively supported the attempts at folk school with French and English, although some of them have been made understandable criticism. I am very glad that these school tests have proved to be positive. Only if one wants to teach children with sensitivity in a motivating way does the teacher also have to act in a motivating manner. It must also be motivated by the teacher, and the way in which the teacher was occasionally dealt with in recent years was not designed to motivate the teachers. A motivating teacher is a double teacher, and the opposite is bad. This is completely independent of your own pedagogical and teaching social beliefs. The educational ethos is very important, ladies and gentlemen. Where people are facing each other – that is the teacher, including the doctor – it takes the emotional understanding. We must therefore do everything to motivate and motivate teachers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am very grateful for the fact that Mrs Minister has always conducted the dialogue with the teachers, even in difficult situations. I would ask them to continue this path. The quality of education also determines the quality of young people in terms of their professional opportunities. The school is a kind of distribution instrument for social opportunities. You should always pay attention to this. Finally, the school should also convey valuables, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore clear to the teaching of religion. It must be left to the awakening man, what his conviction will be, but to give him an orientation, that is certainly a valuable support for his life. One cannot constantly be afraid of terrible events, of the abuse of young people in many ways, and at the same time be massively opposed to any orientation of moral values. I'm getting a name for it, especially in today's time. Freedom can be understood in this way, but freedom also brings with it obligations and responsibilities. I imagine being liberal, but liberal to the others. This is how we understand the term "liberal". Many are liberal to themselves and not liberal to others. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would therefore ask, Madam Minister, that you repeat this again and again. Repetitio est mater studiorum. The repetition is also an important point in the question of training. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us go this way, let us also take the path of diversity in linguistic training. Europe will then be a great cultural vision if everyone can deal with French authors as well as with German, Spanish and English. The knowledge of foreign languages is a tremendous access to cultural enrichment. Let's go this way because he brings wealth to our future generation: Wealth of ideas, wealth of opportunities, competitiveness in economic and social terms. Once again, Austria, to which this diversity corresponds, could prove itself as a country, which also has its cultural policy mark on Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11418	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11439	Mr President. High house! I would now like to answer a few questions and comment on some points. It is a pleasure that from 1994 to 1999, we can have a budget increase of 21 percent in the field of culture. We can also provide the necessary resources for the re-establishment of the exhibition collection of the Technical Museum, for the opening of the Technical Museum on 22. In April 1999, the Albertina study building, for the museum quarter and for the further development of the other museums. With regard to Mrs Motter's question concerning the theft that has been found in the National Library, I would like to say that: As soon as this became known to us in the ministry, an advertisement was immediately made available. On the question of why this had not happened before, I was told that the extent of the theft had first been determined, because one did not know exactly what extent it was dealing with it. But it was immediately when it became known to me in the ministry that there was the instruction that an advertisement should be made immediately. That was, I believe, the necessary and right step. On the issue of the distribution of museums. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a way of ensuring full justice, while maintaining political responsibility. That is, we do not say goodbye to the responsibility for the billions we put into the museums, for the taxpayers who are invested there, we carry on this responsibility. However, with this transformation into scientific institutions, we want to give the museums the greatest possible freedom of movement in the area of the budget, in the field of planning, and we believe that the objectives of the museums are clearly and clearly reflected in the legal mandate. It was agreed in the Committee on Culture that a museum planning aimed at the future will be the content of the next cultural report, which we will be very happy to discuss with the members of the Committee on Culture. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to education. There has also been an increase in education, which has already been mentioned. I would like to make it clear once and for all, because this is my concern: The figures show clearly that there is no reduction in education. Not only the proportions between students and teachers, but also the increase in educational qualifications clearly show that there are more high educational qualifications in Austria. I would now like to mention the comparisons between 1981 and 1996. In 1981, 4 percent of the total number of students completed a BHS. This value has now doubled; it is now 8.8 percent. There is a significant increase in the AHS sector, and there are also more degrees in the university area. Of course, the group, which has only one degree in compulsory education, is falling sharply. If there were still 40.6 percent of an age in 1981, it was only 26.6 percent in 1995. So the value has almost halved and will certainly develop even further downwards. . I think, in view of these figures, it is possible to say with fug and law that there is very much an increase in the quality of education. I would also like to say the following: One should not speculate with fear here by saying that 36 students in a class are the rule case. I say clearly and clearly: 36 students are not the case! They are a very, very large exception, as the average schooling figures show very clearly. In the AHS area, the average number of students, as it has already been mentioned, is 22.6. So you're far from 36. The average number of pupils in the BMHS area is 24.4. So you're far from that number that's always been called. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the teacher's guide, I would like to say one thing: We should distinguish between teacher's guidance and job description. A guide is always something that is created together with those concerned, where one clearly knows that the way is also an objective, namely this joint work on the Teachers' Guide. You really shouldn't always mix everything together. I am very glad that this teacher's guide has been drawn up by the trade union. Ladies and gentlemen! Another basic statement. It is always said that it is so terrible that 90 percent of the teaching budget is personnel costs. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is school? – School consists of our good teachers, school consists of high-performance teachers, school consists of teachers who are willing to develop and continue their education. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] Over 70 percent of teachers make use of the training courses each year. I think it is a matter of course that these staff costs are secured in the budget, and all teachers have also deserved to get their biennial jumps and their advances. That is why, I think, these staff costs should be seen as positive, as investments in teaching, as investments in the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11508	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Riepl has now been reported to speak. 13 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11533	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am grateful to you, Mrs Federal Minister, for the last comment that school is made up of committed teachers, but I would add that, from my point of view, school also consists of students who need support, who need support, who really need our whole affection. Thirdly, school also consists of cooperation with parents, with parent associations, with dedicated officials and all those who accept this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our dual training system is considered by many to be important, and my group belongs to it. However, this system of occupational and school education has also been called into question with regard to financing. More and more, the question is: Who pays what? and in the political debate we are confronted with this question. It's clear: Business training pays the farm, because it also has the benefit of doing so. Perhaps not at the same time, but certainly in the course of the study period and in any case thereafter, the skilled skilled worker he has trained will benefit him. School education pays for the society we pay, which is paid by the state, and I think it should remain with this separation. If, on the other hand, costs are increasingly regarded as a burden, in particular by the economy, then we should also consider how to achieve a cost-equilibrium within the economy, because we have to do with farms that do not train, and with businesses that traditionally and out of conviction train. I therefore believe that a cost compensation could lead to a long-term financing of training and finally end the eternal discussion and the eternal mutual calculation of those who pay what, in the interests of those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few days ago, the Austrian trade union youth presented to the public a proposal for a burden compensation, and I believe that this proposal is a good basis for discussion for the future financing of our apprenticeship training.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11579	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11600	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Austria's training system does not need to hide an international comparison. In the Global Competitiveness Report '97, Austria is in the ranking of training that meets the requirements of the economy, in the fourth place across the EU in front of countries such as the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany, France or the United Kingdom. With regard to the proportion of higher education schools in relation to the population, Austria is absolutely leading with a rate of 67.9%. In the second place, the Republic of the Alps is when it comes to the share of education expenditure in percentages of gross domestic product, which is 5.8 percent. As a result, budgetary expenditure on the chapter on education has also developed positively. Over the last decade, there have been consistently expenditure increases. This is extremely positive, and it also affects the level of education. In a survey conducted in 1997 among 523 local top managers, training and further training was listed as the government's second most important economic policy task following the reduction of additional wage costs. According to recent statistics, over 30 Austrians participate in further training measures. This is just above the EU average. However, since the half-life of knowledge – depending on the subject – is at three and a half years, it is logical that half of the time of learning is already taking place today after graduation from school and university. However, in Austria, as much as 90 percent of teaching expenditure is still in initial training and only 10 percent are in continuing training. In the USA, this ratio is 40 to 60. This transformation will naturally have to be accompanied by a change of consciousness, which will also involve the school. For example, Zurich Professor Ernst Buschor says: "School isn't just pauke. The necessary culture of lifelong learning develops only when school is fun." I am convinced that today's students will be given the best for the future with the teachers of today. With their use, teachers support life-long learning. And this serves the good economic location of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11646	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11667	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is as low as the budget approach I would like to deal with briefly, namely the approach to adult education. Only 0.23 percent of the education budget is for adult education. From the point of view of lifelong learning or life-long learning, this is a little bit less – especially when one knows that those who effectively evaluate their knowledge can achieve much better in competition. This, in turn, means that the trend, the worse the qualification, the greater the risk of losing a job, continues to speed up. Half of all unemployed people have "only" - under quotation marks - compulsory completion or no completion at all. In the area of so-called regular training to Matura, the Austrian population has achieved significant heights over the past 25 years. In the tertiary sector, on the other hand, we are still underdeveloped in Austria. Adult education, ladies and gentlemen, must be institutionalized as an integral part of the Austrian educational landscape. The schools must be open to adult education. The cooperation of schools and AMS training bodies such as BFI and Wifi must be forced. The curriculums must be drawn up together with these institutions and should be based on the labour market in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the entrepreneurial credo that employees are their largest capital, the entrepreneurs see the training and further training as the employee's source of debt. This makes training a private matter and a temporary and financial problem. For example, the price fees for preparing the professional maturity test are between 20 000 and 30 000 S, with an additional 4 000 to 5 000 S of examination fees. Training measures, I believe, must also be accessible to less-income people in order to be able to break through the vicious circle: little income – no training opportunities, dequalification – even less income and, finally, loss of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11709	Mrs Dr. Brinek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If I sum up the debate and the outlook for the budget in a way, I can distinguish between two groups: the unbridled changers on the one hand and the unmovable insisters on the other. The unbridled changers want to convert school completely: Autonomy without philosophy, without goal, without method, without concept, so to speak, leave the old in any case without thinking about the New Thought. The unmovable insisters are no longer necessary for the future, because they think it's all right anyway, so nothing has to be changed. They ignore that a learning society also needs a learning school. Therefore, the concept can only be a concept of the middle. That sounds simple, but it's very strenuous when you look at it more closely. I present in a second thought the thoughts that Hans-Christian Reichel made. He is a university professor at TU Vienna, teachers, computer scientists, mathematicians and the Austrian expert in the so-called TIMMS study and evaluation process. It has formulated three problem zones and answers not only from the international perspective, but from the overall discussion with the future of school. Problem zone and answer one: There's a lot of routine in our school life. The routine is important, especially when we think about the weaker, the middle-talented students. At the routine, at the routine task, you can stop in a certain way, orientate. In this context, Reichel calls for even more demanding questions to be developed in the future, to work towards independent solutions. - We just need to know: This is an ambitious concept. Second point: He says that the distribution of content, the problems in the school year must succeed better. What does that mean? – Our knowledge is divided by school working periods and by school working hours. This has a legal consequence, such as opposition opportunities and more. Finally, he says that school learning needs more weight. Learning is often concealed as a mere buffalo of individual knowledge, as a sepulchre of yesterday. It is forgotten that overview knowledge can only succeed if there is basic knowledge. I join this point in full content, so that – as Reichel says so beautifully – it does not come to a knit without wool. So knitting without wool can't be the concept of the future. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Take yarn! Take yarn!]] What to conclude in summary? – School must and should focus on the main task of learning and education. This is for me personally and some others also the conclusion from the first steps to the teacher's guide. By the way, guidance development in the economy is directed at the institution and not at the people. So I only see the previous approach as a first step. Finally, because we cannot say so much about the needs and qualifications of the future, we must concentrate on the primary task of school and must not overshadow us through self-tailed guidelines. For the teacher training I have a beautiful sentence: High qualification! For he must know much that wants to teach others to become wise with little knowledge. – That can be the concept for 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11768	Mr Schwemmlein, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for 8 minutes remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11798	High house! I am going to cut my speaking time out of solidarity with my follow-up speaker. So just one appeal to you, Mrs. Federal Minister: I would ask you to present us with a handling as soon as possible, as we should deal with all the young people who are threatened not to get a apprenticeship. [[Abg. Großruck: Ask the climate! That's what the climate knows!]] I believe that we all agree that it is not important whether someone is trained in a company today, in a teaching workshop, through a foundation or as always: The crucial thing is that young people have a perspective, have a future, and that we give them the training they need to deal with their problems in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11836	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11858	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwamlein! You should have asked this question, not the Federal Minister, but the Federal Chancellor. He has given this famous job guarantee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already criticised the fact that it is not serious to give such a guarantee. Of course, there is a comprehensive effort, and it has also been implemented positively in the National Employment Action Plan, but ultimately it is not particularly serious to give such a guarantee. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] It is very interesting that today, in particular, the opposition parties are strongly criticised for increasing the educational budget. That obviously hurts. I would have liked to see the debate that would have taken place if there had been a reduction. It is a pleasure that we have a significant increase in the educational budget, namely by 3.2 billion schilling, and that is certainly a merit of our Federal Ministers. The fact that the school, as it stands – even if it is not yet mentioned – cannot be as bad as it can be, Mr Schöggl has confirmed by saying that it is possible to seek 100 percent of the consent of the parents, because there is currently only 91 percent of the vote. – Please, 91 percent consent, I believe, can only be desired in the area in which it operates! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short, because I also want to leave time for a colleague to speak: I believe that we must continue to make sure that we are able to provide more practical guidance at school – I am thinking of the establishment of training offices or business practices – because this, in the end, also means that school leavers can find easier jobs. Practice is required everywhere today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11918	Mrs Krammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The remaining time of their club is 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e11939	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Amon, I would suggest that we agree that the apprentices or those young people who do not find a teaching place are our concern. Let's not push them back and forth like unloved children! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that every member of the Federal Government bears responsibility and feels responsible for these children. All will contribute to achieving a satisfactory solution. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And if I say, everyone, then every member of the Federal Government is meant to mean all the political groups who are in the Federal Government. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 25 years, it has succeeded in increasing the proportion of maturants and academics in the labour force from 10 percent to 23 percent. The most important contribution has been made by vocational education and training schools. The proportion of BHS graduates in the labour force has quadrupled. And I think it is appropriate to say a few thank you to the teachers and the professors at this point, because they are often the thankless. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll give you the applause. Don't put on any pressure! Most people liked the role of teachers' critics. I read a very interesting discussion about the sufferings of teachers some time ago. The author refers to it as "Morbus Adorno" based on the philosopher Theodor Adorno. I don't have enough time to do exactly how the author describes what he understands under this "Morbus Adorno". Therefore, only very briefly: This is the cost of suffering for the vital distance between training and painting. Because teachers often suffer from society. They suffer from the requirement to perform miracles. They suffer from the fact that wrong expectations are constantly addressed to the school, in terms of what the school can do and what the school can do. They suffer from the fact that some parents are relinquishing educational tasks at school instead of performing them themselves. They suffer from the fact that young people, their students, are often overloaded with too high demands in their years of development. They suffer from the fact that some managers are publicly explaining – and this has actually happened – that BHS graduates would not have grown enough to meet the requirements of the economy. This statement, which a person in the economy actually made, has caused a great deal of displeasure with the BHS teachers and the directors over the last few weeks. I draw the conclusion, or sometimes I have the impression – and I said that there in this discussion too – that some people in the economy see the ideal staff, the ideal BHS graduates as follows: 19 or 20 years of age, with the knowledge and experience of 50 years of age and with salary in the amount of apprenticeship compensation. If this being who is applying is still female, then she should certainly bring with her a medical confirmation of guaranteed infertility. – This is the ideal BHS graduate that the economy wants. Just, this "ideal" combination that doesn't exist! I agree, not all in the economy have this idea, but many, and one has pronounced it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Who?]] Again and again, this accusation arises that teachers do not make up the students according to the needs of the economy. There are, of course, also a few in the economy who, as I believe, have long been on a success road. This also shows those graduates of vocational schools who are already highly successful in the profession and who, in turn, are training and continuing to train young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The focus in the field of vocational education and training has led to increased economic performance in Austria. It turns out that the path is basically the right one. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to address what my esteemed and my very beloved predecessor, Mr Schweitzer, has said. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please? Please?]] [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and to the liberals.]] - Shame! Life is hard. But I'm not going to miss out on you the next time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12040	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12061	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Krammer, I am sorry if I get into this love relationship, but perhaps I can explain your statements for our friends from the ÖVP a little closer. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Young]] [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Under quotation marks!]] What you said should be: Dear members of the government of the ÖVP, it is your duty to implement the full-bodied, irregular, populist promises of the Federal Chancellor. - That's just for better interpretation. There is no one here in the room who does not make every effort to bring youth unemployment to the fore. But it was reserved for a single Lord, the Chancellor, to claim this work for himself and to take the result. That was unfair, and it was properly expressed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say a few words about school sports – we all deserved an end to the meeting after this long week. – Mrs Bundesminister, my Ceterum Censeo: I promised you to introduce the subject of sports at every debate on debt. I am certainly doing so in the interest of Mr Grabner, because we are of the common opinion that it is in danger in the field of school sport. The Federal Minister, who unfortunately does not lend me her ear, has chosen a very serious procedure for the new curriculum for physical education and asked the sports scientists two years ago to comment on this new curriculum. The result has now been given to me on the subject of sports science, as direct information, such as on the teaching committee, cannot be obtained. Professor Stefan Grössing, the great educator of the University of Salzburg, says: The practice of physical education is threatened as a school subject. It has become an argumentative compulsion and an emergency through organisational measures in the context of an autonomous school. It is important to stress the need for body-related and motor lessons in a classy school. That's what Professor Grössing says. And he goes on to say, especially since you, Mrs. Federal Minister, feel that physical training does not have to be done primarily in school: School movement education is responsible for the movement, the school movement education is responsible for the body, the school movement education is responsible for education. These are the starting points and key dates of a curriculum, which was prepared at the last stage of March 1998 with reasonable and proper steps and which also contains excellent statements for a future curriculum, such as: performing sporty competitive activities and competing from the point of view of proving themselves, experiencing and respecting performance limits, identifying risk and dangers in sports. – But the curriculum also determines, for example, that the discovery and development of complex movements in different environments and different situations – in snow, ice, rock and water – can be taught. Why do I say that? – It was repeated here in the course of the teaching debates – primarily by your predecessor – that this part of physical education is to be placed in the privacy of the parents, in the sphere of the clubs and that the school has increasingly withdrawn from it. The curriculum provides this content in a meaningful way. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to implement the curriculum with this salary as well. However, new organizational regulations will become necessary in your schools. This will also require some of the budget, and this is missing in the 1999 budget. I do not see any aspect in this direction, as always. You yourself have not taken the word "sport" into your mouth in the course of your opinion. I would ask you to take seriously and implement the useful work carried out under the direction of your official Redl. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12111	Mr Stampler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12132	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to suggest that the 1999 budget has been very careful and prudent in the field of education. I would like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore careful because, compared with 1997, the budget chapter 12 has experienced an increase of 67.7 billion to 72.7 billion schilling. Such an increase is very pleasing at this time. In his budget speech, Mr. Finanzminister spoke on 25 May. March stresses that education in Austria has always had a high priority in international comparison and that – I quote – education is "a crucial basis for a modern, progressive and democratic society". It is therefore crucial for me that education is not saved in the wrong place, because – I can only stress this over and over again – education costs are investment costs. It's about investing in youth, into the future. These are investments that amortize in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me briefly address a point I would like to address, namely the school libraries. The school libraries also have a very high priority in the 1999 budget. They are no longer just collections of books, but real information and communication centres. Personally, I have recently been able to attend some of the openings in the field of compulsory education, and it should be noted that the recipients are there for the communities that are making a very high financial effort for the establishment of such library spaces. But it is not only about the financial use, but also about the fact that such facilities are operated by dedicated teachers with much love and with the help of students and parents. For example, school libraries not only promote the prestige of the school, they are also a success for the entire population in this area. A bookstore today invites you to stay and lubricate and is the center of this school. Expenditure in this area is important, and I am grateful to you, Mrs Minister, for the fact that these institutions are now being given a very high priority and are also taken into account in modern means of communication. Finally, I can quote from a newspaper entitled "Saves in Education": Among the school politicians of all parties there is agreement: Austria must meet the economic and social challenges of the coming years with an educational offensive: more foreign language skills, familiarity with new technologies, better social skills, and that in addition to the subject canon. - Quote. I'm convinced: With a Mrs Gehrer, who comes from this field of education, the educational offensive will continue in this sense in 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12195	Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Time left: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12217	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Two final thoughts: I recently had a conversation with a woman who came to Austria from Great Britain with her children, and these children went to school here with us. We have talked about the difference between Austria and the UK, and she has said what she has particularly noticed is this: At school, we take care of what someone can't do. What someone can't do will be noted. At home, on the other hand, it was so - she was so used to her school - that primarily what someone can do is be evaluated. I think that should give us some thought, because this is an important issue which Mr Mock, for example, referred to. A second one: The main concern of all is the national employment plan and what we can do for young people in education policy. This is where vocational education and training has taken on a very important role. I know and we know: There is a lot of creativity, many new ideas, what one could do with the young people in vocational education. We have to let the schools do this, we have to let them loosen the reins here so that they can implement their ideas as well. Then again, a few hundred young people will have more training and, as a result, employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12256	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Rest of the time of your club: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12283	Mr President. High house! Before I come to a question in connection with a schoolbook, Mrs Bundesminister, allow me to make a clear statement on the events this morning, which obviously also move the media. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the meantime, it has become apparent how this has been done: that Mr Khol has tried to hold back his interlocutory call, which has led to outrages with my group and especially with colleagues Haigermoser, in order to be able to manipulate him, as has been the case with Mrs Moser. [[Abg. May. Steindl: On the matter!]] – The "parliamentary correspondence" does not at all take any responsibility for the actions of Mr Khol. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have a paper here, a statement, Mr Khol: You said you wanted to hold this back because you probably wanted to manipulate it just as Mr Moser did at the time, because you were embarrassed by the call. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh, oh!]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: On the matter!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman as well as the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] The "parliamentary correspondence" – and that was said in the direction of the ladies and gentlemen staff representatives – at that time has not been able to do anything for the operation of Mrs Moser and has not been able to do anything for the course of the House of Deputies. – You should refrain from such things, Mr. Khol! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and with the liberals.]] If intermediate calls are embarrassing to you, you should think about what you are saying before – and not try afterwards to correct your own statements about the "parliamentary correspondence". [[New calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] Go inside, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What's incredible, Mr. Fischer? What?]] What's incredible? Mr Khol! [[Lively calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] Mr Khol! [[Further lively calls in the liberals and counter-calls at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] Mr Khol! You see that your attempt to correct your embarrassing word message afterwards ends in chaos that you have caused. [[Abg. May. Steindl: On the matter!]] [[Call the ÖVP:For business! On the matter!]] This is embarrassing for you today, but you should be able to apologize at least to colleagues Haigermoser. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP:For business!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister knows of a schoolbook which, with the approval of the Federal Ministry of Education from 1993 – which is, of course, established in its predecessor phase – is re-established for the secondary school schools, 1995 and 1997 in the publishing house Jugend und Volks, which prescribing Turkish teaching at the second school in German! In other words, we must focus our schoolchildren now on the fact that, under an ÖVP minister in German teaching, Turkish can be learned, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. May. Steindl: Such a nonsense!]] You need a smile? That's the case! I got it here, I got a copy here, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Their party proposes that it should be a prerequisite for foreigners to have German knowledge that they must attend German courses so that they can come to citizenship, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should come and allow our schoolchildren to learn Turkish in German teaching in national schools! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Swirl]] Mrs. Federal Minister, can you explain this to me? [[Call the SPÖ: Your request has already been answered!]] Did you talk to Mrs. Mother Turkish now, or what is that like? [[Abg. Grabner: You don't always have to talk like that! That's a joke!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Turkish learning is not the task of compulsory schooling in the second grade. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should know, Mrs Bundesminister, that your own party friends in Vorarlberg have a problem with this. [[Abg. Grabner: The whole party has a problem with you!]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] You won't be able to explain that to anyone in Vorarlberg. I can show you some ÖVP communities where you do not understand that you want to bring schoolchildren in German lessons to learn Turkish there. I don't want my children to learn Turkish there. I would like them to be able to do German properly, I would like them to learn French and English because, as Mr Mock said, it is so important in the European Union that the most important languages of the European Union can be done. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I am not aware, Mrs Federal Minister, that Turkey is in the European Union, and I am of the opinion here with Mr Novotny that Turkey will not yet be in the European Union for a very long time, because that would be the end of the European Union if Turkey contributed to the Union – by Mr Novotny, who was thoroughly and correctly argued at the meeting of the main committee, which was concerned, among other things, with this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now ask you, on behalf of my group, Mrs Bundesminister, to stop with this nonsense that Austrian children are required to learn Turkish in German teaching at the folk school! [[Abg. Nürnberger: "Request"? Where are we?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: He's yelling around! A whore!]] This is not the task of German teaching! If someone believes that his children should also learn Turkish, then there will be some private school facilities. [[Abg. Grabner: I ask you to return the millions!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Where are the millions?]] Mr Grabner with the red sakko! Do you want to learn Turkish? You can't even German! What do you want to learn Turkish, Mr. Grabner? [[Live calls.]] But with the teaching method proposed by this Minister of Education, it is no wonder that there are more and more Members sitting here who are no longer powerful even in the German language! [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Stop!]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Stop this displeasure! Make sure that we learn German again in our folk schools, just as your party demands as a prerequisite for naturalization, and ensure that basic cultural techniques are again mastered there!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12649	Mr Oellinger has made a statement on an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. The rules are known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12674	Mr President. High house! Mr Stadler said in his speech that Mr Moser had tried to manipulate the parliamentary protocol. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was the case!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: He apologized!]] This claim is incorrect, as many others say, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: A few years ago he apologized!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have had to correct it officially! You should know that, Mr President. The President-in-Office of the Council and the President have made this happen.]] In fact, it is true that Mr Moser has tried to fix the gesture she has shown as a reference sign in the Minutes, and this is also evident from a video documentation which the House has about these as well as all the other speeches. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a president! He's still covering it!]] [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The President covers a forgery on the record!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: (Fig. May. Stadler instigating) "The President is falsifying, the President is lying, the President is cheating!"]] At the time, Mr Stadler was informed in the debate of the actual corrections, and he repeated this claim against better knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12810	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. Rest of the time of your club: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12831	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that Mr Stadler, who is so keen to join NATO, is discrediting NATO's partner Turkey as far as his language is concerned. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true at all!]] It is not nice to fight with someone on the side, to make fun of his language and not to learn his language. [[Lively cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP wants to learn Turkish because we come to NATO! That's the best!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The real reason, however, that I have spoken again, Mr Stadler, is that I do not want anyone to have the last word in this House, which still, after the whole course of the debate, does not consider it worth presenting the processes of the Stenographic Protocol as they are. You know that there is no error on the part of the Stenograf service here, and you should simply admit that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] If you can't, Mr Stadler, prove your moral incompetence once again! - Good evening, my lords! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Deputies Khol wanted to intervene!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12911	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12933	Mr President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Stadler, we have answered your question concerning this book very precisely and extremely meticulously. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There are a few expressions in Turkish contained in this book. [[Abg. Grabner: So he said the untruth again!]] There is no obligation to learn Turkish. It is not required in any curriculum to learn Turkish. – I think we should not only talk about intercultural learning, but also care for it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12974	Mrs Ing. has spoken. Langthaler. Time left: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e12996	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the chapter on education and how the future generation in this country will eventually be trained and how it will take over this country. It is so embarrassing that, especially in such a debate, the Freedom Party is continuing what we have been experiencing here for four days. I've been in the house for eight years now, but I've never experienced a week like this here, in which every day you were argued in such a way, with so much hatred and so much aggressiveness, in which the basic consensus there was in any form in this House, to 100 percent – to 100 percent! – it was hurt in which you threw around with terms that just never... [[Abg. May. Firminger: Go, really?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ladies and gentlemen, the Khol is not ours!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ladies and gentlemen, the Khol is not ours!]] [[New calls to the liberals: The khol is really not ours!]] They have begun to apply Mafia relations here in the Federal Government's collective and in all its Member States. That's totally crazy! Mrs. Federal Minister, I think we should put a book to the heart of all our students, a book written by the head of state in Salzburg, and this shows which parties have unfortunately already given it in this country "in order to destroy it". [[Call from the Freeman: Learn Turkish!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: "To the Parliament to destroy it"!]] This party is unfortunately a successor party. [[towards the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's another expression!]] This week you have no different list than it can be read in this book. I really have to say: We finally need a basic consensus to deal with this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I have actually believed so far, there is at least the possibility... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what a Communist says!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] A communist! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can no longer breathe before hatred!]] I can't breathe here at times because I don't, or hardly bear, that in a country that confesses to democracy, a party with it – unfortunately! – 22 percent sit, who does not accept any basic democratic consensus at all and do everything to undermine and destroy this democracy. [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the Abg. Grabner]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13166	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler: second word entry. Time left: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13188	Mr President. High house! First clarification: Mr Khol is not from our group, so his hateful calls from the morning have nothing to do with the liberals. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And the Rosenstingl not because he had no money anymore!]] Second clarification, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs. Federal Minister, your statement, this is a few words that appear in the reading book, in the German reading book, is wrong. It's on the 20 pages – I copied them here. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: What do you copy them for? You can't read them anyway!]] I don't know if You have already minimized basic cultural techniques so much that you and your employees can no longer count up to 20. To the 20 pages in this reading book, on which it is about learning Turkish in German! That's going to be You must explain in Vorarlberg! I am going to make sure that there is still a lot ahead of you there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] In a party in which the German course is required as a prerequisite for citizenship, it is absolutely unacceptable to force the children of school in Austria to learn Turkish. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, to the debate today and in the last four days: They tried to beat cheap capital out of the Rosenstingl Gaunerfall, quite by the way. – This is the summation of the last four days. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What?]] Rosenstingl is not responsible for the Ostmafia contacts, but they are your own people. You can read this daily in the daily newspapers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13275	Mr Dr. Kier. Time left: 1 minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13297	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's just that it's also important to me with one minute to reject all of this and simply say: One must really take all his strength together in order to overcome these inbearities, which ridicule every description and which are simply proof that the panic is apparently so great that hatred is already surpassing everything. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Bravo!]] That is really not necessary, and that is also a wrong way! My last appeal: Give up this hatred! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Where does hatred come from?]] He won't benefit you unless he's tormenting us. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Where does hatred come from? Where did he come from?]] And only to torment the other people, that can't be a purpose! That can't be a purpose of its own!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13383	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapter 12 of the Federal estimates and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13426	I note that Parliamentary Peter Rosenstingldie's session has remained distant, and I am not apologising for it. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00122_d7e13454	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, self-employed applications 781/A to 787/A have been tabled. Questions 4433/J to 4449/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 26 May. May 1998, 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. I would remind you that the intervening meeting of the Committee on Transport is now continuing in local IV. The sitting is closed.
