ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2633	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 135. Meeting of the National Council. I note that the official protocol of 133. Meeting of 7. In July, the European Parliament's Directorate remained open and without any opposition. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Kammerlander, Wenitsch, Haller, Großruck and Ing. Wait, wait, wait, Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2667	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office has reported on a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on the fact that Mr Wolfgang Schüssel is represented by Mr Fassleven. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2691	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2834	Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades requested that the written question put to Parliament before the entry into the agenda be put to us 4676/J. Stoisits and comrades to the Federal Minister for the Interior on the deportation of Kosovo Albanians. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which are known to you, this urgent question will be referred to the House at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2859	I should also like to say before the entry into the agenda that Mr Magistrate is here. The main request was made to the Financial Committee for Reporting on the resolution 767/A (E) concerning the inactivity of the Austrian Federal Government in connection with the application for the 2006 Winter Olympics for a deadline until 16. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. As I too have the request to hold a short debate on this request for a deadline, I am going to proceed accordingly. This short debate will be held following the negotiation of the urgent question. The vote will take place immediately after the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2883	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to sum up the debate on points 3 to 8, 9 to 13, 14 and 15 and 19 and 20 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. That's how it's defined. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2912	Consensus was reached at the presidential meeting on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The High House has to decide on this. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. It has been decided that we shall proceed in this way. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs on the economic situation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2946	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following the declarations, a joint debate on these statements will take place within the meaning of § 81. I can now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e2973	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Traditionally, the Finance and Economic Ministers report to the High House once a year on the economic situation of Austria and the economic aspects of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is more than ever necessary to consider the international environment in which our country and our economy have to move. We were and are witnesses of great changes that have profound influences on the economic, working and living conditions in Austria, and will also have in the future. The transformation of the Eastern European states into democracies with market economies, for example, has opened up many new opportunities and prospects. It has the same historical dimension as the enormous progress made in European integration, in particular through economic and monetary union. Finally, the so-called globalisation of the economy also affects the conditions of economic action in Austria. Our policy, Austrian policy, must therefore be increasingly geared to the greatest possible involvement of international framework conditions for our country. The integration of Austria into the European Union and the participation of EMU mean great opportunities for our country, but also a high responsibility in the development of these framework conditions. At the beginning of this week, as the new President-in-Office of the ECOFIN in Brussels, I had the opportunity to present our programme for the Austrian Presidency to my financial ministers from the EU Member States and, of course, to the public. I would also like to take advantage of today's opportunity to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian National Council, of my positions represented there. Economic policy issues play an important role in this. At the top of our priorities, we must and will continue and strengthen the common initiatives to combat unemployment and increase employment in the Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, we could ask why Austria is considering this issue as a matter of priority, but our country has the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. But work is a crucial basis of existence for each and every one and the foundation for true progress towards a social, just and peaceful Europe. And that is our goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] National employment action plans have therefore been drawn up on the basis of a Community strategy and are in implementation. The first interim review of the success will be carried out at the Vienna European Council in December of this year. Another task over the next six months will be to prepare for the introduction of the single European currency, the euro. It will be of great importance that, in parallel, we should bring about the necessary intensification of economic policy coordination in the European Union. With the Euro-11 Group, we have set up a discussion forum dedicated in particular to this issue. This group, which was established at the beginning of June under my chairmanship in Luxembourg, met on Monday in Brussels, and we have taken a few steps on this issue. A particular concern must also be to make progress in harmonising European tax policy, although I am aware that this is a particularly difficult task. But: Tax policy is used very strongly as an instrument of location policy, and competition is sometimes led by unfair means. This is neither a question of equality nor a question of adjustment. This is primarily a matter of coordination and, in particular, of important competitive taxes, of minimum standards to ensure fair competition in the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, in the discussion of the European Commission's proposals for reforming EU policies and the new medium-term financial framework, which are summarised in Agenda 2000, we have undertaken to clarify as many questions as possible, as in the first half of the coming year under the German Presidency, before the elections to the European Parliament, a final political agreement on the future path of the Union will be possible in the next decade. That is why we have the great task of structurally introducing the very difficult discussions in the field of medium-term financing of the European Union under the Austrian Presidency. The Presidency in the European Union thus gives us an opportunity to draw the European Union's common energy more closely on those tasks which are particularly important for the good development of Europe, and hence for us, our economy and the people working in it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This scope for design, which traditionally belongs to the Presidency of the European Union, is the special opportunity I have spoken about, an opportunity that we can and will benefit from together. We have to look for European solutions, but they also meet our Austrian concerns. But we must be clear that in a community, not one alone, but all together decide. Ladies and gentlemen! The central concern of our economic policy must therefore be the successful fight against unemployment. For unemployment is a waste of valuable human talents and abilities. Unemployment is a social injustice for the people affected by it. Unemployment and its consequences also burden public budgets. And reducing unemployment is also the key to the sustainable success of the common European currency. [[Further applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would remind you that the Amsterdam European Council in 1997 included its own chapter on employment in the Treaty on European Union and adopted a resolution on growth and employment. Austrian initiatives – we can be proud of this – have contributed significantly to this. At the Luxembourg Employment Summit, Member States were obliged to draw up a National Employment Action Plan. For Austria, the National Action Plan for Employment was prepared by the Federal Government in intensive cooperation with the social partners. It is a good programme, also because it is based on the common conviction that effective employment policy requires the coordinated use of many different economic policy instruments in order to meet the very diverse and complex causes of unemployment. In particular, we will set the following priorities: First: The National Action Plan aims to further improve the quality of education, which is an increasingly important foundation for good income and employment opportunities for all. Secondly, Further development of the dual training system through the creation of new apprenticeships and more flexible forms of training in response to changes in the requirements for employees in the context of structural change. Thirdly, Developing the innovative labour market policy of the labour market service through additional support measures for training, new jobs in social services, employment foundations and re-entry programmes, which are tailored to the needs of individual groups particularly affected by unemployment. Fourth: Strengthening labour demand, in particular by reducing barriers to access to self-employment and promoting the creation of new jobs, particularly in the health sector. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, are complemented by the modernisation of labour law by the social partners. This should, on the one hand, make it possible to take better account of the changes in the wishes of workers while at the same time increasing the adaptability required. Finally: To improve equal opportunities for women, in particular through the provision of childcare facilities and the reduction of barriers to return to work. A broad programme, an ambitious programme, a programme that will help ensure more employment for Austrians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our objective is – this is an ambitious goal – that these measures will create the basis for the creation of some 100 000 additional jobs over the next five years and that the unemployment rate may fall to almost 3.5 percent. This is a goal that we have committed ourselves to with all our possibilities. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the National Employment Action Plan has succeeded in developing employment policy instruments. At the same time, the basis for coordination between the institutions could be improved, which also need to be implemented by the individual measures. This will help to increase the effectiveness of employment policy as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The National Action Plan is the result of the interaction of initiatives at European and Austrian level. It is thus not least a successful example of the use of new economic opportunities through our accession to the European Union. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the development of employment in Austria shows a partly very encouraging picture, although I do not mention that I am very concerned about unemployment. At the end of June this year, just over 3.1 million people were self-employed in Austria. This is the highest number of employed people we ever had in Austria this month. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is hardly known to many people and is not said much too much. We have a record of employees in Austria. The increase in the number of jobs in Austria was thus around 26 000 compared to the same month of the previous year. This means that in Austria, within a year, framework conditions have been created which have allowed 26 000 people to give additional work. It is a pleasure to note that over two thirds of these new jobs are filled with women. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Economic researchers expect employment growth of 32 000 new jobs for this year. Although the number of jobs in Austria is increasing, for many people, but also for some professionals, the number of jobseekers also increases surprisingly and incomprehensiblely. For even more so than the number of new jobs, labour supply is increasing, i.e. the number of those who want to enter the labour market and find employment. In June this was slightly over 200 000 people, around 8,000 more than in June of the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! This encourages our great efforts to further improve those conditions that will lead to more employment. In all the problems, I would like to point out in particular that last year's youth policies led to a reduction in young people's unemployment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Austria has the lowest rate of youth unemployment in Europe. And I think this is particularly remarkable and important, because in the initial phase of life, it is important to have a material but also a psychological basis for building life through a job of training or employment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, economic researchers have been expecting a fall in unemployment for the first time since 1994 for the first time in 1999. So we can see that efforts to create new jobs have been worthwhile! [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I do not wish to present just the positive pages here. Of course, there are still tasks and challenges that need to be taken up and solved. In particular, we will have two ways of achieving success, as I believe: on the one hand, an active labour market policy, through which we will promote in particular the skills of job-seekers according to the demand of the economy. The National Employment Action Plan has provided for a number of initiatives, including the necessary additional money. The other way is to further stimulate a robust growth of the economy itself. Agitated by exports and rising domestic demand, the economy is already rising to a relatively high level this year. The growth of our economy was 2.5 percent in the previous year. It is expected to be 3 percent this year, and for the coming year a further growth of 3.2 percent is forecast. Export growth will be around 10 percent in real terms this year and next year and will be higher than import growth, which will also significantly relieve Austria's trade and current account balance. Equipment investment is growing significantly, and a trend change can also be seen in travel. The inflation rate will continue to remain at a historically low level thanks to stability policy. These, ladies and gentlemen, are also those conditions which guarantee the exact implementation of the 1999 budget, which you decided here a few weeks ago. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As you know, the result will be 2.6 percent of the gross domestic product. Public debt will continue to fall below 65 percent in the coming year. Since 1995, when the federal deficit was 5.2 percent and public debt was close to 70 percent, this has achieved a sustainable improvement in the financial situation of public budgets. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The basis for this success was the consolidation programme. Not least, it has also found acceptance by its balanced distribution of necessary measures – despite some painful steps. And it has also succeeded in holding back negative effects on growth and employment to the most extent possible. Another feature of this programme is that it has not exhausted itself in short-term and only once effective measures, but has set a significant course for structural reforms. The success of this programme must now be further built on, for a number of good reasons, of which I would like to mention three: First: The cost of interest and fees of the federal financial debt will continue to be over 100 billion schilling annually. Budget consolidation is therefore also necessary in the future in order to make more money available for other more productive tasks. Secondly, Austria has committed itself to the Stability and Growth Pact that has already been discussed. In order to avoid exceeding the deficit limit even in more economicly poor years, the safety upholstery under the 3-percent mark must be sufficiently large. Thirdly, The rapidly changing social and economic conditions also require the adaptation of public services to changing needs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The increasing international competition makes the quality of public services an increasingly important location factor. That is to say, we must continue to strive to reduce the end of public budgets in Austria – a measure that is unanimously recommended to us by many well-known international institutions, not least by the International Monetary Fund, and an approach to which the agreements in the European Union, in the interest of the stability of the future European Economic and Monetary Area, are also meaningful. One important aspect, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to highlight in particular is the increased need for financial policy coordination in our own country, i.e. between local authorities. For the target sizes for public budgets at European level apply to the general state, so they are not only formulated for the federal government alone. Against this background, the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities have already worked together successfully so far and have now agreed on a consultation mechanism at the political level. The aim is to prevent laws or regulations of one local authority from burdening another against their will. What is still missing is a Stability Pact, which internally divides the deficit and debt ratios between the local authorities. This will be negotiated in autumn – I assume. In general, I believe that this is very important, it will be even more important in the future than in the past, that all public budgets should follow the principles of economic, efficient and effective budgetary management in order to ensure that Austria can sufficiently perceive its opportunities in the framework of the European partnership. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to point out now that the negotiations on the financial compensation for the period after the turn of the millennium, i.e. from 2001, must be marked by this principle of overall responsibility for the finances of the general state. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996/1997 consolidation programme saved government expenditure on the one hand, and, of course, revenue increased. This is also reflected in the slightly increased tax and tax rate, although I must stress that more than half of this quota does not benefit the Federal Government, but rather the countries and municipalities, and above all also social security schemes and, to a small extent, the European Union. So what has sometimes been heard in recent weeks, namely that taxpayers would work almost half of their time for the Minister of Finance, is not true. The citizens work for themselves. They work for themselves and for their quality of life. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – I am convinced that you will say this from the speaker’s desk, and then I can comment on it. I don't understand you now. For example, citizens will not even be able to finance an international educational system with their taxes and taxes – for example – that will not even challenge you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They finance a social security system that guarantees them good care in the event of unemployment, accident or illness. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They finance a pension scheme that is one of the best in the world. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In no other country is there such generous support for families and as good care for people in need of care as we do in Austria. And we confess to that. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Security in our country is also far higher than elsewhere. The federal states also offer very generous housing promotion systems. Another thing, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Especially when you come to other European cities, you can see – and this is very positive – that Austria's cities and communities are beautiful, clean and worth living thanks to the well-functioning local services. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] All these advantages together form important location factors for Austria. I do not know why you laugh when I say that the cities are safe and exemplary. This is not funny at all, but a fact, a statement that we can be proud of in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In Austria, no one, neither in Vienna nor elsewhere, needs to be afraid when he walks in the evening, as is the case in other cities of Europe, even in the European capital Brussels. I would like to point this out in detail. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That can't be discussed away, even if it doesn't fit you. And this is also a result of the policy for which this federal government stands. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am not saying all of this because of self-indulgence, but that is the facts. I am saying this because any change in government revenue will naturally have an impact on the performance side. Any structural reform must therefore also be based on serious and precise considerations. This is very important when it comes to a change in tax policy. I say once again, so that no mistake arises, what I have said several times here in this House: The Austrian Federal Government is preparing a smart, balanced tax reform for the year 2000. Austria's best experts in this field are currently testing without delay, where changes are necessary and appropriate for material reasons. It is a complex project which must meet several objectives. On the one hand, we are striving for a more environmentally friendly distribution of the tax burden. This is to be achieved by reducing the burden on labour and increasing the burden on resource consumption. The discharge of the labour factor is an objective that is being pursued throughout Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the other hand, the political scope of the public authorities must be ensured so that our comprehensive and exemplary system of social security, investment and employment policy, security and education policy can be ensured in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We must therefore address this tax reform with great responsibility for the stability of public budgets, but also for the whole development in our country. We have already taken a first step towards this reform with the Family Tax Reform. In this context, however, it was also to be heard that we were a little too generous. That is why I am calling for a major, structural-political and budgetary reform. What I certainly do not want – and I am saying this quite clearly – is a tax reform of the good hope, at the end of which a savings package number 3 should stand. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To think only about tax reductions would therefore be completely inadequate and one-sided. In the interests of the development and justice of our tax system, we must take a step further and deal much more with the question of a reasonable and fair distribution of taxes in our country and in our society. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This includes both the aspect of tax reductions and employment on the question of how the level of taxation can influence developments in our society. In the sense of the joint responsibility of the Federal Government, the countries and the municipalities, the taxes in their area will also be included by the Tax Reform Commission and the discussion on the new financial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I would like to return to the interplay of economic policy within the framework of the responsibilities of the Member States of the European Union and of policies at Community level. We are just a few months before the start of the third stage of economic and monetary union. The new single European currency opens up enormous economic opportunities and opportunities. It will remove the internal market from fluctuations in exchange rates in the future. Calculated economic conditions are an important basis for greater investment, growth and employment. Competition within Europe is thus becoming fairer and more transparent. An essential area, which is important for the functioning of the Union as a whole and the internal market, is therefore also the coordination of Member States' tax policies and thus the fight against harmful tax competition. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Tax policy is an instrument of location policy. It also works with unfair means. On the one hand, we must, in particular, counteract the harmful tax competition affecting the fiscal efficiency of national tax systems and, on the other hand, the performance of public budgets, on the other hand, we must reduce the taxation of the real factors of production, at the expense of others, such as capital and energy, if we want to achieve that the economy in Europe does not grow unilaterally, without employment, and that growth does not sacrifice social security systems. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen! Austria's economy is on a robust growth path. We will achieve growth rates this year and next year as last in the high economy ten years ago. Development is also similar in other EU countries. Today, an EU economic growth of 2.8 percent and a 3 percent in 1999 is expected. This is more than the US, Japan and OECD can expect. "Europe is back." – Austria is back, so an American newspaper has recently had to admit jealously. The Federal Government's economic report, which I am allowed to present to you today together with my colleague, Mr Farnleitner, contains a comprehensive and, like me, impressive understanding of our economic and economic performance in the past year and also gives an outlook on the challenges ahead of us. I'm convinced that I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, Austria as a whole has an excellent basis for a good path towards an economically successful and socially secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e3437	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has also informed in writing that he wishes to make a statement. – Mr Federal Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e3462	Mr President. High house! After the day of celebration on the occasion of the presidency's adoption, it is now about asking and defining in the European Union – as my honourable previous speaker has said – what the new European framework conditions for the design of economic policy in the coming years mean. In particular, in the debate on the question of what is to be done in Brussels, in the countries and regions, it should not be overlooked that today the Europe of the 15 is a system of highly different countries, not only of different cultures but also of completely different economic dynamics. In recent years, especially since we have been doing this; this is always to be underlined – two new instruments have been increasingly introduced into economic policy; these English expressions have become standard: Best practices and benchmarking. It is crucial that many countries have tried in a very different way to deal with the problems of the same type in all countries, and it is only logical that it is therefore tried to compare the best recipe and perhaps to apply it itself. This is a dimension of European economic policy that will become more important in the next few years. This can be achieved by drawing regular comparisons between policies, such as, for the first time, in the field of employment policy, the Vienna Summit on the evaluation of the National Action Plans for Employment. If we consistently benefit from this instrument and ask ourselves less who does what when, then we will have to enrich economic policy in the European area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] High house! Especially at a time when more and more international analyses are asking themselves the questions when and under what circumstances it could be possible not only to limit the Asian crisis but to turn it back into a growth process, it is necessary to ask the question of the quality of the European Union's location. I would like to tell you here that, in my view, Europe is regularly undervalued in the international comparison. If we compare the economic indicators of the economic areas, it becomes clear that the best regional economic area of those Western Europe is. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the United States, Western Europe has a huge trade balance, a surplus of 169 billion US dollars in 1997, and a current account surplus of 125 billion US dollars. In comparison: USA: minus 198 billion dollars or 166 billion dollars. We should therefore not overlook the fact that the global economic location of Europe as a whole is favourable. This should enable us to deal more and more with the problems that are still pending in the face of a positive background. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is not only the economic area of Europe that is growing more than the other economic areas, but we have to do with the lucky fact that we live on the edge of a growth region in the northern and eastern neighbouring countries. In this area, where about 100 million people live, in the next few years, especially by means of the financial assistance that the European Union will provide in this area – in the Agenda 2000 something like a Marshall plan, aid in the double level – growth rates between 4 and 6 percent will be established, from which Austria will benefit in a special way through its extremely dense economic interdependence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In addition, the improvement of economic development in Germany is also an important point for us, because – I said this on other occasions in Munich –: If Bayern is fine, Austria is better. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we ask who will be part of the next few years, it is against this background that we can assume that we are going into a European age, but not in one dominated by markets, as we have read in literature many years ago. Let's come to ourselves! Ladies and gentlemen! The amazing development in the international comparison, presented by Mr Edlinger, first and foremost, as well as the economic research institutes, leads us to a particularly dynamic growth process in the export industry. I said from this point of view two years ago that we need a single market offensive in export because we have the biggest trade deficit with countries of the European Union. The figures you see in my report speak volumes: Austria's external trade with or delivered to the internal market has increased more than the internal market deliveries from other countries, i.e. by 13 percent in 1997, and we have also recorded a 10 percent increase in the first quarter of this year. In terms of the trade balance, this means that in 1997 we were able to improve the trade balance in the European area, i.e. in the EU, by 11 billion schilling and by a further 4 billion shillings in the first three months of this year alone. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That means: Austria's economy is increasingly aware of the opportunities of the internal market, and we should do everything we can to improve it through the framework of the European internal market. Ladies and gentlemen! A particularly encouraging result is the external trade with Eastern Europe. Austria's link with these parts of the world is the highest of OECD. In the export sector – we have more than 17 percent market shares here – this also means that after an increase of almost 35 percent last year, we have a balance of payments of almost 40 billion schilling. This also makes it clear that in all discussions on future relations with these countries we have to deal with fears and expectations carefully. We still have much to gain in these countries in the next few years if the process continues as it appears. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me come to a general part of the assessment of the site Austria. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that after decades of economic policy activity, it is possible to say that Austria's economic enterprise today is faced with framework conditions that previous generations could only dream of. I recall that today, not least thanks to the euro, we are faced with a situation characterized by low inflation, very low interest rates, low corporate taxes and free market access to all neighbouring markets, while increasing innovation and flexibility are improving our location quality. Contrary to many unacquainted calls, the location of Austria in the debate of investors is far better than in the published opinion. I can say this from the experiences of the last days, but above all from the experience of the ABA, the Austrian Business Agency, a company in front of my ministry. We have had the best year of settlement in the last year for decades, and we have all the conditions in the first half of this year alone that we can re-establish investments and jobs in about the same size. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Especially in the last few days, a number of large investors have also been in my house to announce that they will be investing in Austria again and permanently. In concrete terms, this is about the new Mercedes Chrysler Group, about Magna Europe, which has clear plans to further deepen its current activities here in Austria and, above all, to greatly expand the field of research in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Under these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, economic policy debate must focus on the increasingly clear competitive advantage in the modern discussion of different social systems of the market economy, namely what is called the craft skills of the population. In future, the key factor in comparison with location quality is less promotion, less taxes, connection fees and the like, but the quality of employees. And that's the call to this house, too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me tell you, Mr President, an anecdote from the last few days. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I get my secretary?]] – Correspondence, colleague! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I'll get my secretary!]] If you want it. At an award ceremony, the Director-General of BMW International told us that the product produced in Austria during a large car race in the course of diesel engines was so good that the German competitive product was removed from the race by the head of this company after a few hours. He said he would have called the Director-General of the Competition Company the next day and told him: This was just because you do not drive with Austrian engines that have been made by Austrian experts. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The conclusion of this is as follows: The representative of another large Austrian company present at the same award ceremony – I can say here that it was Magna – then told him that one day before he had received a call from Germany with the order to develop a 2.5-liter diesel engine in Austria for the next race next year. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This example may show that this is perhaps more important than some comparisons of numbers. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The engine is made by liberal professionals!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But this does not change the fact that, when we talk about skills, we also need to talk about problems in our labour market. We, Mr Hostash, and I, have composed ourselves and have had to deal, above all, with the fact that about 40 per cent of the Austrian unemployed are constantly being taken up by the same workers. This means that a number of economic sectors are clearly outlining their cyclic fluctuations in the economy to the labour market. This also means that, in connection with our national employment plans, we also have to address some taboo issues of the labour market beyond traditional barriers, because what is happening there is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen! If we take lifelong learning seriously with continuous further qualification, we also have to deal with new instruments. I only remember the bonus malus system proposed by me elsewhere in the field of unemployment insurance. Some words on youth unemployment. In the field of youth unemployment, we have to deal with the phenomenon that, although a trend in apprenticeship training can be seen in the light of the fact that more people go to the apprenticeship market than to the educational schools, many of our existing apprenticeships are no longer the basis for a lifelong stay in these sectors due to the rapid technological change in the economy. Therefore, we – social partners such as the government – face the challenge of providing more basic knowledge in training and of promoting the willingness to continue lifelong education. From my point of view, it is therefore very positive that in the NAP, too, the social partners have come to know that two years of training can be achieved if it is ensured that the basis for further and higher qualifications is laid. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Hostasch and I have recently agreed to speed up the procedures for the recognition and enforcement of new occupations during a discussion with the social partners' secretary-generals over the next few months, and, secondly, we also discussed the need to ensure that there are sufficient companies ready to recruit these apprentices in each new profession. Synthetic teaching does not bring any advantage. You will see that in the next few weeks we will be implementing 16 more new occupations, especially new careers in the direction of new technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point: Technology policy. If skills and innovation, as this means, are the decisive factors of competition, then there must be one to think of when, like Loch Ness, Austria is constantly publishing the concept of the research gap just before the summer season. In the next few days, a Technology Promotion Act - Mr One, and I am responsible for it - is going to be reviewed, as well as a Steering Committee for the Coordination of the relevant Ministries and, finally, a Fund, called KIR, will be set up new funding for government innovation and technology. It has been very often discussed here in this House that more needs to be done. Yes, more will happen, but only if we have more companies, especially large companies that are researching in this country. One of the priorities of my house is therefore to agree with all major investors in Austria that they may either start or strengthen research activities. That's from General Motors to Chrysler, as I called it to you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, it is also important to facilitate access to technological innovation to small and medium-sized enterprises through advisory institutions, such as BIT in the field of the Chambers of Commerce and Ministries. For financing: Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days, it has been ensured that the FFF which I am responsible for will receive an extra 470 million schilling from the budget as well as funds from my house, so that he can expect another grant of 630 million schilling this year. In addition, Mr Edlinger and I have agreed to equip the fund with a liability framework of 2 billion schilling. This means that there are no financial problems here and that 16 per cent of the demand can be covered entirely and without difficulties. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In this context, let me once again clean up with another Mar. It is common to always measure Austria's research performance by how many patents are applied for per capita. Here we are not at the top of Europe. But in a discussion of the relevant European experts, we have come to the conclusion that the potential of innovation must be measured by two criteria: the number of patents and the number of patterns of use applied for, because the utility models are those that are most rapidly implemented on the market. If one takes the number of patents and utility models, Austria is clearly at the forefront of Sweden and France in Europe. I take this opportunity to present this perspective to you. We are willing to explain this once in internal discussions with representatives of the clubs by gentlemen of the Patent Office and my experts, so that we may perhaps reach a clear consensus. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A permanent discussion in this country is: Are the entrepreneurs going out, or do we have enough companies? It's perfectly clear, we have a lower self-employed rate. And if we want to increase the rate of self-employed in Austria, this is not to do with government apples or support programmes alone, but it is also about removing mental barriers established for decades. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] From my experience I can tell you that many of the Austrian new entrepreneurs are actually older people. It is true that in Austria we have four categories of new entrepreneurs. We have entrepreneurs from vocation – this will in any case become entrepreneurs, even if it has failed twice before. We have entrepreneurs from Force – these are many older people, as they were 50, 55 years old, in the early sixties, who are praised in their occupations from the companies with large executions and then are independent as a business consultant or service contractor and are sponsored by the companies for another, two years with orders. But we also have relatively many entrepreneurs from despair – for example, when the unemployed have tried over years to integrate into the labour market and as the last step towards self-employment. This evening, when awarding the State Employment Prize, we have indeed found it very proud that there are unemployed companies, cooperatives, such as the Steyrer initiatives, which in a few years have become real local growth companies. If we could once bring this message, one must not become entrepreneurs out of despair or hopelessness in Austria, especially with entrepreneurship teachers at universities, this would be a great breakthrough. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... the negligent Krida should leave! That's a problem!]] - I'm still coming to talk. High house! There are two things that appear to be a necessity. First point: We know from a certain source that every second apprentice, male or female sex, dreams of becoming independent. And according to universities, it is 2 to 4 percent of university graduates who play with the thought of independence. That's our problem number one. We also need to get the Entrepreneur Dral from above, from the upper level of education. Second point: It would be an error not to talk in this speech about insolvency rates in Austria too. Any growing economy, especially in structural change, must have insolvency. The coming and going is part of the economic mechanism. This is why many insolvencys are happening in Austria, because there has always been a lack of capital. The bankruptcys without mass are our Menetkel in Austria. A high insolvency rate can also be due to the fact that some young people have risked too much. But then it is said that this once-shearer does not keep him for a lifetime, but to let him try again if no conscious damage to competitors or customers has happened. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't criminalize!]] If we go into politics with these new approaches, we will have it easier. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of the priorities that we want to pursue in our presidency in the area of the EU is the field of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will organise a seminar with the ministers and international organisations and experts responsible for SMEs in Baden, and we will also organise a seminar with relevant EU representatives on tourism policy, which is taking place in these days. Once again, it is about not talking about the relocation of competences, but about what framework conditions we need. We expect, for example, the seminar in Baden on the medium-sized sector, that we can make it clear that a group Europe is not the answer to the question of employment policy, such as the question of tourism policy. It is important that most of the small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs find a framework with which they can live better. It is one of the most pressing experiences for me today that many new entrepreneurs complain, not about the traditional fees involved in the creation of a company, but from the first day on: I used to be a good salesman, and now I suddenly have to invest 20 percent or more of my time in filling out statistics, complicated pay bills or other related things. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, these things must be forced at European level – and that is what we have initiated – because they are the basis for success in this area: The bureaucratic tasks need to be reduced, less statistics would ensure more information. Simplification of all accounting areas must be implemented, including those which have been agreed upon. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A problem already arises in the area of European economic policy: We have the powerful ECOFIN Council of Ministers and the Euro Elf Council of Ministers, and we are wondering if we do not have too many Councils of Ministers in other areas. Therefore, in my presidency in the Single Market and in the Industrial Council of Ministers, I proposed to consider having these two Councils of Ministers meet together on the agenda "Europe" and to compete in the performance of ideas with our friends, the finance ministers. This could be an invigoration of the idea of not going to the alarm clock at the same ministerial councils. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on tourism. We have a clear trend in this area in Europe. But this does not change the fact that the most important point for sustainable development in Europe is the improvement of the ability of European citizens to stay. Therefore, the National Action Plans are, at the heart of the matter, also a programme for the promotion of tourism in Europe. Therefore, it is also important from this point of view to do so. In Austria itself, the forecasts show that we are again expected to see increasing sales. But this does not change our internal structural problems. Secondly, the liability framework, Mr Edlinger and I have agreed that 7 billion schillings will provide sufficient space for sustainable refinancing of tourism structures. I can also announce that with EU support we are planning a similar programme for commercial enterprises outside tourism, but only in the second half of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! Also the announced direct marketing activity of my house will begin these days. We have applications in their shells and abundance. I say on the verge: Those companies that we have been able to convince in recent months to carry out their market with the Internet show a high, far better utilization than anyone else in this area. We will have to admit more modernity and direct relationship between hotel and customer across the entire area of "Sale" in the tourism market in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few points. Two important areas of competitiveness have been regulated in Austria in recent months before there are better conditions in freedom. The first is the liberalisation of the Telekom market, which is already recognised by investors. With around 30 licenses, a marked decrease in costs can be seen for the companies that make use of the freedom. Second point: The liberalisation of the electricity sector is being observed, but capital markets and investors are also honoured, although difficult decisions are still to be made in the second half of the year – I only call Stranded costs, network fees – and implementing laws to be adopted. I announce, ladies and gentlemen, that this House will probably have to deal with the liberalisation of the gas market in the second half of the year. We have decided the EU directives, we will now bring in the Austrian law under the ElWOG. This would mean that, in the area of the increasingly important gas market, we are getting more competitive prices for Austrian investors. Under all these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, another factor remains to be discussed, namely that of public services. If skills, craft skills and the innovative power of a society are required, then this must not be overlooked. We see this in Asian development: The structural adjustment speed of our Eastern European neighbours is that of a car compared to what we see today in Asia. The Asian crisis is also partly an effect of the untimely adaptation of decisive structures. If, therefore, we are now saying that the public administration is of crucial importance under these conditions, it is important to generate motivation and commitment in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On this occasion, I would like to thank the district leaders who have managed to do 80 to 90 percent of the procedures in an incredible new service family with the new industrial order in a period of less than three months. We will extend the §-359b Regulation in these days, which clearly defines the procedures for which the simplified procedure cannot be applied, and thus the simplified procedure can be applied even more easily. One last point: It is hoped that they will be presented in autumn with the draft uniform plant rights so that we can also create this barrier, as announced. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, I would also like to thank all workers and entrepreneurs for their incredible work morale. Anyone who knows this country knows what our real advantage is. One last point: It has published an Austrian Merkantilist, Philipp Wilhelm von Hörnigk, in 1684 in Dresden a book entitled "Austria over everything, when only it wants". I think if he wrote the book today, he'd say: Austria about everything because it wants. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e3722	I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs for his statement. In the debate on both statements, the first Mr. Dr. Haider was given the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e3746	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The two reports we have to discuss today are very different. The Minister for Economic Affairs has given a very differentiated overview of Austrian economic reality, including self-critical comments on what to do. I believe that this is right, that it is also in line with the situation, because it cannot be so that, in view of the unresolved problems, one tries to create a world that looks different in reality. Only if you say in your presentation: Yes, we are aware that we must do something for the small and medium-sized economy, because there must not be a Europe of the corporations!, I wonder: Why don't you do it? Why don't you really do it? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When changing your final word: It is not an Austria that wants it to be a government that at last wants framework conditions to be created so that those who have moved the whole career as a mid-sized person can make regulations in the future, secure jobs and ensure the success of the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why, Minister of Economic Affairs, are you talking about a lack of capital and here in Parliament are refusing to accept decisions on improving the tax system? You are selling, for example, the so-called Leitel model, which we have already voted on, through your Upper Austrian Finance Council Dr. Leitel, that the profits you have not taken are tax-free, so that the industrial medium-sized economy can also create more jobs and get more investment, reject it here and stimulate it again. What is the Austrian supposed to think of a policy made by politicians who say that we know what we have to do, but we are not actually pleased to meet our commitments? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why are you talking, Minister of Economic Affairs, about limiting bureaucracy? A slim state – yes, a hundred percent consent from us! They themselves are President of the EU today, and then new bureaucratic difficulties for businesses come from the European Statistical Department. Such convoluts must be filled in! [[The speaker holds up a pack of paper.]] This is used to collect earnings. 11 500 establishments have to carry out a complicated earnings structure survey. This has just arrived at the establishments and costs a medium-sized person on average if he employs a tax advisor who helps him to fill in this nonsense between 15 000 S and 20 000 S if he is not willing to take a penalty. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Who prevents you from debureaucratizing by saying your own chambers: If the charges are abolished, the bureaucracy is eliminated in the chambers, the forbearance procedures are the most complicated nature!Unknown term type: "%s".? This would make it easier for young people and new entrepreneurs to make start-up investments. It's up to you! Just to regret that we have too much bureaucracy, but even as a competent person, we have nothing to do with it, just to regret that 42,000 people in Austria are busy doing free work for the state day and night, filling out statistics and carrying out bills, but to regret that 70 million unpaid hours of work – that is free work for the state! – in the year, that's not enough for me. We need concrete measures here, and I am now lacking them very slowly. Time and again it is only said what to do, but then nothing comes out! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since I have said that I like the fact that you, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, argued differently, I must say to the Minister of Finance that his presentation was simply exaggerated, shamelessly exaggerating. Mr Finanzminister! You have enchanted here a world that is not in reality present. There has been a great development in employment – 26 000 new jobs had been created last year. But tell them – and don't act like you don't know! – that most of these 26,000 jobs are part-time jobs! This means that those full-time jobs that have been destroyed by your policy are now compensated for by part-time jobs which are much worse, which bring much less income and make employees worse. This is simply the reality you need to deal with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Mr Finanzminister! They're going here saying we're the country with the lowest unemployment rate. And two days ago... [[Abg. Marizzi: What's true!]] The statistics can prove everything, Mr Cot. But two days ago, the newspaper "Die Presse", which is not hostile to this coalition, presupposed to you: If all those who have applied for a pension and fall out of unemployment statistics, all those who have been housed in employment funds, because they have been unemployed for a long time, all those who are sent to retirement early because of long unemployment, all young people who have never worked, because they have not received a job after school, then come If you do not reach 200 000 to 250 000 unemployed, you will find more than 600 000 unemployed people to receive from the State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Professor Novotny, that's what this is all about. Expenditure on unemployed people is, in fact, a challenge to create jobs and not to misinvestment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can give you a few examples, Mr Finance Minister, because you said employment works so well. Today the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' states that in this safety belt production of 730 jobs 400 are lost, moved to Eastern Europe. These are our "opportunity" that we use to talk about here. Within a week, almost 2,000 jobs have been lost in Austria, 400 being relocated from a Salzburg medium-sized enterprise to Eastern Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] - Be careful! They're for the part-time salesmen, I'm for the full-time family owners, because that's finally the vision we need. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] They criticize the Dutch model, but they really want to do it. We want the Austrian model: Full-time employment, permanent jobs, safe work for young people and for medium-sized people a responsible tax policy. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: And Mr. Prinzhorn has a farm in Hungary!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ten Years Promise You do, ten years don't happen! – Go, Mr Marizzi, take care of your mafia problems, and please leave us here with these things in peace! [[Abg. Marizzi: He's got a farm in Hungary, isn't he?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Within a week, I would like to say this to Mr Koppler, but he is unable to listen to it, almost 2,000 jobs have been lost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] In Salzburg that mentioned 400. After the merger with the ERA building, the Illbau Group has declared 1 000 terminations. ==References== In June, Panalpina – which locks out in Austria at all at all – left 570 jobs, namely qualified jobs. The company Leykam locks two machines, all the employees who worked on these machines have been terminated. Or: As part of the early warning system, Koflach announces 150 other employees to cancel. These are, ladies and gentlemen, almost 2,000 jobs lost within a week. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Call the new jobs too!]] You can't stand here and say: Everything's great, everything's paletteti, we're going great in Austria! – You think that’s what you’re talking about. You say the time of celebration is over now. Yesterday, the conference of the Social and Labour Ministers and the Women's Ministers began. In reality, this is a pleasure meeting: of 72 hours of conference are six hours of actual conference time. The rest is leisure time with a visit to "Swarovski Kristallwelt" as well as a lunch with the Swarovski family. [[Abg. Marizzi: In Taiwan you have also been invited to dinner!]] There is also a cultural programme that provides a visit to Ambras Castle. The meeting itself will begin with a lunch. In the evening there are galadiners that last four hours. The Tyrolean government is giving a gala dinner so that the unemployed can rejoice. These Galadiners are apparently organized so that you can be together for 72 hours. The conference of all European Social Ministers: 72 hours in total, and basically they only have six hours to deal with the problems of unemployment and employment! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Does that really correspond to what you promised us, Minister of Finance? That's exactly the accusation of the opposition: They're celebrating instead of working. They therefore provoke all those who do not have work, who have problems with re-training. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Whoever has never brought orders does not know what that is!]] You say you've had great successes. – Why can you read in a newspaper today that the apprentices are already in front of closed doors? There are, in turn, 4,000 apprentices this year who cannot be accommodated. Their reaction to it is to "school them", to bring them into the schools. However, they are not offered jobs. This is not a real alternative! If you would use the money you use for courses, training and work foundations for a reasonable tax relief of training firms, you would have thousands more apprenticeships. Save You're doing this whole cinnamon you're doing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, these measures are exclusively a business for the WIFI. You need funding for your board, and for this reason the lack of apprenticeships is taken as an excuse to organize courses financed by the state instead of reducing the taxes on businesses so that they can recruit more apprentices. That would be the actual alternative! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But They think differently: The bureaucracy is more important to you than employment and flourishing businesses! [[Abg. Marizzi: This is "retorteneconomy"! That's what you're learning in America!]] Another point: You said you'd create new teaching professions. – Who will prevent you from accepting new fields of work in good time? For 15 years there has been the system gastronomy in Austria, to a considerable extent. Now, the system gastronomy authorities, from McDonalds to others active in this industry, have to straighten out the ministry and appeal to you: Finally, make a training order! We'll pick up a few hundred apprentices immediately, if we can train them too! – But it takes years for you to do something, and that’s the problem! [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: This takes three to four months!]] They are only now announcing this, with this problem for ten years and we have been having the problem of "missing apprenticeships" for three years. It would have been a long time to finally act. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the issue of economic promotion. They are concerned with economic promotion and are very much talking about the establishment of businesses with you. In the course of the previous year, ELSA, the world's largest personal computer manufacturer, would have wanted to build its European location in Austria. This operation has not even been given the necessary opportunities for its family members. Now this group has bought Siemens-Nixdorf. It would have been good for Austria if this group had its location in our country. But he was "sold out" by you. But they're talking about high technology. We could have these if the ministry had decided accordingly. Minister! They are talking about major research and industrial projects. Look Take a look at the EU project in Burgenland, the production of lyocell! Millions have been invested in this project. – But today the company is pleading because it had too little sales. 200 million schilling deficit in the first year! In Upper Austria 120 jobs of this company and 500 were ruined in the same group of companies. – This is a policy whose objective is missing and which simply does not fit in. That's why I'm telling you what you should do: Just set the conditions correctly! But you do not miss a change in tax policy. Mr Finanzminister, you say that employment is so good. Look You are looking at the dates for the month of June! In June, i.e. at the time of the high season, we recorded an increase in unemployment of 4.3 percent in Austria. [[Abg. Marizzi: We currently have the highest level of employment!]] For women, which is said to have created a large number of jobs – most jobs for women; 26 000, you have said, have increased unemployment by 6.1 percent. If you look at unemployment in the field of the construction industry, you will see that there is currently – in high summer please! – a new record of unemployment gives: 12 186 construction workers are currently unemployed. Where is the investment area of your budget? They are no longer in a position to do so because, while you are pursuing the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria, you are not pursuing economic policy, which is dynamic and which ultimately also offers employment opportunities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Over the course of ten years, there was an increase in unemployment by 100 percent during the high season of construction! Ten years ago, there were 6,700 unemployed in our country, and in June there were 12,900 unemployed. That's the reality! So you should not be colouring here, but do what you have been commissioned to do, namely create good conditions for the economy. They say that we have to make a tax reform that is wise and important that the tax race is stopped down. – This is said by the Minister of Finance of a state which is a leader in the tax rate. The tax race is supposed to stop down, you say. – Yes, start with the race! The other EU countries have long been ahead of us. Even the EU as a whole has a lower tax and tax rate than Austria! But you want to stop everything so that you can stay slow, bureaucratic and fiscal, so that you can continue to create billions that have actually earned the businesses. - Let the people earn! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let the people earn! That's what we want! For ten years now, we have been waiting for a tax reform in the field of the working people, the workers, the employees. They're affected by the cold progression. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We want a serious employment policy!]] Mr Novotny has the forehead to produce himself here and to say that he warns his party against reducing the wage tax. – Just warn your party! This shows the true face of the Social Democrats! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Novotny, we want a wage tax reduction, because those people in our country who work hard to earn something at last – and not have to deliver everything to the Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We demand a tax reform, and we believe that a tax reform would be a good contribution to restoring the necessary purchasing power in our country. These are the comments we would like to make on your beautiful reports: Finally act as it would be necessary – and do not try to lie yourself in your pocket!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4074	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. The clock is set to 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4096	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haider, just three brief remarks: I too wish to see a higher employment rate in Austria, but it is also a fact that the employment rate in Austria has an international top priority. That too must be recognized! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Not if it's exactly the EU's average!]] International excellence, please! You can't discuss these numbers away! Second comment: Mr Haider – I am sure that this also applies to the other Members of your group – you may not be aware of any work lunches either. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, yes, at the expense of the state!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Third comment: Those who demand investment from the State must also give the State the means to do so. I believe that this cannot be separated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Wifo economic test shows very clearly that the economy is very optimistic both in the current and in the future economic situation. The competitiveness of the Austrian economy continues to improve. Industrial unit labour costs fall by 2.9% compared to those of the main trading partners. Exports will rise by 10 percent both in 1998 and 1999. I see in these facts and figures quite a success report of the achievements of the Austrians and the foreign employees working in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, economic and economic policy must not be self-evident. The objective that we must set ourselves together must be that we should be better. However, I do not think that this objective can be shared. Although there are very positive assessments for the future by entrepreneurs and economic researchers, this is certainly not enough to address the employment problem. A liberal economic approach alone is not enough. It is also not enough to suggest that one should believe in the "forces of the market" because this will improve the employment situation already. It is often said enough: Trust in the forces of the market! [[Abg. May. Peter: The market is stronger than the bureaucracy!]] - I'm holding on: This confidence is not justified to any extent. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Considering what wage development and flexibility have brought in recent times, it is concluded that the economic situation has improved, but there are hardly any more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Farnleitner has said that we have macroeconomic conditions which entrepreneurs in previous years could only dream of. He's certainly right about that. But that's just the one side of the medal. In our country, hundreds of thousands of people dream of work, of future, of income. I believe that the realization of the desire to have more employment in our country must also be our objective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The need to improve the situation of unemployed young people and, above all, of long-term unemployed people is the challenge that must motivate us to do more for employment in the next few years, especially through the national employment plans. Ladies and gentlemen! We must deal with a trend which is also noticeable in our country: It increases long-term unemployment, it increases part-time employment – both the desired and the unwanted – and the number of minor employees is increasing and the number of temporary workers is increasing. I believe that the aim of full-time jobs must not be kept on track. In this context, I believe that the reduction of working time is an important issue, which is by no means already from the table. I believe that this should be addressed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But this is the wrong way!]] You can discuss this for a long time. Examples in France and Italy show that this can also be seen differently. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In particular, we must stimulate domestic demand. This is not only a trade union or a social democratic statement, but also economic research in its annual reports says that the stability of Austrian economic development has to be achieved mainly by domestic demand. The situation in the construction industry has rightly been criticized. The construction industry will develop positively especially if we do not prevent the use of new infrastructure projects. We can see that we are discussing infrastructure projects too long, often blocking them, instead of implementing them as quickly as possible. It is necessary to implement the infrastructure programmes created in order to strengthen the backbone for the further development of the economy in the near future. It is a fact that the introduction and non-realization of programmes will bring the future of the Austrian economy, but also of our country as a whole, to a different light. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Farnleitner pointed out the reception network, the foundations and the courses related to apprenticeship training and said that they were not allowed to constitute a barrier to the apprenticeship system or to replace it. I agree with him a hundred percent. But the simplest way – I think we both agree in this – would be if the economy itself provided sufficient teaching places. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There must be the conditions!]] In this case, we don't need that at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is really necessary to think about new professions. However, we should also consider whether too early specialization is actually in the interest of young people. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the short period of time, I would just like to say one more thing here, but this is very clear: We believe that a wage tax reform in 2000 is essential. This is in line with the demands of employees. We have made a very clear contribution through the savings package to the correction of state finances. But I think there is still a lot open on the business side. In this context, I would like to point out that, for example, the truck toll is one of the programmes that we have not yet implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the differences between income-related taxes and wealth tax, we are convinced that more than ever a change in our tax system is justified in order to achieve an equivalent and above all fair distribution of tax revenue. The labour factor must be reduced by taxes, without endangering social networks. In my opinion, the labour factor is quite relieving by a number of possibilities, such as the reduction of wage-dependent taxes, the taxation of speculation gains or the simultaneous introduction of value added tax. [[Abg. Meisinger: The load packages are supposed to be gone!]] We will see how we can discuss these opportunities together. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in the future, the draft European Economic Report and the 1999 Economic Guidelines will have to establish that price stability and fiscal consolidation are in the foreground again, then it will be up to Parliamentarians to take account of employment accordingly. I would like to take up the word 'employment dividends'. We need an employment dividend as an initiative for more employment – not only in Austria, but at all in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic reports are rightly optimistic, but they must not be unilaterally optimistic. We also need an optimistic future for those who want to look for work and work.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4265	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4286	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! He who has followed the report of the two Federal Ministers had to come to the conviction that there was jubilation, for it said: The economy is growing with 3 percent real – my compliment! – the incomes are growing in real terms, employment is developing positively – although unemployment continues to rise – exports are growing double-digitally, private consumption is rising again – that is very important for employment in the service sector – society is stable, euro convergence criteria have been reached, the Stability Pact will require further budgetary discipline, and EU enlargement is at the door, so that we can expect further markets. Ladies and gentlemen! Rejoicing is yours, but in view of the unemployment in our country, we are asking opposition politicians if there is a genuine jubilation. The question should rather be: What must be done? So you have to ask yourself the question: Is it really jubilant? Have we secured the success for the future? I would like to define the task of an oppositionist differently than it here by Dr. Haider, who has put the punctual scandalization in the foreground, was made in the usual way. Of course, this too can be understood as an opposition policy. . I think we should look at our tasks rather than analyse structural defects, warn against misdevelopments, or make better proposals accordingly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This includes labour market problems!]] On the basis of the case law, the great deficit, which the gentlemen at the government bank in our country know, is that we do not face any real acceleration of the reform with accelerated change. The main priorities from a liberal point of view are: The social and economic conditions that you give to this society in your government responsibility, in which you stand, are still largely related to an industrial society. They're stuck there. However, we are increasingly in a knowledge and information society with an unheard-of pace of change. The social partners do not take this into account, but they inhibit it. Just think of the misguided discussion about the crown dispute between dentists and social security schemes, with regard to 55. ASVG-Novelle from your unproductive dispute have prevented important reform steps from changing! Think, moreover, of the blocking attitude of the Chamber of Commerce on the subject of liberalisation of trade regulations! Think of the blocking attitude of the Social Democrats or the Chamber of Workers in the abolition of the regulation of the working world! – The essential point is therefore: The change in this country is much faster than you, the political groups of the Federal Government, are able to implement reforms. The basis for long-term economic success – I am firmly convinced – is solidarity in civil society. The social network is and remains the biggest contribution to the political culture, but this social network is increasingly no longer manageable. The social network charges rise by 1 per cent each year faster than the other taxes in our country. So you're going up disproportionately, and that's what happens to the... [[Abg. The businessmen are responsible for amending the 55. ASVG-Novelle or not?]] It is very specific that what you have developed on the social network in recent years has led to more and more cost increases affecting the long-term economic location of Austria. That's the real problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You have financed the social network, Mr Vergestnitsch, on pump. You know that. Her Minister of Finance makes 70 billion schilling net debt this year – with a 3 percent real economic growth. This money is not spent in investment but is used to finance social benefits. This means that the social benefits of 1998 will be financed at the expense of the future of the next generation. [[Abg. The entrepreneurs also want the 55. ASVG-Novelle – isn't it?]] It's not about entrepreneurs! Mr Vergestnich, I regret that you still have your old picture: say the entrepreneurs – since the workers have ahead of you. Don't you understand what's happening in this world? The terms "self-employment" and "individuality" are increasingly blurring. [[New call for tender of the Abg. I don't know.]] Social security, which extends both to entrepreneurs and to self-employed persons, has become too expensive in the way you want to guarantee them, it is constantly encroaching on the economic location of Austria, and that is the problem. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unemployment in Austria – as Dr. Haider rightly pointed out – is of course not comparable with the number you offer. You all know that. They have better 'parked' unemployment in Austria; that is true. At the same time, however, you have overcome a problem with the provision of pensions to which you do not know an answer. This also increasingly limits Austria's economic location, because this means that a further growth spiral is included in the financing of the social network. In your pension system, you will now only implement one-sixth of the measures proposed by Rürup – from 2003 onwards. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! Mr. Federal Minister! They know quite well that according to demographic forecasts in 2030, the number of people under 20 years of age and over 60 years of age will be higher than the number of people between 20 and 60 years of age. The proportion of those persons in work and working life who finance the social network with their contributions will be smaller than those who are in training or retirement. These are the things that concern me as far as Austria's economic location is concerned – despite the successes that economic data show, and which we thank God, in the European economy, can generate for our country. The horizon of the changeover in pensions takes one generation. The year 2030 is thus much closer than you believe. Ladies and gentlemen! In your two reports on the economic situation of Austria, you have found no answer regarding a redefinition of work. Although they are always talking about a uniform worker concept, they mean only workers and employees. Why don't you also mean post, train and public officials? Why don't you get these too? Why did you decide yesterday on the complete nonsense of a post-business constitution law? [[Abg. Predestination: Before yesterday!]] – Before yesterday; thank you, Mr Vergestnich, you were very attentive – that is completely absurd! If you're talking about a common employee concept, you'll live it! Don't just tell us about it every day, but realize it! [[Abg. Marizzi: Take steps!]] Mr Marizzi, on your steps I would just like to say so much: As slow as you go forward, I can't go backwards at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, there is no approximation of the protected areas with the competitive economy. We have experienced this yesterday on the occasion of the dissemination of the Bundessportheime, where you have written in the general part of the explanations that the protected area is not at all able to operate a farm. That was the content of your general explanations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] The boundaries between self-employed and self-employed are floating. Did you not understand that your separation: here the "evil" entrepreneurs, there the "poor" workers is the social democratic doctrine of pre-, pre-, pre--, pre-existing. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] ==References====External links== May pasted in Vienna: "More Entrepreneurs for Vienna!" – Admit yourself to this and make a policy that leads to more entrepreneurs! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smolle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was no opinion from the two ministers on the fact that employment and social work are increasingly interconnected and that the concept of working is to be redefined. They have not spoken a word to that effect. The paid employment is one thing that is socially viable, which does not appear in gross social product, is another, one that ultimately constitutes the quality of life of our society. You did not talk about your control over unregistered work. There is too little registered work and too much unregistered work. It must have to do with the framework conditions you have created that the "fuch" that black work is increasing dramatically in Austria. You won't be able to fight with police action. They will not be able to train unemployed workers as new sheriffs. You, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, and the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank will have to break their heads on how the working conditions must look in order to make the registered work more attractive and unregistered work less attractive. I am now referring to the topic of "new independence". Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! They all want more new self-employed, even the Social Democrats have this on 1st. ==References====External links== But what are you doing for it? Today, due to a hard structural change, we experience the highest number of insolvencys that have ever occurred in our country. Not according to the volume, but according to the number, we will unfortunately reach an all-time high. This has to do with many mistakes, but above all with the question of a structural capitalization and the return, the income of enterprises. The small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria do not deserve enough because they are burdened at too high a cost. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want more new independence, you need to clear the way and not build it up to the potential of independence, which in Austria is thanks to God. Where are the steps of liberalisation announced by you in the field of trade regulations, shop opening times and change from regulation to the principle of responsibility? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] Dear Dr. Heindl! This is the language of the possessor who says: Leave me alone, I have everything I need! – But I am speaking for those who do not want to become independent, who want to make the way into self-employment, but who cannot do so because of the obstacle course in the framework conditions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Through the education system, thanks be to God some remark from the two Federal Ministers. I believe that the education system is the real basis for economic success. It is carried by good and thank God also by many committed educators. But can Are you telling me where the educational system you are responsible for as government parties is also the quietest hint of an approach of independence? Can you explain to me how, for example, pragmatized geography teachers should teach independence? Can you call me a single teaching subject, in which self-employment is taught as a philosophy and a way of life? At the University of Economics, which is 100 years old in Austria this year, there was no single seminar until the winter semester of 1998/1999, which offers instruction on the way to independence. It will be Professor Risak who will organize the first seminars in this direction. Our country is not a country for self-employed, but it is a country of pragmatic officials! But you need to get rid of this thinking mentally, and you'll probably only be able to do this about education. I remember with some horror what was said when we discussed the issue of economic developments prior to the month. The university professors coming from the protected areas spoke with a certain degree of superiority about the pity of the trader. Ladies and gentlemen, university professors! You don't even know what that is. You really don't have the right to talk about it. It is unbearable to show such superiority and to treat it as "pity" if those who operate the economy tell you that under the given conditions they can only be very difficult to succeed. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and the Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Haigermoser]] I know now the university professors are looking affected because you're so right. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Professor Lukesch is an excellent professor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a naughtiness, Mr. Peter,...!]] [[Call:The pity is the greeting of merchants]] The regret is not the greeting of the merchants, but the clear formulation of the small and medium-sized enterprises or self-employed, who use them in this country to be more successful, but which you provide with framework conditions under which they cannot succeed. That's the point! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Our education system is still under arrest for the verifiable knowledge. That is exactly what we do not need in a culture of new independence. The culture of new independence will require team ability, criticism and curiosity. This is the basis we need to have more entrepreneurs in our country. Where is the corresponding class? – Minister of Economic Affairs! You're not a minister of education, but I'm telling you: In educational work, it should be a priority to act on a somewhat traditional education system and to inform these new criteria of independence. As far as youth employment is concerned, I can only congratulate you on doing so. In contrast to unemployment as a whole, which is not comparable to your statements, you are successful in this area. But at what price? – Even here, you try to create youth employment by covering the problem of money without reform. That's what they did in 1997, you'll try it in the summer of 1998: once with 2 billion schilling, this year with 1.8 billion schilling. Mr Feurstein, why do you not have the courage to undergo the teaching of a real reform and to integrate it into secondary education as an equal pillar?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Why don't you have the courage to separate between business and school time? Why are you unable to carry out the dual training in a new form by using, instead of money, reforms and, instead, word mountains, new structures and changing over "well-appointed rights"? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: In my view, the answers given by the Federal Government to the problems of the knowledge and information society are insufficient. The answer – this is our liberal view – is to strengthen the individual in two ways: on the one hand, to strengthen the individual by transferring more responsibility by deregulation, on the other hand to strengthen the individual through sustainable security by means of basic security, which we Liberals have already proposed several times. They will have to go the way of duality between sustainable human security and a greater responsibility of the individual. Sustainable security is the basis for more responsibility, and more responsibility implies sustainable security. Ladies and gentlemen! The basis for the economic success is not in the statistics, but it takes place in the many households and in the many business economies in our country. I would just like to recall what Churchill once formulated so aptly: Entrepreneurs can be regarded as raw dogs that have to be killed. Perhaps they are also the cows you have to milk all the time – but perhaps you finally understand that they are the donkeys that pull the cart.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4508	The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. He's got the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4530	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Peter, you have said a lot of things that can be underlined, but also a lot of things that I do not think is right. With regard to liberalisation of the trade system, I would be pleased if you would recognise that the number of trade subject to authorisation has been halved. But that is certainly not enough for you – I know that – because you represent the American system and believe that we need no more order at all. However, I do not accept the following: Take a look at how many compensation processes are carried out in America – not only to the detriment of economic operators but also to the detriment of consumers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs have, in their well-balanced contributions and reports, tried to show the successful path of the Austrian economy, but also the necessary efforts that we still have to make. In particular, they stressed the high importance of the export economy and also that of research and development. The technology and export offensive has also been mentioned for a year and a half. To this end, I must say: The Austrian economy would have expected more concrete action by the government and, above all, more innovation in the technology sector. Ladies and gentlemen! The Chamber of Commerce has been able to score for a long time with its external economic organisation on the export offensive – I have done this in particular. Exports mean jobs, economic growth and prosperity in our country. In recent years in particular, we have achieved some success with the many powerful small and medium-sized enterprises because we have tried to encourage them to export. We have also offered concrete assistance. It is known that almost every second job in Austria is and falls with the success of the export. The more we export and the more foreign guests – certainly domestic – make a holiday in our country, the better the businesses and the more work there is in Austria. Mr Haider has said from this point of view that 4,000 apprentices are already looking for a training place. It must be remembered that only a week ago the school was completed and that these school leavers cannot be used from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Maybe they don't want to be used immediately!]] I am convinced, however, that we will be even easier this year than in the previous year to introduce young people to training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I will return to the topic of "export". I think we need an even higher export rate, because this alone makes it possible to secure jobs and to create new ones. Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous year, Austrian goods could be sold abroad per minute at an equivalent value of 1.36 million schilling. That is a total of 715 billion schilling or almost one third of our gross domestic product. This is an important achievement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, our exports are not simply random in the previous year from one year to the other by total – now I may call the exact number – 16.8 percent increased. This is due to our targeted work that small and medium-sized enterprises are supported with our active support in their efforts and efforts to visit new markets and that they also arrive there with their services, their goods and their quality. The large farms were good pioneers, if I may say so, they have taken courage, and the small and medium-sized enterprises will increasingly push into export. I repeat that the trade delegates say that every year there are many new companies which have not been known before. I think that's a good sign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The engine of this export boom primarily represents the performance of our companies with their outstanding and skilled employees, but also the consistent activity of our foreign trade organization with 84 foreign trade agencies around the world, whose employees worldwide advise, inform and communicate Austrian companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The result of this increase in exports certainly also has a good impact on our economic data and on jobs. The economic researchers expect a further decrease in the trade deficit – the Minister of Economic Affairs has already pointed out – and it is to be said that a significant reduction has already been achieved in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic researchers say – and export forecasts also suggest this – that both 1998 and 1999 the number of employees will increase by 30 000 each. However, all of this must not be overlooked – and I say that quite clearly – that Austrian entrepreneurs in international competition have to fight with too high additional wage costs, with a far too high number of bureaucratic rules and with too little equity. This must, of course, be said at this point, if you want to make an honest balance. Of course, I do not agree with the president of the trade union when he says that the reduction of working time would also be important. [[Abg. It's an important tool!]] It definitely increases the incidental costs. All that increases additional labour costs should be avoided at present, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Vergestnitsch! France and Italy have been mentioned as examples in this context. In France, you start with this – you will only see how it will affect – and in Italy you will not start by much. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There the Communists have prevailed, in Italy! The Communists have extolled the government!]] There they just said: We'll do it! In the meantime, I have talked to several politicians in Italy who have said: Well, we'll see if we're going to get to it at all, that'll depend on how the economy is developing! I believe that this means of job creation is always a very questionable one, because I believe that only a strong economy which is internationally proven to be capable of securing jobs and creating new ones. But there's a different opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] High house! The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has completed the report "Pro Export". I can give it to you at the end of my speech first of all to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance; All of you will find this export report in your subjects. Here you can read exactly what has happened in recent years and how the situation of the Austrian economy is on the individual continents, in the regions and countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any event, this report demonstrates the accuracy of the considerations regarding our permanent export activities. It also provides an objective overview of the developments of the last years of all continents. It makes it very clear that it is not enough to talk about exports, but that concrete measures must be taken to ensure that such benefits are achieved. For example, in this report, you will read that about 12,000 contacts are held each year. Every month, this means 1,000 discussions, which, throughout the world, deal with the topic of export and support for the Austrian economy in foreign markets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also 125 international events, trade fairs designed by the Chamber of Commerce. This means about ten events per month, each involving Austrian companies in a smaller or larger group. These are the numbers that lead to success. Ladies and gentlemen! Much is also being said about EU enlargement in these days. I know that a majority of our citizens are more than skeptical of these efforts. But I must also report that we have been particularly successful and particularly successful in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe affected. In the previous year, these countries of Central and Eastern Europe already accounted for 17.6 percent of all Austrian exports. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is proof that we only need EU Easter enlargement in 50 years!]] That was only about 11 percent in 1990, which is a strong increase. This export has increased by more than 70 percent. Awareness You ask that it was also the export increase in the so-called reform countries of Europe, that is to say to our "old neighbours", if I may say so, that made it easier for us to jump into the European Economic and Monetary Union through these successes. Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not want to deny the difficulties that exist, of course, this is a huge project, but with targeted preparation and with the support of the border regions affected by it and, of course, with an appropriate timetable, I believe that this great task can be a positive one, for the benefit of the Austrian economy and therefore of Austrian society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have also said that exports are a guarantee of growth. That is why we need the Austrian export companies in addition to export aid, but I also need a little more financial support from the state, especially in the initial phase. In conversations I have in small and medium-sized enterprises, I always get to hear: We like to go, but the first step is so difficult, we need a little support! – In this respect, I would like to continue my discussions. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I appeal to the Federal Government to support the export efforts of Austrian companies even more so as to be able to implement our main concern, namely the creation and protection of jobs, and thus also the safeguarding of our social foundations, in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4680	I call Mr Van der Bellen. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4702	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The presentation of the economic report has at least two things in common with Christmas: The first is that there is always a great deal of incense from the government parties and that the opposition parties are more or less successful in venturing the fog that comes from it. The second is that the conduct of the competent Federal ministers always reminds me of the people who are overwhelmed before Christmas, who cannot and cannot get used to Christmas on 24 April. It's December. It has been customary for decades to present the economic report during the last July session. We received the report from Mr Farnleitner yesterday at 6.30 p.m. – thank you very much! – that of Minister Edlinger this morning. The fact that someone has looked into the economic report, which was only presented earlier today, will not be expected seriously. This is obviously the summer literature ahead of us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's something to look up!]] Minister Farnleitner! Of course, it is positive – and I am very glad that – that at last a number of new apprenticeships – I come to speak to the apprentices – have not only been invented by the social partners but also been blessed. What remains to be clarified is, of course, the quality of the old and the new professions, whether they meet the labour market requirements. It also concerns me again and again that women – in this case girls – are taking teaching professions that guarantee them low incomes for the future at least once. The choice of female apprentices is still not the choice of apprenticeships and, finally, one does not need to wonder – at least one of those factors that contribute – that women's income is less than that of men. Federal Minister! Their speech could give the impression that the situation in the dual training system has improved considerably. I can't see that she's gotten much better. If you look at today's edition of the "Kurier" – that is, 9th. July – who calls on data from the labour market service, can give faith, is confirmed in this opinion. It is true that the situation in the trend is somewhat better than it was in 1997: 500 places less are missing from the immediately available apprenticeships and 1 000 less for the non-instantly available apprenticeships. But this is little reassuring in the light of the fact that in 1997 many additional billions were allocated in this area and that many companies are waiting this year to get the same funds as in 1997. This drug has to be reweaned. Federal Minister! In your speech, I have also missed a word on the question of how much the state can do on the one hand – you have essentially concentrated on it, and that is also important and correct – and what is on the other hand with the companies. The attitude of apprenticeship training firms has changed clearly over the last five to ten years. In part – we have discussed this here already more often – one can also theoretically justify this. Nevertheless, the companies must not be released from this obligation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I had the pleasure of visiting the company Blum in Vorarlberg last week; a model case, you really have to say that. This is a family business with about 2,000 employees, if I remember quite well. This company has really installed an exemplary apprenticeship system, not only because high-tech training is offered, because it provides high productivity, but also because, apart from technical training on the computer and the state-of-the-art machines that this company has, it pursues a holistic concept and also promotes and includes social skills of apprentices: from speaking, language training to presenting itself and so on – all the skills that, as we know, are as important as the technical skills learned. This standard, which the company Blum has in Vorarlberg and which is known, is not the general standard of the companies in Austria. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is at the vocational schools!]] I don't know if this is just in vocational schools. [[Abg. May. Peter: Also!]] This is a second problem. Federal Minister Farnleitner! The fact that technology policy in Austria is suddenly a success, however, does not mean that you are serious to us. There are, you know, just as much as we all know, no technology billions that have been promised x-fold. We all know that the concept of the last year of the Director of the FWF, the Fund for the Promotion of Scientific Research, and the Director-General of Siemens has been slammed by politics and has not been realized. We all know that the competent committee of industry can basically only be kept close to the final sleep – not just sleep. I can only say, I'm excited about the new law you've announced here. But so far, this is one of the biggest mourning games in the almost past legislative period. I also do not understand your jubilation about the patent and innovation balance in Austria. I don't know how You have this data. Three days ago, on Monday, 6th. July, a long article on the technology situation in Austria has been published in the "Standard". The Wifo and Seibersdorf have jointly prepared the 1997 Technology Report, but this report for 1997 does not show any improvement, and that will not be completely different in 1998. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Go!]] Nor do the data agree in any way. Inclusion of utility models to and from – it can only be one of them, Mr. Federal Minister: either you who claim something else, or these two research institutes. No matter what one looks at: the R&D quota or the patent applications or the so-called technological balance of payments, which contrasts revenue and expenditure from trade in patents, licences and so on, there is nowhere to be seen a trend change – in any case, according to the report of these two research institutes. Federal Minister! A detail at the edge – perhaps if you wish to speak again, you could clarify a small point –: At the beginning of your speech, you said, among other things, that a paradigm change in economic policy is necessary – yes, we see it that way – and mention as an example that interest subsidies were a popular instrument of economic policy in the past. The FFF is experiencing the joyous originals. That is what you are talking about. Then: What are loan subsidies, as you call them, other than interest subsidies, except that they are in a languagely different form? It seems like a damn thing to me. We Greens agree with you on the importance, the particular importance of the new business start-ups, the young companies and so on. It has long been shown in international comparison that net new jobs are not created in industry but in young enterprises, especially in the field of commerce and services. There is the great dynamic to be found. You are right if you here repeatedly complain of the small proportion of the new creations in Austria. It may also be right to start teaching chairs for entrepreneurship, as you call it, in Austria, but one of these chairs will certainly not do, Minister of State, namely "carry on the hands of potential and future business founders". . That this should belong to the self-understanding of all those institutions dealing with young businesses, you do not seriously mean. I absolutely agree with the next half set where to read: optimal services such as advice and information – of course! But we're not going to wear them, they're supposed to be entrepreneurs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: We first need some reasons!]] I also miss a little indication of another vulnerability – a classical, typical Austrian vulnerability – in the area of the creation of young companies, namely the venture capital problem. The banks are obviously inappropriate to take over the role of financing newly created companies. This shows the experience to the satisfaction. Federal Minister Edlinger! You rightly pointed to the importance of tax harmonisation within the EU in the context of the EU Presidency, which I note positively here. This is a point in which we have repeatedly supported you for various reasons, particularly in the area of minimum harmonisation in the taxation of capital income and, as I believe, in corporate taxation. However, with my positive remarks I am almost at the end, Mr Edlinger, Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The speaking time is over anyway!]] - No, it's only the first ten minutes. I'm merciless now. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This isn't so bad with you!]] Hope you made yourself too early. Federal Minister Edlinger! It is always good what the Federal Government is doing, but what the opposition, no matter what group, is always bad: This is a wasteful game that is being driven here in this Parliament! A small example: How often have we called for the increase in resources for childcare facilities as a necessary but insufficient condition for the employment and equality of women? As far as I know, I made a request in December or January in the relevant committee. He was voted down without discussion. At most you can still learn privately: "What do you want? We don't have any money!" – That was all in this context. Three months later, the money was there, of course, and that's good and right because you decide. But I don't like to read all of this again in an economic report, because that's bad! But what is particularly annoyed, Mr Edlinger, is the fact that with Pathos, in the throes, you report the conviction of necessity or emphasize the need for any action and pretend that what would be necessary would be just happening, or that the Federal Government, called "effective" by you, would just be realized, although the opposite is the case. I think that's strong! On the question of the federal budget deficits, Mr Federal Minister, you say that we should continue to try to reduce the end of the public budgets in Austria – a measure that is unanimously recommended to us by many well-known international institutions, most recently by the IMF, and a procedure on which the Stability Pact also requires us to do so. That's really refined, Minister of State! You put three or four correct sentences together here, but the combination of these sentences is simply wrong because you do not say certain things. What you are not saying is that all these international institutions you are quoting say that the structural budget deficit in Austria is now too high, not at some point in the future, that these international institutions – but not just these! – criticise the fact that the deficit is too high in the current economic situation in 1998/99. But what we all seem to have forgotten, or what you at least would have liked us to forget, is that we have recently decided on the 1999 budget, with a deficit that does not meet the requirements of the international institutions you are quoting. - Okay, I'm taking this as an interesting attempt to spread incense, perhaps as an unsuccessful attempt. I also do not think that the sustainable improvement you are advocating for the 1998/99 budget is right. This cannot be the case if At the same time, they quote the international institutions which say the opposite, namely that there is no sustainable improvement. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, if you would like to speak again, I would like to hear from you the following: We all know that, although the funds allocated to apprentices in 1997 were granted in a positive way – that is what we admit – but were already granted in advance of 1998, these funds are missing. What about the extra 10 billion schilling you have already taken for 1998? I mean the profits from the National Bank, which were much higher than forecast, and the federal shares in Bank Austria, which have just been ruined to Dresden Bank and to other interested parties. That's a total of at least 10 billion schilling. Is there not something in it for active labour market policy? Federal Minister! Finally, We thank you very much for once again having a clear commitment to environmental tax reform in your speech. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: For ten years!]] For ten years! – The labour factor is to be relieved, and resource consumption is more heavily burdened. Wonderful! But do you know how to get tired of this confession? What does it make sense to make these confessions over and over again? If you want to do it, do it! [[Abg. Conspicuous: Together!]] Let's do it together! That's where we need... [[Abg. It's hard!]] Hard. In God's name, you're the government, not us! If you've been announcing it for years, one day you'll probably bring it together. The reason for the lack of resources in the budget is that there can be no excuse. We Greens have created a hopeful basis for discussion and hopefully have saved you some work. The whole thing is strictly non-conventional. If you want it – of course you won't do it the same way, that's clear – you can do it. We will agree to you, because for good ideas, even if you should take our concept point by point, insert by addition, there should be no copyright. We will then praise the concept of Edlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4893	Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4914	Mr President. High house! As I was asked about various things and addressed, I would like to reply immediately. First of all, to those things that Mr Van der Bellen has said. First point: Venture Capital. I'd like to invite you to go through the documents with me. We currently have 5 billion Schilling unclaimed venture capital in Austria. We need more projects, and no more demands for venture capital. These days, I signed the Foundation for a new venture capital fund with Horizon Venture Management GmbH, focusing on biotechnology and telecom technology. About 500 million schillings have been made out of 150 million schillings. We also have projects there. But let us put aside standard complaints; we can still deal with them. We have enough institutions and institutions at the moment. We are partly lacking in projects. First point. Second point: new enterprises and statistics. You do not find any reference to this in my speech, but I must have said it a few times: We must give a mandate to several institutions so that we can finally achieve a reasonable starting-up statistics in Austria. So far, the only ones, such as the credit protection association, are the logged-out companies, the others, like the Chamber of Commerce, count only commercial memberships, i.e. commercial rights, but we do not have a sufficient overview of the number of independent foundings. I assume that the new statistics will be available as a model in September so that we can perhaps discuss them in detail during the next debate. On the question of subsidy practice in the FFF, I would like to say clearly: The policy there is the following – I have explained this several times –: With the exception of very small enterprises which have little equity and are therefore dependent on credit financing, the instrument of interest support has been used. Liabilities have to be used there, because the large investors who apply for research projects in Austria are far better than the institutions we represent here. But this is a change of policy that has now been implemented. On the issue of technology assessment: As far as the Committee on Industry is concerned, I am not concerned, but as an observer I agree to say the following: I would be pleased if we were invited there once and could deal with what is really true of the allegations. I am really sorry that the research institutes deliver the same numbers every year at acid cucumbery times and say: If Austria spends 2.5 percent of the research budget, we would have a certain amount of research expenditure, but we do not have it, so we need 20 billion more Schilling! I don't see a project gap from the FFF, nor do I see it from the FWF. It is argued by one of the co-authors of the research concept that too many institutes only research to stay on the state of science but do not continue to do anything. I would therefore like to have a discussion in this area with all those involved. Once again to the general situation in the apprenticeship market. You did not read the second part of the "Kurier" article, because it also asked the Chamber of Commerce. This week, a meeting of all the teaching staff responsible took place, and we have insisted that in most of the federal states, the project groups established so far do not see any problems in the apprenticeship market – except Upper Austria, Vienna and Styria; there we will get problems. But to go to the public with these "alarm messages" now is really a summer newspaper show. We have the same phenomenon every year that there are about 3,000 young people who, for many reasons, are unmedial, who also disappear from the market – in Denmark after a short period of time, they are thrown out of the market – and we are left with about 4,000 problematic cases each year where we have problems from regional, functional circumstances. For these, however, the courses will be provided in good time this year. Mr Peter has referred to the issue of Pfusch. I agree with all this, just allow me to say: The fact that much organized pussy begins in Austria when the authorities close up is not useful in the long run. This has nothing to do with too high a cost, but it has become an organized market that benefits from the Authority's looking away. We could easily obtain money for many measures. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The convergence criteria...!]] Mr Vergestnich has spoken of a reduction in working time. Aperçu: I was recently asked by Mr Ciampi and my French colleague Pierret, what Austria is saying about reducing working time in Italy and France. I answered: As Minister of Economic Affairs, I congratulate on behalf of Austrian competitiveness! – That is what we are in the debate within Europe. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Peter.]] On the construction economy – I also mentioned this briefly in my written text: Both construction associations with which we are in contact have no problems in terms of procurement and decision-making practice in my house. There was a discussion about when road construction would break down financially. It is also clear that: The ASFINAG can advance its data circuits by 2001 with all the projects currently in progress. Then it will be time for the planned road pricing for trucks to be implemented. Similar orders have been received to the ASFINAG. We can also expect, with regard to what our German neighbours are planning, that it will be possible to do so at this time and that the projects can be financed further. On debureaucratisation: If you measure me, you can measure me by what my house is responsible for and not by what I cannot prevent from doing to others. We do 50 000 COPCOM approvals alone, i.e. goods export permits, in the online service, we also process 25 000 CITES procedures for rare animal breeds in the online process, which means debureaucratisation. We have, in part, radically simplified those statistics that my house has to answer, so please... [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm just saying: Euro tax law!]] If you have read it, you will see that the euro tax law is more liberal than the famous agreement of the European associations on the voluntary award. Please compare and tell me nothing! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: He didn't read it!]] To the capital debate: Mr Haider is not here now. First of all, it must be assumed that in those areas of business, where there is today 95 to 97 percent of foreign capital, namely tourism and small businesses, the pressure on old interest rates kills the businesses. Therefore, the refinancing programme is the most important thing that can be done. An entrepreneur cannot earn that much to achieve these effects. I don't think of the Leitel model. I personally believe, like many experts, that it would be wiser at the moment to accept the capital used in the operation with the same interest rates as foreign capital or the secondary market return, then there would finally be a reasonable incentive to invest money in the business rather than in the grey market. So much for the considerations that have been made in connection with my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e4986	The next item is Mr Dr. Novotny's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5007	Mr President. High house! My esteemed colleague Van der Bellen's right. This debate on the economic report has a certain ritual character. The ritual is that the opposition parties are trying to identify as many bad or problems as possible, and this is, of course, an incentive for representatives of the government parties to highlight the positive sides. [[Abg. May. Peter: And you have to cheer up a lot!]] That's it. I would like to try today to break out of this ritual and draw a slightly more differentiated picture. It is hardly likely that anyone will seriously dispute that we currently have excellent economic data in Austria. The forecasts have even been raised this week. This is, I think, a fact that we have to put out of dispute. It is true, of course, that these positive economic data are not just due to the activity of the government, which no one has claimed. However, if we remember – and this is already important – the economic debate that we held a year ago, which cash-and-drags were made there and what considerations have been made as to how this government will harm the economy, then we must say: The figures now available clearly show that the measures taken by the Federal Government have not only hindered this economic upturn, but have certainly contributed to the fact that we have a positive economic development today – much better than many expected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But of course there are also problems, and I would like to focus on two areas, one is the labour market, the other is the budget, given the short speaking time. We are pleased to have the lowest unemployment rate in Austria in Luxembourg. In this context, the argument is always: We have so many hidden unemployed people. – Now there are certainly certain areas that are almost latent and do not appear in the unemployment figures, but that is not a particularly Austrian phenomenon. The really relevant statement is that how much of the population participates in the labour market, i.e. the employment rate. And this shows that Austria has one of the highest rates of employment in the EU average. These people can't be hidden, these are the people who are actually on the labour market. In particular, the combination of low unemployment rates and high employment rates shows the success of Austrian labour market policies. In the meantime, it is also true that this Austrian model is becoming more and more interested throughout Europe and is much more often discussed and recommended for imitation than many would like to see in this House. Of course, this commitment to the labour market has cost a lot of money – whether it be direct labour market promotion, whether it be educational measures, or indirect measures. But I have to say: To this use of the budget we confess ourselves! And that is exactly the point that has a very clear priority for us Social Democrats, because we know precisely that nothing is more harmful to a human being that nothing affects his beings, his prospects for development as much as unemployment – in the special case of youth unemployment. This is therefore a priority for us, and we are therefore ready to use budget resources for it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] In this respect, I would like to give some information on the development of the budget. I think you have to see that in the context. It's right: There are today a number of countries in the EU that have lower net deficits than Austria. For example, all Scandinavian countries currently have budget surpluses. Sweden has a surplus of 0.5 percent this year, Finland has a surplus of 0.3 percent. But at the same time you have to look at the unemployment rates: Sweden has an unemployment rate of 9 percent, Finland of 11.6 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] If one sees these figures in connection, then Austria has undoubtedly chosen the better combination: budgetary consolidation with an eye-to-face view and at the same time success in the field of the labour market. I mean, that's the combination that matters and that we want to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5076	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5095	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It has already been said today: It's 9th. July, the holiday nears, and the holiday speeches come like the Amen in prayer. You're on the 8th last year. July was held, one day later, and both of them spoke against generalities. I'll tell you: The two Ministers will go into history: the one as the Minister of Burden and the other as Minister of Conservation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the Minister of Finance is talking about a package of savings, where the majority of them are burdens, I can only say: Where's the savings effect? Where is the structural effect? This too has been quoted several times today. If I pay my employees three additional wages in 1998 due to particularly good performance, they will come to me and say: Mr. Prinzhorn, do you know what it was for? Only in order to be able to satisfy the insatiable appetite of the Minister of Finance for further wage increases and taxes again this year. We don't have anything left of it at all. – That’s the cold progression, that’s your cold look! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Where is there 100 percent limit tax?]] If you say you're very smart, I'll give you the right. Only in the financial sector is one not to be smart, but one has something to do that will reorganise the future and not burden it. However, they burden the future of our children – whether by means of a pension scheme or a tax rate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is currently the interesting situation that you, as ECOFIN President, make statements to which you must stand as Austrian Minister of Finance. For example, you meant: As President of the ECOFIN, a good economic year must be used to reduce debt. – And what are you doing in Austria? So obviously we have two noblemen: one who speaks in Brussels as President of the ECOFIN, and one who in Austria makes exactly the opposite of what he recommends to his other partners as ECOFIN President. You're doing the same with the tax rate. They simply refuse to recognize the Eustat and overrule it with the Östat. They take the Östat data on Östat paper of 44.8 percent and claim that these are the figures of 1996. You know that the Eustat has set us 45.7 percent and that the Dutch are below us. They act against better knowledge! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: Incorrect data!]] But as has been said, a year in which 70 billion schilling is put on the debt in which one already has a debt service at three-digit billion, although the interest rates have fallen, may be "smart" for you in the short term. This is highly taxing for the Austrian company and the financial situation of Austria. Minister Farnleitner said how "toll" the Austrian companies developed in 1998 and how "toll" developed the car sector; the diesel engines were the new racer. It is all the more sad that you, Mr Minister, have seen how this real centre of competence of the car industry has been sold abroad this year. You have been so proud of this car cluster that we have in Austria today. The company Steyr-Daimler-Puch, which was thrown this year, has really been a jewel. She's been thrown away! In the next few days, we liberals will be sending a statement of the facts to the prosecutor, as you, Minister Edlinger, have taken care of the small shareholders in this context, and as you, Minister of Economic Affairs, have already presented to you today, I would like to say that far below the value to foreign countries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank God there are also some honest ones in the ranks here. I am particularly sorry that the liberals constantly confuse with scandalism facts that we have shown to the liberals. Once an opposition party has come to such an extent that it presents facts as scandalisation, it will not be a long opposition party, so I welcome many other approaches of a purely structural policy nature from this side. But, of course, Mr Verzetznitsch is also very honest, because he also criticizes long-term unemployment. He says that we are in broad areas, in particular as regards working time. However, he calls for a reduction in working time so that we can continue to reduce our competitiveness. There he is a very inconvenient man. Mr Maderthaner has already read some of the Levites to the Minister for Economic Affairs, if you have listened carefully. But, as has been said, he does not have to give a holiday speech today either. You, Minister, go on vacation. Mr Van der Bellen gives the ÖVP supplementary education – he gives you assistance, Minister! – in terms of market economy. Do you say how deep the economic competence or the liberalisation of your economic policy has fallen in the ÖVP? I really have to ask you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Have you listened?]] In conclusion: Letter The criticism of Mr Felder, the criticism of Mr Kofler in her master book, Mr Edlinger. The discharge in the wage tax field is urgently necessary, as is the disbursement of the budget on the expenditure side. They are not even able to convert the housing promotion from an object promotion to a subject promotion. You are not even able to achieve a minimum reform that would have really brought something structurally. I have to tell you: They have turned away from all the reforms. The only thing that you have in mind is to keep holiday speeches, keep taxes as high as possible, and hide the statistics. And that's not enough for me!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5216	Mr Edlinger has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5238	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Policy is influenced by various factors. On the one hand – and this speaks for democracy – it is legitimate to represent different views. I am actually very glad that my political views are not consistent with those which Mr Prinzhorn, for example, represented here. This is not an accident for itself. The maturity of democracy and the principle of parliamentarianism are that even if one considers differently, one remains on the basis of facts and avoids certain divisions because they make the discussion difficult. Firstly, to the very self-confidence that the two ministers had made holiday speeches. First of all, I can tell you I'm not making a vacation this year because I have too much work. Secondly, I have also felt many contributions to debate subjectively as dozens of contributions, and I would not consider saying so. And thirdly, If you think I'm a tax minister, and my colleague is a minister of custody, you're an exaggeration god-sei-thank-non-minister. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because, in fact, everything I hear from you is the accumulation of different demands. If I am... – I do not deny anything at all! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You can't deny the cold progression!]] I myself have said that the 2000 tax reform takes into account the effects of cold progression, and we will therefore make corrections. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's nothing but a sluggish tax increase!]] But if you always pretend that this would not be an aspect of my thinking, although I have said it ten times or even more often, then the term "exaggeration-goth-sei-dank-non-minister" is also called "heavy God-sei-dank-non-minister". [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Unfortunately, there is nothing to think about!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is polemic!]] - Why? I can only say that Mr Prinzhorn is not a minister, and that is a fact. That's, I think, not a polemic. We started yesterday to discuss statistics and interpretations. Of course, statistics are extremely interesting, they only change nothing in certain situations. If statistics were to change any measures, I would like to have statistics every day. Whether the Lord or not... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Whether 70 billion budget deficits come out or not?- Oh, my God!]] That's not statistics, it's also a fact. I don't need statistics for that. Mr Prinzhorn, I hope that we will once have the opportunity to discuss this. You said the debt reduction was essential. Another speaker of the liberals, who is not present now, meant that the tax rate should actually be reduced. There have been a number of measures that have no doubt caused costs. Thank you, Professor Van der Bellen at one of the last National Council meetings pre-determined where your demands lead. That's why I want to make it easy and just sum up. The cumulation of the demands I hear from time and time again makes no sense. If one makes serious policy, one must try to judge the whole in politics as well. They said that beautiful weather resorts were held. - I admit that. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: 45 percent taxes are unbearable!]] I have said that in a few passages of my speech, although it has not been printed, I have said so because I have handwritten it into my manuscript, because I do not assume that all problems can be solved in Austria. Not at all! We simply need a positive attitude and with the conviction that we will work together with the people of this Republic to improve the framework conditions as this is necessary in order to be able to take advantage of our opportunities within the Union. This is actually what I assume during this discussion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You still expect pleasure from the taxpayer!]] I do not expect pleasure from the taxpayer, but I know that the Austrians are happy to live in this country, in a country with great social security and high quality of life; and this costs a lot. You can't compare this with other countries. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: And clean lakes!]] That's what I'm calling myself. I am pleased that the Austrians are not only a football fan, but also an Austrian. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Clean lakes, too!]] You really have to say that in all clarity! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: May we also rejoice that we are living in this country? I'm so happy!]] – Of course! But maybe. You also sometimes say that you are pleased that you are living in this country, Mr Deputies. Don't do anything that happens in our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am really grateful to Mr Peter for his honesty. Mr Peter! I am really grateful to you because I would never have believed that a Member is making himself here and that the logical consequence of his contribution to the discussion is, in fact, the massive reduction of social components in our state. You have said this quite clearly; I am grateful to you for it, and then no one will give you anything. I must say quite honestly to you that social reality in our country is also very valuable to me from the perspective from which I judge politics. I am very glad that there are no differences within the coalition government as to whether we are living in a social country and that it should remain. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I am right, Mr Peter, to say that in Austria some things are going slower than elsewhere, because Austria is a country in which a policy of consensus and compromise is pursued by our historical tradition. Austria is a country that has developed a very civilised form of conflict statement, which is also increasingly noticed by our European partners – partly through this partnership, but also through other institutions. It takes a lot longer for us, it may not be so effective, but we are saving ourselves that political polarization and escalation that forces people on the road and ultimately causes far greater economic damage than what we find in our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't tell stories!]] That is another reason why I like to be Austrians and especially politicians in this country. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about Mr Van der Bellen's contribution to the debate. It is right – and I am aware of this – that you are criticizing the fact that in my speech I did not mention the need to reduce the structural deficit. But you know, Professor Van der Bellen, that I have already said this to the public several times. However, the difference – and I do not believe that it exists with you, but with others who criticize the structural deficit – is that the question is to be answered when to correct it. I have said here in this House several times that it was an important task to replace the large number of single-time measures of the 1996/97 consolidation package with sustainable measures. That was the goal of this step. I believe that we must reduce the structural deficit by at least 1 per cent, at least in that time dimension in which the current economic cycle is still in place. This must be taken into account within the framework of the Tax Reform Commission. I do not feel caught here, but I have just not mentioned it in my speech today, because I believe that the tax reform leads to a number of needs of structural changes in the tax structure and also there or there to tariff reductions. This very important question of the structural deficit and the reduction of the same – that is not an ideological question at all, but rather a question of reasonable expediency – means actually having a budget structure that allows us to have in the case of a "economic" the breath that we will then need in order to be able to make politics in this country as well. I will therefore also prepare the tax reform according to these principles. And: Thank you for the Urgency, Professor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5470	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Feurstein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5491	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have to deal with your comments, Mr Prinzhorn, but the Minister for Finance has already done so. However, one thing is clear: They have not given an opinion here on the problems we are facing today and on the concerns expressed by the two ministers. I do not propose to you that you be oblivious, but I suggest that you simply do not listen to some proposals and some constructive contributions and do not want to take note of them. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: I have already commented on this!]] That's not what you want, deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: Talk to Mr. Sausgruber!]] The problem of the reorganisation of the budget, Mr Prinzhorn, has been a real concern of this Federal Government for three years. You can't discuss this away, Mr. Prinzhorn. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Making yourself here and saying that no success has been achieved is simply wrong. – Success has certainly been achieved, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] With regard to employment policy, I would like to tell you the following: For us today, employment policy is at the heart of the discussion. There is no longer full employment in the 1970s, ladies and gentlemen. But one thing I say quite clearly to you – I am saying this both to Members of the European Parliament Van der Bellen as well as the Member of the FPÖ –: We do not accept trends on a 70 : 30 or 50 : 50 percent society indicates that only 70 percent of people still have work, but 30 percent of people are without work. And even less we accept the trend towards 50 : 50 percent. We have opposed this development – and we will oppose it with the National Action Plan on Employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and Haigermoser]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This action plan contains very specific proposals. These are, of course, proposals which are clearly different from what Mr Haider said. We from the ÖVP are not in favour of, for example, abolishing the Master's Test that one has no access to crafts and trades. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn:...no conditions of approval! You didn't read it!]] We believe that it is very important for certain conditions to be met if one wants to become a trade or craftsman. That's a very important thing. We are opposed to these proposals for the abolition of qualifications. However, we are in favour of removing all difficulties for young entrepreneurs who want to become independent. I would like to say the following very clearly: The first priority of the ÖAAB for the National Action Plan on Employment is the wave of founders and the new independence in Austria. Several points have already been made, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The social security of young entrepreneurs, those who want to make themselves independent, has been widened by the voluntary unemployment insurance decided yesterday. I assume and expect that before the summer we will decide on the possibilities of social security benefits for young entrepreneurs, for those who want to make themselves independent, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Dr. Stummvoll was right when he said that he did not understand that the possibility of favouring self-employment depended on whether the main association and the board of doctors agreed, ladies and gentlemen. We really don't understand that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On this issue, we want clarity as soon as possible, so that the young people who want to make themselves independent also have clarity what they expect. Our attention also applies to apprentices. Last year, Mr Mag. Peter, 3 000 to 4,000 new teaching places were created. This is not a cover, but an active use for and an active discussion about needs and conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] If it were so easy – as we are always told – that you only need to reduce social security contributions in order to create new apprenticeships, it would be nice. In the last 18 months, we have reduced social security contributions by 7 percentage points for apprentices in the first academic year, which is more than 15 percent less social security contributions. We have now introduced an exemption for the recruitment of apprentices in the amount of 20 000 S. That's not little. But with financial measures alone – I am aware of this – one cannot solve this problem. We also need public relations and a change in mentality. And we're working on these things, ladies and gentlemen. A reception system has been introduced for school leavers, which is to be carried only in the extreme case in mid-November. Our aim is to provide a training place for every school leaver of this school year in the autumn. And we will succeed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also about the disabled. I say quite frankly to you: There is currently a deficit in this area. Jobs for disabled people are missing, as there is a need for sufficient effort, but the Action Plan contains concrete initiatives and proposals. In conclusion: You could say a lot, but one thing is clear: We are on a good path, as the Minister of Economic Affairs has said, and we should continue consistently along this path, which is also set out in the National Action Plan for Employment. Then we will also create the conditions for more people to find jobs for 1998 and 1999 and for additional jobs for self-employed and self-employed people to be created.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5613	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5635	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has already resulted in a lot of what I can refer to. I would like to start with Mr Edlinger and some aspects of his speech. – Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not in the hall now, what I am sorry for, because I know that he, if he were here, would actually listen and perhaps even take some one or other with him. He spoke about the slowness of Austrian politics and praised it. Now I'm telling you: That's an empty formula for itself. There are problems where slowness is a good approach; "Precaution" might be the more sympathetic word. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Right!]] But there are also areas where slowness is an excuse, such as the tax reform problem. It is by no means true that what is now being demanded in general, namely a structural tax reform with a tendency to reduce, with a strong signal effect, would be quite new, which must now come quickly and be desired "overhuttled". The tax reform committee has been here for a long time, and it has not been set up until yesterday. For example, the demand for the ecological tax reform has been on the bumple for at least ten years. The claim to reduce additional labour costs was not brought into the debate only yesterday. And this slowness of nothingness is a dangerous slowness. Although it was heard from the government bank that many discussions were taking place, I can only say: Hopefully there are conversations, but please tell us what results – and when?- Oh, my God! That's a central question. We should have learned something in recent years: The motto in the competition is not so big against small, but "quickly against slow". [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's what Vice-Chancellor Kussel said years ago!]] If one is too slow in the context of infrastructure problems and the conditions for the economy – which is sometimes referred to as the quality of the economic location – the thesis of the opposition and the liberals is that we are too slow – then this is bad for the common success. Slowness in itself cannot be a self-interest, even if it is admittedly a characteristic of the way in which problems are partly solved in Austria. As you have said the word "long-lived", Mr Edlinger – unfortunately he has not yet returned – as such a positive one, I would like to say that the National Action Plan on Employment already contains this slowness. It does not contain verifiable intermediate targets. In other words, from the outset the plan has been set up in such a way that at the end of the five-year planning period it will at best prove whether the objectives have been achieved or not. This is proof that you do not intend to evaluate it at all. They have therefore formulated it in such a way that it cannot be evaluated at all. And that is what you do when slowness is the principle of politics. In this way, one is on the way to so-called goal achievement – free from the danger of being caught, that one is too slow that one has not really achieved the goal. This is not to be expected on the go, but it is unfortunate that one will not even reach an intermediate goal. This is then on the table and is proof of slowness, but not of speed. If you want to avoid this, you have to submit other plans. The tax reduction problem has several aspects, and I am going to present the social problem here. It is also a matter of mass purchasing power, it is also about a kind of social policy, in which the individual of the remaining remaining income, which after taxation is called "net income", must not in fact depend on transfers in addition. The most elegant transfer is the money left to people and not taken away before. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Wherever this is possible, this should be the first goal; that does not mean that one should not, of course, give transfers where necessary. Why, do you think, have we presented liberals with a basic guarantee model in which social transfers form part of the tax? And why do you refuse the discussion? This would give us the opportunity to ensure, with high confidence, the existential basis for everyone and every woman in that country with certainty. As a part of taxation, it is a structural solution which, as I believe, is really suitable for discussion and should therefore be discussed. If the Federal Minister for Finance takes his claim that it is precisely things that have to interfere, if one makes such a tax reform, that is really serious, then he has to discuss this part of the issue, because he will be discussed internationally – whether this is heard in Austria or not. It is an international issue to develop social security in such a way as to represent itself as a component of the tax system in its foundations. The fact that it is not possible to solve health problems is that, of course, education policy is not a solution to the fact that it does not solve the question of women by itself, I only mention that it is because, for the sake of mishap, one is accused of being able to solve all the issues of this republic with a fundamental social security. Although it is necessary to solve all other questions, it is not yet resolved. If Mr. Federal Minister Edlinger said that we had such an excellent social security system, that would be more than nice. Although we have a social security system that has proved itself right and bad over the last 40, 50 years, it must be recognized that it has been in serious slump for at least 10 years, that its quality of solution is decreasing from year to year, that savings packages have been necessary to achieve it in a way that is still quite necessary. At the same time, these savings packages have made it difficult for the quality of our social systems at that time to reduce the time of claim in the case of unemployment, to reduce emergency aid, to reduce care payments, to reduce health care horizons. Why, then, is the fixed tooth replacement so strangely discussed, without anyone mentioning that the social security companies in Austria have never replaced this fixed tooth replacement at all? Never at all! The scurry in this discussion is that the main association is presumptuous of interfering in something that it itself does not pay. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This discussion is not being held, but it would be the structural discussion that is just about to be considered: Is not the example of the firm replacement of teeth on the table of proof that self retention is something that one must not a prioritize? Because the fixed dentures are currently being treated by social security institutions according to the philosophy of a hundred percent self retention. Maybe that's the real mistake. However, if one really wanted to solve this, in some things one would have to spend more than before and spend less in other things than before. Because one thing is certainly right: The government rate will not be increased for this purpose. On the contrary, you should rather try to lower them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is exactly according to the thesis I have already formulated here: The money left to people is the best transfer. That, I think, has been completely lost in the eyes. Another thought that is important to me in this context: Why is the structural question of the liberal request to remove employers' contributions in the social security field simply erased from the table, although it is clear – clearly! – would we solve countless problems with the collection of these contributions? There would no longer be the question of the levelling-out of the thresholds, but also the elimination beyond the maximum basis of contribution would no longer exist in this area. Finally, the employer would bear the same burden on each wage schilling. This is our access. But this one refuses social democracy, although she says behind her hand that this is a great idea. Everyone who understands some sort of bureaucracy and red tape reduction knows that this would obviously be a quantum leap in simplifying wage accounting. But that would only relieve companies of red tape, and therefore this obviously does not interest anyone. Another aspect that has also been mentioned to Federal Minister Edlinger is the "exemplary" education system. Our education system is as right and as bad as it is. But in the context of the economic problems that we have to call "exemplary", it is great cow! Professions are defined with a slowness in the sense of Edlingers, which is penetrant so that dual training can develop, although the reality of the working world has long distanced kilometers from these careers before they are defined. There is still a completely static access to training. It is thought that one could define a career view, give it to the young person on the journey to life, and that would then last until the end of his life, instead of focusing on developing life-long learning. Only with such static access can anyone believe that qualifications – in the sense of Mr. Feurstein – give any sustainable meaning. Of course, any good training, which is ultimately also a certificate of qualification, makes sense, but only if it is started with understanding that, after completing the first stage, it must continue in itself. A lot of things fail in this lack of mind! These mental barriers must be overcome because structure and quality of our training are not really satisfactory. I'm telling you that in my capacity as a business advisor who does personnel development. Where people are able to develop, they have developed it themselves. They did not bring it from school, they did not bring it from the teaching – unless they were lucky by chance and had an excellent teacher who did something that Collegue Van der Bellen cited as an example, namely, who was concerned that the people in his education also developed social skills, learned to express themselves and to act. But believe me, in the reality of apprenticeship, that is not the normal case, and that is more than a pity! These skills deficits exist, and a healthy world of trade regulations believes that they can be reduced by making qualifications a 'A' and 'O'. If that is more or less, it is not the question. Unfortunately, Mr Maderthaner did not understand that. It is not a question of whether to halve or not the number of qualifications requirements, but rather of having skills in small and medium-sized enterprises and in the commercial sector. However, the question of who the arbitrator is about the qualification needs to be answered. – The market is the referee about the qualification, not the Chamber of Commerce! And this difference is significant! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, this is not possible without risk. Of course, there is a risk group, a affected group, and those are, in any case, consumers. That is why my colleague Helmut Peter, in his proposals, has provided for compulsory liability insurance so that such claims are not carried out on the back of the last member in this process. But then it's said it's too expensive. However, the fact that there are already damage in the field of trade which cannot be covered then because companies do not have the economic capacity to give up for such damage, as they do not have sufficient equity or insurance, will be adequately concealed. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Dr. Kier! That's the wrong approach!]] That means that it is as expensive now as it would be then, only now pays the consumer because he cannot enforce himself because of lack of liability insurance. In our case, he would have an insurance on his side. And if the colleague in the first row thinks that this is the wrong approach, I invite her: If this is a wrong approach, let us re-establish compulsory liability insurance in the car sector! That's exactly where we knew: Those who have the benefits of the risk of the operation have to face the risk. And I mean, Those who are entrepreneurs and try to achieve the benefits of their business activities must also face the risk they pose. This calls for mandatory liability insurance, which, by the way, all professions of course. All doctors, all lawyers, all tax advisors have such professional liability insurance, however at different levels. And that makes sense. If a company has always worked well, empirically, and therefore has a small risk of damage, it will pay a relatively low premium. No one needs to be afraid of that! I therefore believe that this is a solution that simply needs to be discussed, because it is a structural approach and the structural issues are more important than short-term cosmetics – although I understand, of course, that, in the context of achieving the euro goal, short-term budget cosmetics may temporarily appear to be more important than sustainable structural reform. Mr Edlinger, the Federal Minister, whom I would like to address, has not yet returned. I'm really sorry about that. He does not see that what he has accused of the opposition here is not true, namely that we would not be really discussive and would not respond to the arguments correctly. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It will at least be annoyed that the Federal Minister refuses to hold the debate on his own report. You'll be allowed to! Another point is the promotion of technology. Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner, you are fortunately in the hall – but Edlinger would also be affected. Technology promotion is not as rosy as you represent it. We have been discussing this since 1987, since the first five technology billions you created at the time when you sold parts of the joint venture. However, they have never really appeared, except in labels that were but never received a substance, but only the claim to the budget. This technology billion, which is regularly presented here, but never spent, has existed for over ten years! If you, Mr Federal Minister, have done this, the big companies need to research more and the small need advice, I will tell you: This is also a description of the state of the economy, which is only partly true. In fact, a structure of virtual industry has long developed, consisting mainly of small, inter-operating, highly innovative companies, which, however, are not perceived by you because of the chamber structure, since the workforce sizes in the individual companies are simply small. To sum up, however, the powerful conglomerate, which works on a case-by-case basis and is partly the world market leader, for example in the cable industry. But They do not know these companies in the Chamber, because they have only 50 employees in part. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's not true!]] These companies are best known in the field of foreign affairs, but they actually have nothing to do with the Chamber, if they did, they would not be so efficient. I would like to say that quite clearly. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] You can laugh at it as much as you want. If you knew the reality of economics in the international field, you would know that the people in the foreign economies are acting in a way that has nothing to do with what you experience here at home when you come into contact with the Chamber. That's a mental question, not just a formal organisational one. That the Lord's Secretary-General is responsible and that there are also a few people in the main street of Wiedner, who are administratively behind it, I do not dispute. That's not the subject. I can confirm the mental barriers to becoming self-employed ten times. Between young and older self-employed persons, the quota is 1 : 7. A young businessman who is really successful comes with seven outsourced managers who had to make themselves independent. It's a pity! I believe that this is also a result of the fact that there is no venture capital situation in Austria that is satisfactory. However, this is not only because, as my colleague Helmut Peter says, as a young company, it cannot earn 20 percent as quickly as it is, but also because there are no institutions willing to share the risk with the venture capital needer, as bureaucratic banking thinking prevails instead of innovative, entrepreneurial thinking. A final sentence in this context on economic statistics, which is much complained of and rightly described by companies as a bureaucratic burden. This is not statistics in Austria, it is economic accounting, because economic statistics came out with samples, came out with mathematical tools, not with the counting of every single cow in the stable. If one makes economic statistics as we do, from the bureaucracy, from an OSTAT which is an office instead of an innovative institution, then we will be forever on the spot and will be in an embarrassing situation that Austria is the country that last gives its figures to all OECD statistics. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true, Dr. Kier! That's wrong!]] Not all numbers, I take back; almost all numbers, Mr. Feurstein, so that I can stay right! We are criticizing this very slowness. This slowness is bad and bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] One final sentence: It should be understood, however, that one of the leading public tasks of economic policy would be at last to modernise the infrastructure and not to be satisfied with such half-heartedness as the ElWOG, Minister of State Farnleitner, may one finally understand that infrastructure is called hardware and software, i.e. infrastructure in the physical sense: Rail, cable, road, and infrastructure in the immaterial sense, i.e. red tape reduction. This is called modern infrastructure. This is the software of modern infrastructure. But this wording is foreign to the Federal Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5817	Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5838	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have now listened very attentively to Mr Kier and in his speech I have the impression that the field of activity on which he is moving is so large that it is sometimes difficult for him to really see things properly in the debate. If he has philosophized here about slowness and speed, I can recommend him a wonderful book, namely, "The infinite slowness of being". If he had read this book, one could also talk to him about this subject in terms of content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] He probably didn't read it, nor did he have much else, but here he has to take a position on many issues that are not so familiar to him. I understand: There are, of course, more problems in a small group, one has to deal with a lot of issues, and Mr Kier seems to be one of those liberal Members who can say a lot on all topics ad hocly, but that is a bit of quality. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Because he can!]] However, this is not an accusation, but it is quite simply because of the small number of Liberal Members that one has to strike around with. For example, Kier makes the following statement: The market is the arbitrator on the qualification, not the Chamber of Commerce. – A beautiful sentence! I have never heard the Chamber of Commerce speak out in any form of staff qualifications. That's something new to me. But he claims it's so beautifully said. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The Industrial Order is an instrument of the Chamber!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: No, really not!]] But I am not the representative or the lawyer of the Chamber of Commerce, I just wanted to illustrate by an example how easy it is to make statements in the slowness of thought that, if one had not such a broad field of activity, one could better think before. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You should look at the business order!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not my intention now to deal with the contents of Mr Kier's speech, because there are a lot of things that I do not want to discuss today. My speech is primarily intended to deal with a very important point in our financial and economic context, namely the question of how we will achieve the reorganisation of the management of the high-level road network in the future. The Federal Minister made a number of comments in his second speech earlier. All that I now want to do here, Mr. Federal Minister, is not to understand as criticism of what is happening – we both know how difficult it is to push these things forward – but should be there or there an incentive or in some way a support. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the discussion of those who have all this to manage and carry out, i.e. those who are responsible for the management of the ASFINAG, I hear again and again that there is still some legal requirement to achieve road pricing for trucks, and that a revision of the Federal Road Finance Act would be necessary. We've talked about it a few times. There are different legal systems, and I do not want to keep behind the mountain either. In order to have legal certainty, it might be useful to correct the parts withdrawn by the Constitutional Court and to establish more precise determination in the Federal Road Finance Act, so that it would be a little easier for the management of the ASFINAG to start negotiations with the countries. It is now about the need to draw up a draft toll regulation, which must then be issued by you, Minister of State, so that you can become active so that the management of the ASFINAG can make the appropriate calls and award the corresponding contracts. This is a considerable potential. This is an investment potential in the order of around 3.5 billion schilling. I assume that we will first have 24 main tombs and then 70 additional tombs in the federal states. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that we should make these investments, which are now in place, in the form that we have jointly established in the Coalition Government in the Federal Road Finance Act and in the Infrastructure Finance Act. The aim must be that, in the end, 2001 – this is not too long, since it must be done quite well to ensure that all this is feasible – the trial operation can start, about mid-2001. The full operation should then take place in 2002. I believe that these are realistic data, but I say that we have to be careful that the operation should only be done at the beginning of the year and not during the year, because many conversion data are necessary et cetera. Therefore, if possible, this objective would be with 1. In 2002 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative It must also be clear to us that, as soon as this objective is achieved, additional revenue in the order of net 2.5 billion schilling – all expenses are already charged – will be available to the currently approximately 6.2 billion schilling in order to manage the high-level road network in Austria. And we can also meet the convergence criteria that are linked to the breakdown of the ASFINAG debt. I hope that this work will succeed, Minister of State, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5922	Mr Haigermoser is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e5943	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We can already enter into a dialogue. Federal Minister! No one of the opposition will honestly claim that this country has not developed an economic power in association with its citizens, which gives the vast majority of its citizens bread and work; that is indisputable. And we, too, are allowed to live in this country – I cannot speak to Mr Edlinger now because he is not present – and we are happy to live there. That is why we also need to remind ourselves, Mr Federal Minister, that this view of the positive must not lead you to give your Sunday speeches and say: "All palleti, all right, there are a few little things, but we'll do them already!"if the facts look quite different, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The facts look, for example, so that you have decided on an ElWOG, which, and this is admittedly positive, gives the large-scale customers the right prices, but the small and medium-sized enterprises still have high energy prices on it, and that means that they fall back once again in their competitiveness towards the foreign neighbours. These are negative conditions that you are creating, ladies and gentlemen. We already know that globalisation – and like the words all loud – is also important for this, Mr Feurstein, that difficulties occur. But let's take your promises to hand, only by exception: Ruster decisions, big celebrated in a government event. You said 50 000 entrepreneurs right away! And what does the management director of the Young Economy, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, say to you, which is certainly not unknown to you, belong to your party? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I don't know if he belongs to my party!]] What does he say? Helmet: The start of the Federal Government for a founding offensive went to its own knees. We know, he goes on to say, that the start-up costs for business start-ups are a huge burden. A reduction in the contribution burden over the first three years would therefore not only be an intelligent investment in the future, but also a clear welcome signal to all potential young entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Let's do it! You agree!]] You have done nothing, says Mr Helmel, ladies and gentlemen, the leader of the Young Economy, who needs to know. And then he says, The government is unnecessarily prolonging its young business debacle for a long time. – End of this quote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're not the sick people. We only want to get things to the point, that is to say, drilling hard boards is announced, Minister of State. Finally, take off the pink glasses, otherwise the Austrian economic operator will be black in front of the eyes, and we want to prevent that from happening. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the figures are true – and I assume it is – in the first quarter of 1998, we will have an increase of more than 20 percent in insolvency, Mr Feurstein. 20 percent additional insolvency! In addition, there are declining figures in the new entries – these are the figures of the Chamber of Commerce, I would like to point out that I hope they are not turret – a minus of about 15 percent compared to the first quarter of 1997. So Helmel is right; he calls on this number. A shot at the economic knee, ladies and gentlemen, is your so-called founding offensive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am still under the impression – and Mr Schwarzenberger was there – of a conversation last Tuesday, where the representatives of the three important parties were present, a conversation with four economic operators, industrialists from Salzburg: MACO – 900 employees –, WIBERG – 350 employees –, SENOPLAST – more than 100 employees –, Kuchler Gipswerke – 100 employees. [[Abg. More!]] More than 100 employees. [[Abg. Swimming: Much more!]] Much more, okay, it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen – and you were there –: All these entrepreneurs have expressed their concern that they will not be able to keep the businesses, the jobs in the future if the framework conditions are not improved if the bureaucracy is not reduced if no fiscal framework is created that allows for economics. These are all skilled Austrian entrepreneurs who started from zero, for example the company MACO with 900 employees in 1948. These people have assured us that they will have to be bleeding hearts in order to remain internationally competitive and move jobs abroad. But you, Minister of State, say: Everything's palette, everything's fine! Ladies and gentlemen! These have not been a pity, but they have been innovative ventures. None of the Members present will be able to say something else than I have put it out here. Ladies and gentlemen, your Sunday speeches are on the table! What do you say outside, and how are you doing here? This is the "grass question" of politics. That's what it says: A tax reform that creates work. Five proposals for the discharge of the economy and for job security. – The performance-oriented middle class must be relieved. Tax-free treatment of the unabsorbed profit has absolute priority. There must be accompanying relief measures in the case of business start-ups. In future, there should be tax incentives for research and development, training and private pension schemes. These rates have not been taken from the liberal tax programme, but could have been removed. Who says that? – Mr. Stummvoll on the Entrepreneur's Day, 2nd. 6. 1998, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is a scandal!]] These are the problems you have! That's a wonderful call, but you, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, will come out as the last speaker today and say: That's not what we meant. That's not how we meant it. We told you something because Sunday was, ladies and gentlemen. – It's working day, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to make it possible for businesses to operate again. And a sentence to the left half of the empire, because the reduction of working time is resounding, as if it were the blessing at all. [[Abg. May. Posch: It must come!]] The history of reducing working time is the history of unemployment and the history of black work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That didn't say any less than your big model Tony Blair, and also Schröder said that. Ladies and gentlemen! You should think more intelligently than what is being put into play by you now. Never has a democracy been able to survive in the past, while its core group of bourgeois middle class has been discriminated against, eroded, manipulated or exploited. – This is what Professor Haumer, head of the Institute for the Middle East of the Federal Republic of Germany, says. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not turn into your "compromise", then it will become really difficult – see the statements of these four wise medium-sized Salzburg entrepreneurs. We also want to be able to live in this country, not only in a healthy environment, but in an economic structure that allows apprentices to train, pay taxes and be competitive.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6091	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haigermoser! You make the discussion very easy – as a member of the economy you certainly have your right. Of course, they are pleading for tax reductions, for more favourable conditions – yes, that is also the right of the Secretary-General of the Economic Chamber – but at the same time, for example, Mr Scheibner asked: [[Abg. Haigermoser: The stupid has made it easy, not me!]] Of course, much more needs to be made available for national defence! Mr Haller asked much more for family support, Mr Aumayr called for much more for agriculture. – I’d be happy about that too. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your speech will frame them, most of your party friends – still!]] At the same time, of course, the net deficit must not be increased. This banknote is not yet available, where you can only get out without adding anything in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A federal budget can be reworked, but everything that is spent must also be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I no longer want to deal with the Haigermoser; my time is limited to 5 minutes. I would like to turn to the economic situation in the agricultural sector, because agriculture too is part of the economy. In 1997, the agricultural sector was marked by an increase in agricultural and forestry production of 2.5 percent to around 63 billion schilling. This increase in final production is primarily due to better prices and more impact in the forestry sector. There are still reserves here if there are appropriate framework conditions. [[Abg. Aumayr: And who decides the framework conditions?]] In Austria we have a wood increase of around 30 million solid meters per year, but on average only about 20 million solid meters are used. In other words, we could increase our use by 50 percent and still manage it in a sustainable way, because we are still growing as much as we are used. There is even a study prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which says: If all reserves were used, including in biomass, there could be 40 000 to 50 000 jobs in Austria. It is, of course, necessary for us to create better conditions for those fossil fuels, which can only be extracted from earth's stocks, with an ecological tax reform on these raw materials, all of which are so to speak, based on work. According to the 1995 agricultural structure survey – and I mention this also in this context, because agriculture is always reduced as a small proportion of gross domestic product – according to the 1995 agricultural structure survey – and that has been raised in every single household – in agriculture, 950 000 people live in rural households, which is at least 12 percent of the total Austrian population. Of these 950 000 people, 630 000 work either continuously or partly in agriculture. We have a lot of auxiliary farmers. 70 percent of our farmers are by-catches farmers, who are of course no longer included in the statistics as workers in agriculture. But they think like farmers and also work in agriculture. Despite this increase in final production, however, income per person employed in agriculture fell by 2.5 percent in real terms. How did this come about? The main reason for this is the planned reduction in degressive compensatory payments, which we have known since 1995. Indeed, for a period of four years, degressive payments have been agreed, so to speak, to suspend accession to the EU in agriculture. These have been 2.2 billion lower than a year earlier, but also, and this is more pleasing for agriculture in itself, the departure in agriculture has since the mid-1990s gone down to about half compared to the beginning of the 1990s, at which time the departure was already lower than it had been in about the 1980s. Of course, it can also play a role in the absence of jobs in a reasonable environment, and there is certainly a certain trend towards emigration. This does not mean, however, that the farmers all leave agriculture as quickly as possible, but migration has rather declined. The value of agriculture is always measured in gross domestic product. However, many agricultural services are not covered statistically, such as the care of the cultural landscape. After all, 80 percent of the Austrian total area is maintained up to the glacier regions of farmers – as a basis also for the holiday of relaxation, for tourism in Austria, but also for the provision of the population. At no time in Austria has the farmers covered the table of the people to such an extent and in such good quality, and we would be able to feed not only 8 million Austrians, but we would be able to feed 10 or more million Austrians. It's really a farmer's achievement. Thus, in agriculture, productivity has increased more in recent decades than it has been in industry. However, it cannot be denied that agricultural reforms are necessary. Overall, production in Europe, of course, increases by around 2 per cent per year depending on the weather. The population is no longer growing, and the Europeans are relatively well fed. So there is little room here. That is, we are increasingly dependent on the world market. But with the conditions we have in Europe, for example with the environmental conditions, with the animal welfare requirements, also with the social conditions to which we confess, we cannot compete with world market prices. That is, we need reasonable rules, and I hope that within the framework of Agenda 2000 there will be arrangements within a year which farmers can also accept.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6184	Mr Gaugg has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member. – Oh, excuse me, honourable Member! I have forgotten that the Minister spoke earlier. That was my mistake. You're the next one. The Federal Minister is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6209	Mr President. High house! On the questions I have asked you in the near future: On the question Road-Pricing: During road pricing, we commissioned ASFINAG to focus the investigations on the uniformly developed trans-route system. It has been shown that, in various federal states, the selective tolling points cause injustices for individual regions to be investigated before we will go to the repair of the § 1 and 2 Federal Road Finance Act. Therefore, it is initially up to the ASFINAG to finally carry out these investigations. Then that will be implemented in the sense of what we have done. Secondly, Mr Haigermoser, to the ElWOG: I know the client’s well, but: Consumer prices – i.e. prices for those who are not entrepreneurs – are below the EU average. The other Austrian consumers are in the second third, and the industry is in the very top third and is brought to international competitiveness by the reform. There is also the challenge of the next years, and there was the most urgent need for action. To my colleague, Mr Helmel, when I read the same thing you read, I thought: Now he's gonna get in the knee! There are really a lot of people in politics, including young people who believe that there is something from the government and that 100 000 people are ordered to do business on the report. That is totally unthinkable! We have a lot of funding facilities, and it should also be noted to young organisations that not everything they publish is right. From our founding service we know that the founding costs are not the big problem of the founders, but the problems we have identified in my founding service are that, despite all the qualifications, many young entrepreneurs are focusing on the most regulated trade that we still have in Austria, on the 80 or 84, and not on the 800 other possibilities with which to confirm themselves in the market. Secondly, the opening of the telecoms and service markets will now lead to a whole series of new professions for the first time. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, You know, we have agreed very quickly to set up a biomass centre as a competence centre, because the growth in the forest in Austria is in the long run inviting us to use it optimally for e-commerce and biogas use. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6254	Please, Mr Gaugg, now you are at the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6275	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As someone who has not been a Member for so long, it would be expected that if declarations are made by the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance, you will have a solution that you will have solutions as to how you want to shape the enlargement of the EU, how you will deal with the fact that we currently have 600 000 unemployed people, that we have a total low employment and more. But there is nothing else to be fabricated here than explanations of how good you are, nothing but a mutual renunciation, but only in the approach to addressing the real problems. This is so far as President Vergestnitsch continues to emphasize what he is doing for the labour force in this country today, but in reality he is doing child-moving. He was an enthusiastic EU advocate, he is an enthusiastic supporter of the euro, but in the same breath he demonstrates with tourists in Tyrol. This is a child-moving first order, which is an ignorance to those who seek the same. We know that there is an ever-increasing unemployment in tourism, there are about 33,000 unemployed alone in this area. They also know that there is an Olympic application of the state of Carinthia and the city of Klagenfurt. There is also a special degree of ignorance: No matter what they're doing down there, it's going to be all right. They were asked in applications to finally take over the liability of 13 billion Schillings, so that this application would also apply accordingly and on time. It can be delivered on September of this year. – You don’t care what’s going on down there, unimportant, that’s how the socialist jacket works, you don’t care what’s going on down there, because there the reds are more likely to die out, and therefore don’t support them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! I would also have expected you to comment on how you want to achieve environmental standards, safety standards, social standards, this prosperity gap between the East and today's EU. How does that work? However, there are considerable burdens on domestic workers. That's gonna wipe everything away. You're good, you're beautiful, you're great. Then Mr Maderthaner comes and talks about export success. There may already have been 16.8 percent more exports in recent years. The fact is, however, that employees in Austria are not allowed to participate in these successes. Instead, there were zero-one rounds, there were no pay and tax packages and more. Mr Maderthaner seems to me like the bank directors: These companies always sell their companies outside like the golden goose, and to the employees in their own house as grated hen. That's about what it looks like: radiate outside and whim inside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the same thing. Where is the capacity of the domestic economy, which is undisputed abroad? Why can't this capacity be implemented domestically, so that the purchasing power can be strengthened accordingly and the security of the jobs that continues up to the apprentices? Where is the attracting of training? Where do you take your actions that support you with hundreds of millions of schilling? – Despite everything, 7 000 apprentices will "remain" in autumn of this year. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Do you know that?]] Where has the improvement of the incomes of the workers in Austria remained? Where is equality between workers and employees? [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: How do you know that?]] The right person, Mr. Feurstein, is always talking about the protected workshop. I'll tell you: They are co-responsible for the fact that domestic workers have ever worse conditions. This is your kind of social policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Feurstein and Rosemarie Bauer.]] You are not even able to do the 55. ASVG-Novelle. For months work is done with cramps. They're one of the main culprits. You are the braker, the inhibitor of a good development in social policy in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What about your alliance with the current German Chancellor Kohl in Germany, who recently called for a massive reduction in contributions in his country? Where's your call for it? It always doesn't mean that's all right with us. We don't have everything at all! In Japan, with immediate effect, the tax on wages is reduced; we are not. We have to wait until the year 2001. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Japan is not a good example!]] – Well, as a privilege rider, you are in no way affected. You just haven't become the director of the ECB – that's the only thing that hurts you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Can you also argue objectively?]] They're not a victim of it. They pay the wage tax from the left pocket, but the worker who does not receive a wage increase for three years suffers from your policy. This goes down to the support of the pay-free amounts you activate. They are the one who reduces income. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Can you also argue objectively?]] You talk loose, you're there once, then you're not there, then go to college and teach a little, then apply again at a bank. - That's your job. You want to be a social democrat?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You can't argue objectively!]] - Well, I'm arguing objectively. I would like to point out that if you are prepared to put forward a proposal on how to reduce the wage tax on domestic workers quickly and comprehensively. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Then do it once!]] The cold progression alone eats billions of schilling away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I like to be ready, but you can only polemize. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It doesn't pay off at all!]] You can only polemize, and therefore I am delighted that you want to have an objective cooperation... – Yes, just as it is, they warn. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They warn the NEWS about a wage tax reduction!]] 45 percent tax rate. – I would raise them even further! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I'm for the social state!]] But only as long as it concerns you. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr. University Professor, you know me badly. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Now you're real!]] But you have a huge chance: Today, you can agree to a resolution by the Freeman on the EU contribution. You can be there. I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Professor! I'll invite you to: Go with me to a worker's guest house, and then we'll discuss it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6523	Mr Gaugg has read the motion for a resolution on EU contributions. It has been handed over in accordance with business rules, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiation. Mr Heindl, Member of the Commission, is now speaking with a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6547	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I do not record the economic report as you do, I must say, as much as a self-evangelization of government work, because the government does not work in the enterprises. We present a successful report – I read it through tonight after I had prepared what I am doing again and again – and I come to the conclusion: Let us be glad that we have such facts! Helmut Haigermoser! I'm the last one who says the framework conditions are so excellent, we shouldn't change them at all. I very much believe that there is a need to think about framework conditions every day and to renew them again and again. Everything is changing around us, so we also need to change framework conditions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's right!]] That is the first principle. I know, and that's quite legitimate, the opposition says: That should have happened yesterday. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I am already satisfied with tomorrow!]] – Let me exaggerate a little! - All right, so tomorrow. I too would have liked to have changed a lot more quickly. The Minister of Economic Affairs says: I recognize that, of course, some things need to be changed as quickly as possible, such as the rules on economic fidelity. This is not about the accountant and the self-employed alone, Mr Böhacker. It's about a lot of things. Among other things, it is primarily about the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises – which are always in the room – have access to more cost-effective advice in competition, perhaps also to faster consultation. We'll discuss that. We hope we can do this in autumn. [[Abg. Böhacker: I am willing to discuss with you!]] They criticise the new business regulations. I do not want a new debate on the trade order, but I must say one thing: When I asked for three months at the time, everyone – even my experts – said, I demand too much under plant law. Today they admit: The impossible has become possible. It works with this – I admit – epochal step to achieve an installation permit in such a short time. That's too little for me, dear Helmut Haigermoser! Minister Farnleitner announces that we are creating a comprehensive plant right. That is exactly what we need, because still some things are not in such a way that they are perfectly in line with the current framework conditions. But it's in progress. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I must say in all critical consideration – and this has nothing to do with consecration –: The economic facts speak a clear language. The OECD report – which you will have read – states that the economic recovery in Austria in 1997 was mainly based on strong export growth and – we should register – improved international competitiveness. – That means that we must have appropriate framework conditions in Austria so that our companies can cut off in competition, whether domestically or in export. Otherwise, it wouldn't be possible. This is not the result of government work, but the economy accepts that the framework conditions are useful. The situation has therefore clearly improved. But where have your contributions improved the framework conditions? – I have not heard a word from you, but I would have liked to hear it. I actually wanted to say something completely different, but I have to comment on it now, because it concerns small and medium-sized enterprises in particular: the removal of border controls and the disappearance of waiting times and border formalities. This has mainly been used by the small and medium-sized exporter. Even if you shake your head, Mr Böhacker, it's a very, very, very cast improvement. That brings between 8 and 16 billion schilling. But it's not just the money, it's the whole manipulation. The operation no longer needs a limit camp, it can deliver directly. The "just in time" is now possible from Austria. These are things that have brought improvement. These are improvements in the environment. Don't you think that's something else? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I could mention a number of things. That's reality. Or: the disappearance of the rules of origin. – Why in some areas of the textile industry in export has just stopped... – I have to stop again, but I could now say a lot of things in which the situation has improved. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We have to talk differently!]] I admit, there are still some things – I mentioned only two – where we have to make improvements, that is no question at all. All in all, however, we have created not only an appropriate climate, but also conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to work in the export industry. Finally, I should like to mention a number. It can't be a coincidence, because today there is no export in the conventional sense that deliveries to the EU have increased by 60 percent by small and medium-sized enterprises! That's the facts! This has nothing to do with congratulations, but that is economic reality, and we should talk about them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6643	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6664	Mr President. Minister! Mr Heindl! You know, the report is a consecration. The foreign trade deficit with the OECD alone accounts for 107 billion schillings, and we also know why the OECD is constantly invoking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] A report of 22 pages, in which 20 pages are used for success messages and only two pages for future measures, is simply diametrically to the reality. 100 billion Schilling Interests and charges for public debt, 100 billion Schilling external trade deficits against the EU countries, still 70 billion schilling new debt per year and an up-to-date increase in unemployment! – You just have to hold on to that. Mr. Minister! In your reports, you simply forced the success rate into a too small corset. That's too small a concept. Although I accept the admission of Minister Farnleitner, who says that research activities are at last fuelled, the technology billions have not flown to this day. - You have to hold on to that too. The fact that the entrepreneurship power has to come from the upper levels of education is a finding that is actually true. Because now the well-trained people are pushing into Pragmatization to a very high degree. That means that the structure is simply wrong. The fact that the equity ratio is too low is also an admission that I myself have noted positively. But if you go into the depths, then actually only the facade shines out of these reports. With the apparatus of the German army, only the trumpets of the Guard music flash in themselves, we saw this very impressive yesterday. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Ingenieur Nußbaumer!]] There is no investment for the equipment in itself. The EU Presidency is also beaming into the world, Mr. Federal Minister! They demand harmonisation. This should have been initiated even before accession. I give you the right, harmonisation is necessary. But the list of Austrian infringements of European Community law is becoming more and more: Savings, toll, rules of award, Salami. – These are just the topics and headlines of the media. In reality, harmonisation, which would have been necessary and an opportunity, is at least not a liberalisation within the meaning of the European Union in connection with the ElWOG. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! The result that your colleague Farnleitner brought with the patents and patterns is really not a real one, because utility models in the world hardly have any protection – perhaps in Austria, but not in the world. So: With usage patterns you can "smart" yourself if you want to export to America or Japan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Something else seems typical to me – you did not say that, but I would like to mention it anyway. Farnleitner has brought only examples from the large industry: General Motors, Stronach – everywhere he works. Obviously, there is neither time nor inclination for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] This reminds me very much of my time in the European Parliament. Bangemann has only – and he has also been looked at – gone out with the people of the large industry and has taken care of the small and medium-sized companies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right! That's right!]] Unfortunately, I am missing my dear friend Gottfried now, but perhaps colleague is stupidly so kind and will pass it on. Gottfried Feurstein says that the wave of founders is at the first place in this report. However, it is not at all in favour of what measures are to be taken to finally initiate this wave of founders. Mr Finanzminister! You celebrate the achievement of the convergence criteria with pride, you have said that. But in reality – and I believe that this must be said, of course, as an opposition politician, and I ask you to take note of this too – the international institutions urge us that the budget deficit is too high and that it should be a maximum of 1.8 percent new debt in this year. They urge us because the necessary structural reforms have not been launched. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: The total debt of Austria!]] Of course, Austria's total debt is added. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: And on 2.2!]] But this is also included in the 100 billion interest rates and fees you have annually. However, there is no longer any possibility of making the appropriate investments. That is why it is wrong to celebrate the 26 000 new jobs. They should regret that in the last week alone – and this has already been mentioned by our party chairman – 2 000 jobs have been lost. I would have liked to say something to export, but my speaking time is over. A final remark may be made: Export success is only rudimentary, as export success to the European Union with a total foreign trade deficit of 101.4 billion shows quite clearly how weak and poor the competitiveness of our domestic economy is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6790	Mr Puttinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6811	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The situation in Austria has already been described many times; Pros and contrasts, as expected in a discussion, in a debate between the government and the opposition. I am happy to live in this Austria with all its positive and negative sides, with all its problems. We will have to attack them in the future, we will have to solve them. We will find solutions in an environment of a total change in society and thus a total change in the economy: Microchips, data autobahns determine the current development. In today's economic debate, I will therefore deal with globalisation, which is associated with such a large number of positive and negative associations, with regard to the economy and also finance. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We of the ÖVP will accept this challenge of the turn of the millennium. We'll master them. We are also aware that a great deal of responsibility will be ours in the future. The national policy of order, which should actually be taken from Parliament by us, is increasingly restricted by an ever-increasing interdependence of economies by increasing trade in goods and capital beyond the national borders. We therefore have to be clear in economic policy that global companies are increasingly fleeing the national framework by focusing on international markets in the future. On the other hand, Austria, with its economic structure, certainly has every opportunity to advance Europeanisation in its operations with our neighbouring countries in the West and, above all, in the East. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we do not forget Europe beyond globalisation, because here the economy can develop in peace, security and great stability. Recently read in the "Zürcher Zeitung": Those who don't risk anything, risk the most. This motto applies to all entrepreneurs. It should also apply to us. We too, the leaders of the policy of order, will in the future create opportunities for entrepreneurs to be able to enter into business and not to leave behind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say a few words about the tax system, because we should also deal with it. Job creation in firms, so financial policy must also be geared towards it. The taxed production factors are different mobile. Portfolio capital has the highest mobility worldwide. As long as the decision has not been taken where the investment is to be made, property capital is, of course, completely mobile, but after this decision no longer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is only more of the work factor left. Work is real-life, one sees from the upper and lower segments of the income range. Mobile capital can hardly be taxed, otherwise there will be an immediate escape response. For taxation of the relatively real factor of work, I believe that we cannot be convinced, and the EIA states that work is no longer taxable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even if it is difficult, we should therefore, as the Minister of Finance has already said today, reflect as quickly as possible on how to achieve supranational harmonisation of capital taxation, especially in the European area. I personally believe that we must have a comprehensive self-esteem of income areas and, for example, introduce eco-taxes only in the European path. This is already covered by the Maastricht Union Treaty, Articles 130r and 130s. High house! Our social market economy is more required and of utmost importance than ever before in its basic ethical attitude, namely common value orientation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This economic ethics corresponds to a certain social attitude and a certain environmental awareness. These are values that each citizen can make the possible contribution to ensuring and improving the quality of life. The ÖVP advocates solidarity and self-responsible economic and social ethics and thus economic and social policy. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is the basis on which we can build and on which we can realize what Joseph Taus once said. He said that the future would be a great adventure, even for the Austrians, also for Austria. That is good for the boys who will have to overcome the challenges that we old people, the older generation, have not even known. We of the ÖVP are on the side of those people who want and want to master this future in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6911	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e6954	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It's not hard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Super!]] [[Abg. Oils: Even faster!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You and your party are always committed to small and medium-sized enterprises that need to be particularly strengthened, promoted and relieved. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We stand up for this! Yes!]] I am now bringing you an example from that country where Mr Kiss and I are allowed to live. There red and black economic competence has once again produced a particularly significant example of successful economic policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Everyone has his examples!]] I am speaking, Mr President, of the establishment of this classical head office in Heiligenkreuz: Lyocell. They know that Lenzing too has tried to do so, but has not got it. Meanwhile 500 jobs have been saved in Lenzing. In Heiligenkreuz, 116 jobs have been created with a total investment of 2.2 billion schilling up to now. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But that's where you were!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Look at the Court of Auditors' report, there it stands, Mr Novotny: 2.2 billion schilling. The country of Burgenland has not had the capital for co-financing and has to borrow a loan in non-EU Switzerland, which can now be repaid over decades. Let us now take a closer look at this presentation in Heiligenkreuz: The start-up took place a year ago, designed for a total production, Mr. Cot, of 80 000 annual tonnes! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You were at the start!]] It is now noted that the market in total requires only 15 000 tonnes of annual tonnes and more than 80 percent of them are delivered by competition. For Lyocell Heiligenkreuz, a segment of lean 12 percent remains. Do you know how much that matters? – 1,800 years! Mr Liaunig has confirmed it to me in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. Bringing total capacity of 80 000 tonnes per year The entire 1 800 on the market, the rest – and it is only a line in operation – goes into the warehouse. However, the storage capacity is exhausted. Do you know what you need to do with the head office now? You have to lock him up in the summer! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You have to lock this "total" head office for six weeks because there is no demand for this product on the market. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But you were for it!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! We were against it!]] 2.2 billion schilling for an operation already locked! This is your economic competence, that is your economic promotion, ladies and gentlemen of red and black. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why were you originally for this?]] We were against it! For we are in favour of these amounts of support going to small and medium-sized enterprises where jobs are really being created. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These socialist economic experts have created entire 116 jobs with 2.2 billion schilling, and now, after a year of operation, must be locked up for six weeks because the warehouses are full. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In addition, something that sounds very complicated, Mr Schwarzenberger: The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr Liaunig, said in the Committee that there was a defibrilization problem with the fibre. In German this means that the fiber dissolves during the processing process. Imagine that! Now the product is still dissolved! It's good that you didn't sell anymore, otherwise you'd break up even more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I want to say: One makes a region hope that the head office will attract countless follow-up companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] So far, there is no follow-up operation in Heiligenkreuz, but the control operation is already closed, because They cannot accommodate the product on the market and because the product has also proved to be unprocessable. You can store the product that dissolves as long as the capacity reaches. If the storage capacity is exhausted, you must lock the operation for six weeks. [[Abg. Oillinger: Then you have to dissolve the product!]] Mr Finanzminister! Liaunig said a sale of Lenzing failed right now because you have the Klotz Lyocell on your leg. The company Heiligenkreuz-Lyocell has thus become a "Klotz am Leg" within a year. That's your economic policy, that's your economic competence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7187	The motion for a resolution read at the outset has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Marizzi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member. [[Ongoing calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Maybe you could convert the whole thing into a incense production!]] I call Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7222	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that not everything the liberals say is wrong and not bad either. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But almost everything!]] But Mr Haider once again said to me today: You're connected to your mafia. . The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, at his fishing visit yesterday, said that the language was to be rescinded. I have looked over to you, you have, of course, clap about it, though very much behavior. But that's your way. You always put things in the room. [[Abg. Meisinger: Tell the Kostelka and the Khol!]] At the time, I took orders for Kindberg for VOEST. I'm proud of that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Haider was in Taiwan, but did not return a single order. He was also often in the U.S., but I didn't notice anything about it. We're here for the economy, we've acquired orders. That's why he can't make me unbroken mafias. Keep back with these things and with such statements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rieß and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Be quiet up there on the bad squares! Mr Haigermoser mentioned the reduction of working time. Is that something wrong? Perhaps there are no ideological differences on this question. Ten years ago, I was in the BMW company's extruded metal mills. At that time, 2,000 people worked there. Last year I was back there: Now only more than 80 employees are working on it. This means that, compared with 800,000 employees in the 1980s, there are only more than 400 000 in the Austrian industry today, but these produce doubles. In my view, it is necessary that work be distributed in some sectors, because otherwise unemployment increases. I say that in some sectors it may be necessary for people to work about 20 hours in 20 years. This is not a left ideology, but simply a distribution mechanism to distribute the work fairly. In my opinion, we can discuss all of this. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: In Robinson-Club he has also "one-folded"!]] Mr Hofmann! The situation of our country is positive in international comparison. I would like to thank Mr Farnleitner and Mr Edlinger, for the conflict-free cooperation at government level in terms of economy, which can be seen from today's two reports, without calling Hallelujah and scattering incense. Let's look at the numbers! Ladies and gentlemen! We are glad that the Austrians can take such positive reports with them in their well-deserved holidays, Mr Prinzhorn. This is not a holiday trip because the climate is positive, and the attitude is also taking place in the head. The criticism of economic policy always under the belt line, and to say again and again that everything is bad, is the right of opposition, but you also have to acknowledge the data. Mr. Haider quoted the press. I'm quoting the "Kurier": "Economics is booming...!" "New Crown Newspaper": "Growth continues to accelerate, inflation is low as rare. Employment records, soon 3.12 million jobs." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] It's still going on. "The default": "Austrian economy in high form." – Of course, these are "government sheets". – "High growth in 1998..." – I could continue. These are facts and facts. The action plan has already been discussed by Mr Feurstein. New teaching professions are coming. I can still quote something – not something, but the Wifo report: "Austria's economy is growing by 3 percent this year – with strong exports of goods and good industrial and investment economies. In 1999, private consumption has a significant role to play in the expansion of the economy as a whole, with economic growth reaching a peak of 3.2 percent. Under these conditions, employment is also expanding and rising to a new record level. Unemployment has declined for the first time since 1994." - Well, is that bad? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: For the opposition already!]] Can't we be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Do you have to make meddling, making things down, reviling, personalizing? This is your political knitting pattern, and with this knitting pattern you stay on the track. That is what I am telling you in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaugg – he is not here now – spoke of a zero-noon round among the workers. – Read the Wifo report! You'll get him! You just need to look at him. This includes the real income for 1998 plus 0.8, for 1999 plus 1.2. Look She asked – and also the Federal Minister for Finance – the ÖIAG report about ten years ago it was a hell-baptism, today it is a performance group, a strategic group of the special class. [[The speaker presented ÖIAG's Annual Report for 1997]] Let us be a little proud, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: But there are other facets!]] One last point fast, I only have one minute: No one's supposed to lose! Mr Gaugg meant that we did not take care of the workers. – Please, who, apart from the Social Democrats, has launched the "Action Fairneß" with the ÖGB in order to achieve the equality of workers with the employees and not to ideologise this question? We are facing a turn of the millennium, and we know exactly how important the employee who is working today is. The differences must be gone. On this question you can vote with us and not always lament and oppose it. Finally, I can only say: The Austrian Federal Government really worked with Elan. This is particularly evident from the notes for Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, in the magazine "News": He has almost got a smooth one that we, Minister of Finance Edlinger, are also proud of. It is excellent that we have such a good finance minister and one, I emphasize, in cooperation so good economic ministers. We are proud of the economic development in Austria, and these two ministers contribute significantly to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7376	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7406	Mr President. Minister! Mr Schwarzenberger! They have praised the agricultural policy from this pult. I do not think you have read the press today, because it says that we have entered a "violent agricultural deficit". I quote: "Unlike the statements of the Ministry of Agriculture and the agricultural market Austria, the deficit in external trade in agricultural primary products is constantly increasing." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You must imagine: In 1995, agricultural imports amounted to 43 billion Schilling, only two years later, in 1997, we have agricultural imports of 53 billion Schilling. Mr Schwarzenberger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. A key point in this article is the following: "The deficit is almost entirely linked to trade with the European Union, and there is a balanced balance with third countries." xxxcr.Sd. . That is to say, because of your policy and despite millions of scrapping actions on the agricultural market in Austria, which brings marketing contributions to farmers, you are unable to finally start an export offensive to the European Union with the Austrian agricultural products you previously promised. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You always make our products bad!]] You are talking about the color like the blind, Mr Schwarzenberger. They make Austrian agriculture a social case! I've been watching you. While Mr Marizzi spoke and praised the increase in real wages among workers, you complained. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is that bad?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Is that bad?]] But in the same case, you make a policy through which farmers' incomes... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I am in favour of everyone taking part in the prosperity!]] Maybe think. You're going to find out who you're actually representing in this house. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are Salzburg farmers' representatives. If you enter the train in Salzburg, you have already forgotten half of the farmers, and if you leave Vienna at the main station, at the Westbahnhof, you have already forgotten all the farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7500	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7521	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr! I am sorry that you have made your speech with personal opinions. I am pleased that some of your group's colleagues did not blow this horn quite. Although I was surprised by some, Mr Prinzhorn, of whom I am actually more used to content. But today his economic contribution was rather empty, which I very much regret, because I also know him differently. Mr Haigermoser has also brought some examples. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Please don't praise too much, it hurts me otherwise!]] Mr Haigermoser! I know you can't stand it, you always have to call in there! The replica is coming. You have attracted a comment from Mr Helmel on young business and young entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I quote!]] - Quoted! It is true that there is God in the Chamber of Commerce, thanks to organizations and young entrepreneurs who come together, who raise demands and who are very successful in consulting new young entrepreneurs, young people who make themselves independent. That means that the young economy with Managing Director Helmel is very successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I never questioned that!]] However, I would like to draw attention to the contributions made by colleagues Dr. Kier, Dr. Schmidt and Mag. Peter come to speak, which are not present now. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Everybody not here!]] Dr. Kier was so sorry that the Minister of Finance was not there during his speech, but Dr. Kier is only present when he speaks, and then he leaves the hall. That means that we can listen to his good proposals, but Replica does not accept them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would like to say to you, Mr Smolle, because you are here: [[Abg. Smolle: I'm here! Yes!]] They keep trying to present the trade order as a major obstacle to the economy. [[Abg. Smolle: That's right! That's true!]] Mr Smolle! Please let me talk. It has changed a lot in the course of history. And especially Dr. Kier, who thinks so much of new ideas, should also read the magazine or the magazine "Kontures". We have received this, and in the number 8 there is a very good contribution from Professor William Bridges, in which it is about job shift. Although this contribution dates back to October 1997, it has already been some time, but still interesting. It shall contain the following: The period of regular full-time jobs lasted from 1840 to 1990, and this time is now over. It has developed something completely new, and at this stage of development, we are now in this reorientation. It is no longer a question of creating employment, but of taking up and managing the work that lies. It is not just a matter of reducing working time. Mr Marizzi said that there are different models of working time in the various sectors of industry. But a general reduction in working time is not the right way, because William Bridges says: Spiritual work is more difficult to share than physical work. We know that since 1970 the level of services has increased considerably in the tertiary sector. In 1970 the European average in the service sector was still 36 percent, now in 1998 it is 50 percent. This shows us how quickly the changes are going to take place. This means that mentality must also change, that we need another mentality in the field of service, which we do not yet have in Austria or only partly. We should consider the Chinese proverb "If you can't smile, you're not supposed to start a business," because you can also do business with smiles and with human commitment, even then. This will therefore be necessary for the future, because physical work is becoming less and less important in Europe, and spiritual work is becoming more and more a priority. In these areas, we have a number of tasks ahead of us for the future. The Austrian Federal Government has only presented the report on the economic situation today. We have already discussed the prospects for the future in other papers, and there is still a lot to be done. We're on the right track. I too am going too slowly, Mr Finance Minister, but perhaps this is the right way to get to the target faster. I believe that Austria is on the right track with all its discussions we have here and there, but it is on the right track to make this transition to the tertiary sector easier than it may be in other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7639	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7661	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will take to heart what Mrs. Tichy-Schreder said: Only those who can smile well can open a business. I will try to smile at the Minister of Finance, of course you too, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, but if that becomes a business, I am not sure about that. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I can't stand that!]] My business in this debate would be to ask for something about active labour market policy, Mr Federal Minister, but I am afraid that the smile will not help me. I hope that you and us will not lose sight of what is happening in this area, Mrs Tichy-Schreder. But a preliminary remark. Many newspapers have already been quoted, I also quote one, namely today's "Neue Zürcher Zeitung". The local part reads: Even in June, much less unemployed. The Federal Economic Office expects a drop to 100 000 people affected. – I can still remember those times when Austria smiled and said: They will look, now they have the problem of unemployment! But obviously – I do not want to interpret this in extenso now – Switzerland is at least doing much better with the problem of unemployment than Austria. Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! There are 130 000 unemployed in Switzerland! The national quota fell from 3.9 to 3.6 percent within one month. It is expected that by the end of the year, unemployment will fall to 100 000 unemployed. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: How much service and how much production is there?]] Of course the question is justified, Mrs Tichy-Schreder! What's the cause of this? – One reason for this, Minister of Finance – I am once again smiling – is that Switzerland has spent much more on active labour market policies than Austria. Now I am in your statement, Mr. Federal Minister, in which you said: Through the National Action Plan, the Federal Government has provided the necessary additional money. That's not true at all, but it's not at all! The National Action Plan is a slender coloss on very dry legs. The only thing contained in the National Action Plan and protected by material means is a programme to combat youth unemployment. There are figures, but nowhere else are figures and measures included. In the introduction you will find the remarkable note: We have to negotiate this first. In the budget negotiations for 2000 and the following years, the funds for this National Action Plan must first be secured. Now I am surprised to see that at a meeting in Innsbruck, Mrs Federal Minister Hostasch said that this way in which the national action plans were drawn up by the Member States was not given any specific figures and no means were given, because something had to change, as the EU countries under the Austrian Presidency had to do something different. Ladies and gentlemen! You could have decided this long ago in the National Action Plan, which originally included concrete figures and measures; My colleague, Mr President, can certainly confirm this, at least I have a very clear view of it. Now Austria is in the situation that there is obviously no additional funding for the National Action Plan, nor can the existing level of active labour market policy be guaranteed. It is interesting that the Minister of Economic Affairs is there and says that he would like to have a bonus-malus system in the context of unemployment insurance, so that the unemployed can qualify better or more motivated. Mrs Reitsamer! They know that the bonus has been removed for the unemployed. This bonus has so far been an aid to the unemployed who claim an education and qualification measure, so that the unemployed have an incentive to qualify for a living. In addition to the unemployment allowance, this bonus has been an additional allowance so that the unemployed have an incentive to qualify. As a result of the savings measures, the aid was removed in the area of labour market services to cover the livelihood. Why, then, does the Minister of Economic Affairs make himself and say that we want a bonus malus system? – Obviously, after the bonus has been deleted, he can only have a malus for the unemployed in the eye or in mind. Is this what you want, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Khol has already said before, or do you really intend to do something for the unemployed? [[Abg. Silhavy: Did you not listen to Minister Edlinger?]] I remember – you should be careful! – that it is not only about the removal of the aid to cover the livelihood, but also about the fact that the AMS has for several months reduced the childcare allowance from three years to one year in parallel to this beautiful summit in Innsbruck. That is to say, those women who are to be allowed to re-enter the labour market, which is also one of the measures of the National Action Plan, are punished by the withdrawal of funds, by the refusal of longer-term care. And it is not only these women who are affected, but of course also those women who do the care themselves. Another example, Mr. Federal Minister: Academic training has so far been one of the measures in the field of active labour market policy, which was largely undisputed. Since mid-June, academic training in Vienna and Lower Austria has been removed. - I don't know in which other federal states. Are these the measures you want to take to get young people into employment? Obviously, there are not only deficits, but also an additional form of reform, because one thing I can say to you: As important and meaningful measures are among apprentices, measures in the field of other young beginners would be equally necessary. Obviously, you're out there now. What about the older unemployed? – For one or two years, unemployment rates have been moving in two-digit percentages. Where are the measures taken by the Federal Government in the context of an active labour market policy? What about the women's counseling services? – Throughout the federal territory, the women's advisory bodies that organise the care of these women, the re-primary women, who offer them corresponding re-entry programmes are deleted. In Lower Austria, Upper Austria, everywhere these are deleted. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, one could add the socio-economic employment projects that have been folded together in recent years. Are these the measures you are announcing here, for which additional necessary money has been made available? Don't try to sell us the blue from heaven down, ladies and gentlemen! None of the promises made by you, the They have made them and today have announced how the Minister of Economic Affairs, with his bonus malus system or the comments regarding the additional funds, has stood up for a closer examination. There are no additional means! My colleague Van der Bellen has just mentioned that this economic report cannot be studied. But if you look at the table on active labour market policy only on page 104, you will notice that in 1997 7.4 billion were estimated, and in 1998 only 6.7 billion. So there is no additional means. The only additional means you can make – but these are not additional funds, because the unemployed themselves pay for them – are the conversions of passive benefits into active. Then at the end of the year you will be able to say: We spent more. In fact, the unemployed pay for this out of their own cash. One more point, Minister of State: Would it not have been necessary – and I would have liked to have a concrete answer to that, Mr Federal Minister – to point out, in the context of a report as you have put it today, that the estimated unemployment rates for the 1998 and 1999 budget are not sustainable? Would it not have been necessary to point out that much more expenditure in the area of unemployment insurance funds must be made available than has actually been budgeted? In 1998 we have an unemployment rate of 6.9 percent. In the most likely case, we will reach 7.3 percent. This means, as is the case with the unemployed, additional expenditure of between 1 and 2 billion. Where are you taking these, Minister of State? – What is your answer? It does not look much better for 1999 either, even if one can expect optimistic forecasts to be expected to be possible. But the 1998 deficit remains and will be incorporated into the 1999 budget. And I would have liked to know who would have to do this. Federal Minister! Theoretically, it would have been possible for two or three years to reduce the insurance contribution by the amount spent on the unemployed. That would be possible at any time. But you have taken a longing look at the budget of unemployment insurance and you think that the unemployed do not need so much, we do not need so much for active labour market policies, we are one of the European finalists anyway, so I take the money for pension insurance and distribute it in this pot. Federal Minister! Isn't that also a problem with the wrong redistribution? – The contributions to pension insurance, unemployment insurance and unemployment insurance are paid only by the self-employed. In pension insurance, the self-employed also take part from the redistribution to pension insurance because the deficit is one of the highest. That is to say, the unemployed insured, the contributors also pay, Mr Maderthaner, the pension deficit of the self-employed. This is probably also the reason why the economy is relatively quiet and does not demand any withdrawal of unemployment insurance contributions, no extension of the funds for active labour market policy, but is quite satisfied with the fact that a hole is stopped, which would rather be stopped by the self-employed. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The argument has always been wrong!]] Mr Maderthaner! But if we are not only discussing the budget report, but also, as yesterday, distribution issues – even if it was only very short – then perhaps we should include in the reflections for a budget of the next few years that a little more budgetary truth would be said, not only in the preparation of unemployment figures, but also in the way you finance a pot from the other pot. I would also be interested, Mr Federal Minister, as you really intend to pursue active labour market policies with sufficient resources and on a standard that would not only be internationally comparable to Switzerland, but would finally reach the EU average, so that the unemployed in this country – there are not only the youth unemployed but also other groups – can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7742	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7764	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Council! Thank you very much for supporting the call of the liberals for wage tax reduction to pay off cold progression so permanently! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I only hope, Mr President, that you will stand firm in your parliamentary club because you are in contradiction with your tax and financial spokesman, Novotny. So we'll see who wins here! Mr President of the Council! They also drew up a number of cover proposals: Taxation of speculation gains. [[Abg. Conspicuous: I still think of something: VAT refund!]] – I only have 4 minutes! But I ask you: Do you really want to break the delicate plant called the capital market in Austria before it's still blooming at all? - Here you need to be careful! [[Abg. To whose burdens?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But basically a yes to taxation of speculation profits. Second point: higher taxation of assets. Mr President. Get out with the language! Which wealth do you want to tax higher? – The capital income is already taxed at the end of the year. Do you want to reintroduce the asset tax again? Do you want to re-tax the operating assets? Or – and here the circle closes – do you want to tax the basic assets? Single value increase? – Yesterday we heard everything about it, you have demented that it is not all true! The SPÖ does not want a single value increase, but it wants to re-tax the assets. Mr President. What wealth? Professor Novotny! You called Professor Haidinger, who died too early yesterday, a culprit who had brought about the discussion about the increase in unit values. That's not true! They have already called for the increase in unit values to transport values in 1996 and this is documented in writing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! Tax harmonisation – yes. I'll give you all the right. Late, but come. You're on it! We were free people who, before joining the EU, already called for the harmonisation of economic systems, social systems and the tax system within the framework of homework. Federal Minister! As long as it is not possible at European level to convert the VAT system from the country of destination to the country of origin principle, you will not be able to prevent billions of fraud in the field of sales tax. – There you can collect taxes, but not with the little people! Federal Minister! They meant, not statistics, but facts. Just the day when the beginning of the EU Presidency of Austria was celebrated at Heldenplatz, there were the following economic pages in the "Salzburger Nachrichten", Federal Minister "Panalpina deletes 570 jobs. [[the speaker keeps the newspaper up to date]] Koflach: 150 employees are terminated. Afraid of TRW continues. No agreement on social plan. 700 jobs – in my home village of Bergheim – are "hazardous." What does the Head of Europe of the TRW say? – He calls production relocation legitimate, although the Bergheim plant continues to make profits in the operating business. That is the Europe of the Group, that is the Turbo-Capitalism, which we do not want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In conclusion: Mr Marizzi, on the ÖIAG report: Yes, we can be proud in principle! But only three key figures. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] OMV-AG: 1995 turnover: 73 billion Schilling, 1997: 83 billion schilling; Operating success: 2 billion, 1997: 5.7 billion; Staff stand up – now, colleague Marizzi! – 1995: 9,600, 1997: 7,934; the dividend increased by 8 percentage points. This is an economic policy on the back of the workers we reject!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7857	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades on EU contributions. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gaugg and Mr Comrades on the need for marketing activities with a view to the application of Klagenfurt for the 2006 Winter Olympics. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1284 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 1999 (BFG-Novelle 1999) (1329 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7927	I now call item 2 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. The first speech is by Mr Dr. Haider. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e7954	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This request is therefore necessary because the Federal Finance Act provides for a corresponding legal guarantee of possible guarantees by the Austrian Federal Government. You know that, in September of this year, the candidate city of Klagenfurt, together with the Austrian Olympic Committee, must be able to issue the guarantee for the performance of the Olympic Games of 14 billion schilling. This guarantee has not yet been negotiated. There have been discussions at official level. As we have been able to learn today, the Minister of Finance has not yet been confronted with any detail of this regulation. That means that there is a chaotic state of acceptance of liability – and that just before the end of the summer break of Parliament, which will no longer come together. And in September, Klagenfurt must already submit his application. Without a constitutional takeover of guarantees, it is completely excluded that Klagenfurt and Carinthia have an opportunity to be accepted as candidates at the IOC. That is why we have tabled this request. However, I would also like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of the government parties to the fact that § 66 of the Federal Budget Act, under the title of federal liability, requires: § 66 (1): A liability (guarantee) according to § 1346f ABGB or warranty of the federal government may only take over the Federal Minister of Finance. The latter may assume liability only in accordance with the powers contained in the Federal Finance Act or in a special federal law within the meaning of Article 42(5) of the B-VG, and in particular must ensure that liability is assumed only in respect of obligations relating to projects specified in the relevant legal authorisation. The Austrian Government's plan to assume these responsibilities only by a government decision is first of all non-constitutional, second legally non-binding, and thirdly, it presents the danger that the offer and the candidate of Klagenfurt for the Olympic Games will not be accepted as conforming to the IOC. This is the reason why we take this initiative and take the lead, to which we also invite colleagues from the other parties to participate, because basically it is not a question of whether the opposition or the government is making this request, but rather of a constitutional, legally binding regulation of the acceptance of liability, which, in the event that it is not taking place today, is seriously at risk of the Olympic Games and the candidacy of Klagenfurt and Carinthia. I also call on Mr Leikam, who is aware of this situation, to convince his colleagues in the government parties that we now have the opportunity and should no longer allow ourselves to accept that this problem could be solved by a non-binding decision of the Federal Government. We have made this provision for the 1999 budget, which we now have to decide so that we can demonstrate to the IOC the constitutional state, for otherwise we will be told: Dear friends, these are empty kilometers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not even the provisions laid down in the Constitution and in budgetary law are complied with. If it is serious to you that you really want to promote the Olympic Games in the southernmost federal state, then you must not give faith to the masters of the government parties who want to push it to the long bank, but then today you must make nails with heads, but then the government parties must also jump over their shadows and now authorize the Minister of Finance to assume these liabilities.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8039	The request just read has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Gartlehner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8064	Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are implementing a federal financial law novelle, which essentially implements the activities of the coalition government, which were set out in the Coalition Agreement, into reality. It is essentially a question of disseminating services, which were agreed in the last coalition pact, to "phase them out of the Roomalist area" and, so to speak, to bring them into a business dimension, because the practical work, the daily work in this area, can thus be considerably facilitated. It is essentially about the Bundessportheime and the Bundesmuseen, with the Kunsthistorische Museum being started for the first time, and of course also about the Bundestheater and the Umweltbundesamt. The debate on this matter took place in itself yesterday late evening. We are now dealing, as it were, with the monetary impact on our budget for the coming year. Of course, we Socialists do not agree to this amendment. It is essentially a reengineering, if you like, of our administrative areas, which we have today brought into a modern and internationally comparable constellation with this step. This will allow these institutions to act more flexibly and innovatively, that they will also be more autonomous in the budgetary field than they have been, and that the creativity of the superiors in these institutions and institutions may be demanded, but also introduced. In the medium term, of course, this also has monetary implications for the federal budget, in the form that, by changing away from official status into ASVG's income and pension rights, there are, of course, considerable savings in pensions, and we are trying to increase these potentials of cost savings for the artistic competition and also for the sporting activities and to get back into the process, so to speak, to change the structure for the benefit of the institutions themselves. I would just like to say so much to the request of the Liberal Party – one feels already the coming country election campaign in Carinthia – that it is logical and clear that the Austrian Federal Government is actively supporting this Olympic Party and that it is also safe to assume its monetary liability. However, I would ask you to take account of the fact that these Olympic Games will take place in 2006 and that we will have a great many more budgets. [[Abg. Gaugg: Until 1. Give up on September!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Now is the end! Yes or no!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Of course, a declaration from the Austrian Federal Government is sufficient, but it has not yet been made to the Minister of Finance – and I ask your Klagenfurt friends to do so. However, I can confirm now - the colleagues from the ÖVP will do the same - that there will certainly be no problem from this title with the Olympic Games in 2006. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8121	Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8142	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I welcome the request made by Dr Haider, who clearly states that the Freedom Party is now behind the Senza Confini application, that, as I hope, it should now be able to enter the site unconditionally for these joint Olympic Games with Klagenfurt, Friuli and Slovenia. This is a unique opportunity for this area, the south of Austria and its neighbouring neighbouring countries to recover not only economically but also socially. I think it's smart. What I do not understand is – perhaps I may be able to interrupt Mr Finanzminister briefly; They may make a brief statement afterwards – why the commitment of liability, which is common when a city operates for the Olympic Games, in view of the fact that the 1. The date is September until today. I would be very grateful if you would make a brief statement on this, because it cannot be the task of a single political group to draw the attention of the Federal Government to the fact that this liability is up to 1. September is necessary, and the High House can only do this until 1 September. Decisions of September. A brief comment on this government template: The early budget decision was affected by the disbursements and must therefore be amended. We Liberals welcome the economic management that is structurally possible through outlays. We are sure that quality and productivity can be increased and that sustainable controlling can also be introduced. We already discussed this yesterday late evening. However, we parliamentarians should always be aware of the fact that state property and many issues will continue to be monopolized, without direct control by Parliament and without the right to interact. I always think this is a double-edged sword. We will therefore need to study very carefully the Court of Auditors' reports on these distributed undertakings, which are concerned with public funds in most areas. This will be our only way to control whether these distributed - to a large extent - monopoly economies are sound, target-oriented and performance-oriented. I'll hold you once again. Yesterday it was very little time to address the fact that, as a parliamentarian, with this section 3 concerning the exclusion of the Bundessportheime, which gives Mr Bundeskanzler a free letter to sell, share or pass on to the Bundessportheimen all this part of the Federal Sports Homes, I am not satisfied with such an authorisation paragraph. It would be much wiser if the government were to put forward a concrete proposal to Parliament, which we could then accept or reject as representatives of the population. All in all, we agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8186	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8205	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer very briefly to the amendment tabled by Dr. Haider, Dolinschek, Gaugg and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it shows the "seriosity" - under quotation marks - of this request, which is a liability of 14 billion schilling, that we have been sent to it for a quarter of an hour before decision-making. That's "serious" work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read the household law, dear friend!]] Mr Haider, rapporteur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Obviously only for the media scene! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the matter itself, I can tell you the following: There is no question that the government parties are fully behind this Olympic application of Klagenfurt and Carinthia. There is no doubt about that at all! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On whether and to what extent parliamentary decisions are necessary for the acceptance of liability: I have heard in this quarter of an hour that we had time that the IOC was satisfied with a Council of Ministers decision. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's where you had to cheat!]] We will then also accept this in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: When?]] It is quite enough, Mr President, if we do so at the time. The Klagenfurts, the Carinthians, can rely on the two government groups to ensure that, contrary to all the polemics of the opposition, this candidate is very much supported.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8304	Mr Haider referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8325	Mr President. In view of the fact that this need for the acceptance of liability in the negotiations has already been known for half a year, but the coalition parties want to consult, I request a break in the session to ensure that this application is properly made possible at the Olympic Games in Klagenfurt and Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8350	Deputies! May I ask you for the purpose of interrupting the sitting?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8365	(continuing) (for business treatment): In order for the coalition parties to agree on a request that you do not seem to take note of.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8401	I have Mr Van der Bellen's speech. That would be the last word on this point. Is there also a desire for interruption on the part of other groups in the House? [[No-run at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grabner: To the Rules of Procedure!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8436	Our group does not think that there is a need for interruption. It was only half a year ago that the decision was taken, and only now has Carinthia submitted all the necessary financial documents. The Council of Ministers will take decisions in good time, and this is more than enough for the International Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8469	I note that there is no wish for a partsession to be suspended. I am therefore not interrupting the sitting, but rather giving the floor to Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – No one seems on the speaker list right now. Come on.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8496	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have pointed out, the government template draws on the consequences of different distributions of federal sports institutions, museums, the Federal Environment Agency and theatre. My group is not in principle opposed to exclusions, quite the contrary, especially when it comes to the transfer of facilities which can be exposed to a market risk, so that the appropriate mechanisms of the market can work. But today, Mr Peter, we also have the Federal Environment Agency, and since we voted against this type of exclusion and privatisation at the Federal Environment Agency yesterday, we will not agree to this BFG-Novelle either. But apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister of Finance, as always one stands on disbursements in detail, I would like to point out one thing: These breakdowns, as they may be in individual cases, have the problem that transparency, the transparency of the budget as a whole suffers from them regularly. That is why we have already tabled a self-evident proposal which is not to be voted on today, which will soon be negotiated in the Committee on Budgets, and I would ask you, Minister of Finance, to keep your commitment from the Committee that we can talk about these matters in peace. I think that a few amendments to the Federal Budget Act, for example in the area of § 98, could already create much more transparency here. And only when it came to the balance sheets, i.e. the asset and debt accounts and the successful accounts, i.e. the GUV accounts, from such distributed entities – in so far as they have not become fully companies exposed to the market risk – will in future also be included in the Federal Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8529	Mrs Hagenhofer has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8550	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I hereby propose the following amendment to the 1999 Federal Finance Act: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8608	Mr Edlinger has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this BFG-Novelle is necessary, because since the decision-making of the BFG in 1999 in the National Council plenary session, a number of detailed discussions have taken place which now allow further disseminations: the Federal Sports Institutions, the Art History Museum, the Umweltbundesamt and the Bundestheater. The aim is to ensure that these facilities can operate more efficiently, efficiently and cost-effectively in the future. Professor Van der Bellen! Of course, we are also working to implement those considerations which have been jointly recognised in the Committee in order to ensure more transparency, as the Secretary of State in the Committee has stated. We will change the structures in such a way that the lack of transparency, which is rightly criticised by a greater number of outlays, is eliminated, because at the end of the day some out-of-budgets are being played out, and of course the Members also get those documents or the structure of the documents, which will enable them to recognise the consequences accordingly. Finally, I would like to refer to Mr Dr. Haider's amendment states that there is no question at all that Austria is interested in the 2006 Olympic Games coming to Klagenfurt. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Peter and Dr. Van der Bellen.]] That really does not require any amendment. The Federal Government will therefore also take the relevant decisions in good time. What surprises me, however, is the ease with which there is a liability framework of 14 billion schilling – this is a substantial amount – that is being passed over – and that is precisely what a party who always thinks it is possible to deal with with with a lot of sparing, with very great determination of reflections – although today, after the negotiations, one knows that a much smaller amount is necessary to apply for these Olympiads. I am very sorry that even an event that can serve the whole country when it takes place will be the subject of party political attacks. I deeply regret this! 14.1 1 [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Since when is an application an attack?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8675	Mr Dr. Haider has now been reported on the floor. Second word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8697	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! That is why I have spoken because your arrogance from the government bank is no longer to be surpassed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: What does arrogance mean? That's a terrible thing!]] They've known since the 14th century. On the basis of a motion for a resolution adopted by the Council (Doc. Your government parties have decided that you will be under pressure of time and will have to make it possible to accept liability in accordance with the law before the summer. You know that you are Minister of Finance that you are not allowed to take over any guarantees on behalf of the Federal Government which are not covered by law. You know that the offer must be submitted to the International Olympic Committee at the beginning of September, but no Parliament will meet at the beginning of September, which could assume the responsibility. They therefore risk to a significant extent the successful candidate Carinthia and Klagenfurt for these Olympic Games. I have to tell you this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You yourself, as Minister of Finance by your officials a month ago, provided that the consents of the municipalities, the countries as well as the liability of Slovenia and the liability of Friuli must be made available, then you would assume these 13.8 billion schilling liabilities. All this is ahead, and now you're holding back. It is really disgraceful how you deal with the interests of the southernmost federal state!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8750	The request previously made by Mrs Hagenhofer was properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Leikam is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e8775	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear in detail: If someone is threatening the Olympic application of Klagenfurt in 2006, Dr. Haider, that's you! Then that's only you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Boy: That's where the chickens are!]] I don't need to remind you of what happened in Carinthia a few weeks ago. With a reason for the redundancies of Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Grasser was also that Grasser could not work anymore, although he was quite trying to get involved in this application. [[Abg. Aumayr: Bullshit!]] But you did not like that something goes on for this application. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Lively calls for intercession with the liberals, including: This is a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Such a fool! That's what you have to listen to! Such an argument is embarrassing!]] The Carinthian Members in their ranks know the reporting of the "Small Newspaper", which is not a social democratic newspaper at all. It clearly and clearly stated that Dr. Haider as an opposition politician cannot be interested in the fact that the Olympic Games are taking place in Carinthia. [[New call for tender Aumayr]] This newspaper made clear debt allocations as to why this conflict occurred in Carinthia. [[Abg. Aumayr: What about the default liability?]] Grasser was forbidden to travel abroad with the other competitors, with Zernatto and Extraordinary Wigglers, to advertise for Olympia Klagenfurt 2006. [[Lively misconceptions at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That was with a reason why he resigned, ladies and gentlemen. Do not make yourself appear to be as shambles today as if the Federal Government or Parliament were shambles. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: The grass has rubbed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind you that it was only a few months ago that a written parliamentary question was put to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Aumayr: What about the default liability?]] Mr. Dr. Grollisch, Dr. Haider and colleagues were the questioners. Question 9 has stated whether the German Chancellor had intervened personally with the Austrian Olympic Committee so that Klagenfurt won the domestic application, whether it would not have been more meaningful – literally in there – to prefer a candidate who does not join other partners in these Olympic games. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] That was a parliamentary question a few months ago. You made it clear at that time that you are not for Carinthia. You have clearly stated that you do not want this joint application, but a purely internal application. [[Abg. Aumayr: That was a question!]] [[Pfui-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Read your own written request and also the answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When today the deadline application of the liberals was submitted, I also telephoned the current managing director, Dr. Kalt, and asked him again: What is actually expected now? What does the application committee need to be able to submit the application to the IOC in good time at the beginning of September? [[Abg. Aumayr: The arrest!]] There are clear rules here. All these requirements require the declaration of guarantee by individual ministers, quite specifically by the Minister of Finance, quite specifically by the Minister of the Interior and quite specifically by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, in turn, doubles as head of the Federal Government and, on the other hand, also works for the candidate city of Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you heard anything about a legal order?]] There are guarantees here, and it is sufficient for the International Olympic Committee to ensure that these declarations are made by the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I should like to remind you that Parliament has already adopted a unanimous motion for a resolution in this direction and has clearly expressed Parliament's will here. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is unconstitutional!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You break the Constitution!]] That is the current situation. No longer and no less is the International Olympian Committee. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Mr Leikam! Have you ever heard of a legal order? Sometime?]] Mr Dkfm. Bauer, you were once State Secretary, and that wasn't the best phase of your career. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] That's all I want to say. There are quite different views about this. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You didn't even get it that far!]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course important to note that this Carinthian application is on a good track. No question at all! It's working. There is therefore enormous progress in all areas. We have excellent opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They're gonna play you!]] However, these permanent crossovers from the ranks of the Freedom Party certainly do not do well with the application. In no case do they do this application well. And if you're talking about costs, and you're going to run 13,8 billion schillings, and then you're going to run 14 billion again, you can see how seriously such an application is supposed to be. Hundreds of millions of schillings no longer play a role at all; once there are 14 billion, once it is 13.8 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They will be paid!]] That too is wrong, even that is wrong! Last status – and I am willing to inform you officially here today –: 7.6 billion schilling costs the execution, costs the organization of the Olympic Games. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No!]] 7.6 billion schilling. Last stand. In addition, we have 2.4 billion Schilling infrastructure. There is still some uncertainty there and there, because national roads are supposed to be with them, which are not the task of the federal government, and so on. So that's not even 10 billion schilling in total, but you're talking about 13.8 or 14 billion schilling here. This is not serious, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. Serios is what is calculated, what has been worked out, which has been prepared by hundreds of employees and is on the table. ==References====External links== This guarantee declaration on this amount is made on July and, if it is necessary to do so, we can make the relevant decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But!]] But there is no reason to dramatize here and pretend to be the savior of the Olympic Games. You may be the graves of these games! At least your previous procedure was to be interpreted in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9103	Excuse me, Mr. Deputies. Mr Grollitsch has reported an actual correction. This must be done before. Mr. Dr. Grollitsch! Please make an actual correction. The relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9133	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Leikam has just interpreted a question on the content in his speech and mis-quotes item 8. [[Abg. Leikam: Point 9!]] I'm correcting: He misquoted point 9. [[Abg. Arbitrator: What did he say?]] Trend of request it is the application...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9200	Please refer first to the facts to be corrected and then make the correction clear from your point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9215	Mr Leikam has wronged the actual content or the tendency of the question... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not the trend!]] Mr Leikam has, in fact, interpreted the trend of this question with the following words:... Mr President! [[Further calls to representatives of the SPÖ.]] I ask for protection to be allowed to express myself in the sense of the provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9251	Member, please use your right of speech. Determine the facts to be corrected and apply the correction! - That, please, within 2 minutes. I ask the House to listen, too. In other words, I cannot see if there is any actual correction or not. I will extend this 2 minutes speaking time for the duration of my own statements. So you have a little longer than 2 minutes in total. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9269	I take note of the gag and correct point 9: [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Is it true that you personally sought individual members of the OOC for Carinthia with the argument that this decision could bring a political competitive advantage for you in the 1999 country election...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9311	High house! I don't understand at all what's being said at the speaker's desk. I'm sorry, I don't understand. I refer to President Fischer's comment, in which it is explicitly stated that the acoustics in the room are the worst. I ask you to accept this by silence. I'm going to find out whether it was an actual correction or not. Member of the Grollitsch! Once again, I would like to draw your attention strictly to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'll let you in for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9329	I have no doubt that I am trying to quote Mr Leikam's fact-finding statement, which refers to item 9 of the question and to the trend of the question. [[Abg. Leikam: Read it!]] I have now read to you the actual point 9 of the request. This has nothing to do with the interpretation by Mr Leikam. The meaning of the request clearly and clearly referred to the support of the application "Senza confini" and not...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9381	Deputies! The 2 minutes plus addition have expired. This was an actual correction only if the most detailed interpretation was made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say that what we have heard should not be taken as an example of actual corrections. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Mr Smolle has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9420	Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, the election campaign has begun in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! You are once again the best constituency for the Lord sitting here in the first row. You should go in there and be critical with yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Smolle as adjutant of Haider!]] This is a failure of the Federal Government. What the IOC requires is a chapter, but what we have to observe here in this House is laws, and we have to create the prerequisite for liability. Mr Haider! If you were a serious, serious politician, if the country of Carinthia was really in your heart, you would have long drawn the attention of the Federal Government and the Members to this issue in the interest of a goal-setting process and not organized such an annual market on this serious subject. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 14. May!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] This is exactly the point in which we differ from you. We shall support your request because we believe that it is correct in content. We can't check the liability framework from here. The officials are also unable to clarify whether there will be this or the liability framework mentioned by Leikam. This is, of course, primarily to be written to the negative account of the Federal Government. Do you understand? We can only put FPÖ in its barriers by means of a good policy, but not by the fact that we have to improve government errors here in Parliament on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9477	Mr Haider has reported on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9502	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Smolle claimed that it was not an example of a serious policy to attack the Federal Government with a 14-billion guarantee statement. That's wrong. I note: ==References====External links== A motion for a resolution with the guarantees to be applied in this regard and the detailed assessments to be made on this subject in May 1998. This has led the government parties to adopt a similar motion for a resolution at the same meeting. So it has been known to the Ministry of Finance for more than a month that this 14-billion-shilling arrest is to be carried out here, as you say correctly, to establish a constitutional and law-compliant state.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9538	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9559	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I ask two questions: Why is there this hesitant attitude, and what is the inadequacy in introducing an amendment? To date, I have not been able to explain this to the Federal Minister for Finance. What is wrong with someone making an application to ensure that Olympic games can not only be applied but also performed? – First of all, this is the subject. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Emotionalized and polemized Mr Leikam, who, of course, is particularly bothering the forthcoming election, because he still does not know who his top candidate in Carinthia will be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has only received a gallow period from his comrades – a gallow period until October of this year, if he should not become "Wonderwuzi". [[Abg. Leikam: I know I'm coming back to Parliament! You don't know that! Do you know if you're still here next? You don't know if you'll be there tomorrow!]] The Magdalensberg decision for your aliens has therefore become necessary, Mr President, because he has also massively failed in the Olympic question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For months, it was useless because a certain Novak, which you preferred, was appointed Olympic Manager. Apart from traveling through the lands, he has done nothing at all. What is happening now is what Dieter Kalt has to do now, based on the pile that you have caused. You're the big manager. They have been used by the Office of the Carinthian State Government as the major manager for the national exhibitions. But you have completely failed to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pleitemanager!]] The communities are pleading, they stand in front of the Kadi, but you are the one who wants to talk about management and the like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Have courage and represent not party political interests, but interests of the country of Carinthia! That would be good for you. I'll tell you now what the truth is and why you're so upset: First of all, you have overlooked the date for the guarantee of liability, second of all, it hurts you that now our top candidate Dr. Jörg Haiderin Kärnten with the best prospects goes to the election. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They are just afraid that the topic of "Olympiade" does not remain that of the SPÖ. Thank God! Because wherever the SPÖ in Carinthia has their fingers in it, something goes by. There you are, one that makes the seriality particularly missing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] (Completed xxx) ==References====External links== Today we write the 9th. In July 1998, and there is still no line on the guarantee and its main part, point 18. I ask you again: What do you have on the 14th? Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's what I'm asking you today and now. If you have a spark of responsibility for the country of Carinthia, you agree to this amendment!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9650	Mr Leikam has reported on an actual correction. I do not think I have to repeat the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9675	Mr President. High house! I am correcting Mr Gaugg's statement, which meant that I would have been the great managers at two national exhibitions, that the exhibitions would have been a flop and that the communities would be in front of the judge. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Coordinator was you! Were you a coordinator or not?]] I'm correcting: All three accusations are completely wrong. I wasn't the manager at these exhibitions. I was a staff member in the exhibition office with a very concrete area of activity, which I also fully fulfilled. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And now we have a pleite!]] Secondly, both exhibitions were well attended, many of which were able to convince themselves personally. Only one Member was not present. That was Mr. Haider, who did not take the Carinthian exhibitions...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9714	I would ask you to respect the provisions for actual corrections.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9730	The third: There was no congregation in front of the Kadi, but all the national exhibitions have been properly billed.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9789	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A conclusion by the rapporteur does not take place. We are entering the voting procedure. I would ask the honourable Members to take the place for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1284 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1329 of the Supplements. Mr Haider and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. In addition, MEPs have Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler, Dr. Van der Bellen, Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Peter and comrades submitted an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposals and then on the draft law. Mr Haider and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point in Article I concerning Article IX, and I would like to ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. There has been a call for a vote. As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must be carried out. I shall carry out this nameable vote in such a way that Members are called in alphabetical order and the vote will be taken by oral procedure from the House of Deputies. For the purpose of the vote, I ask the votesmen to rise from the place after calling for a name and to reply in a loud and clear way. Those Members, for the additional request of Mr Dr. Haider and comrades vote, I seek to answer only – I add: clearly – with "Yes" and those who vote against it, exclusively and equally clearly with "No". I also ask you not to comment on these exclusive words. By repeating the name of the honourable Member and by reflecting his voting behaviour, I will also try to clarify or create clarity about voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, I will expressly note this. I'll start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9860	That's the end of the name call. I am interrupting the sitting with a view to counting the votes. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 1.43 p.m. and resumed at 14.48 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e9887	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. As we are in the voting procedure and continue to vote, I ask that we take the place again. I announce the results of the vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades: 162 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 50, "No" voices: 112. The additional request is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gatterer, Gaugg, Count, Gredler, Grollitsch; Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Chief, Hofmann; Young; Klein, Koller, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Marolt, Meischberger, Meisinger, Moser Gabriela, Motter; Nut trees; Of which: Oils; Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rieß; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Smolle, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wormitzer. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer; Eder, Edler, Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gazner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kampichler, Karlsson, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, King, Konrad, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser-Starrach, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederweiser, Nowotny; Oberhaidinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, smoke-callat, riding, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm; Zweytick. We shall now proceed to the vote on another supplementary request. Deputies Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler, Dr. Van der Bellen, Ing. Gartlehner, Mag. Peter and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point in Article I concerning Article VII. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1329 of the Supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give the draft law the same sign at third reading. – This is done by the majority. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1258 of the Supplements): 1. Service law Novelle 1998 (1321 of Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1081 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Ukraine on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and the Protocol (1322 of Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (942 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (1323 of the supplements) 6. Point Report by the Financial Committee on motion for a resolution 711/A (E) by Mr Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrond comrades concerning the privatisation of state-owned companies (1324 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Financial Committee on motion for a resolution 683/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Hauptand comrades concerning the classification of postgraduate graduates (1325 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 375/A by Dr Hans Peter Haselsteiner and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Stock Exchange Act 1989 (1326 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10174	I now call on Agenda items 3 to 8, on which the debate is being held under one. Mr Höchtl, rapporteur, spoke on a print error correction. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10192	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am only in favour of a print error correction in the report of the Financial Committee in 1321 of the supplements on the Government template 1258 of the supplements relating to the 1. Service law Novelle 1998. I correct a print error in the Committee's report in 1321 of the Supplements as follows: On page 5 of the report, the Committee notes that the word 'coordination' should be replaced by the word 'coordination'. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10213	Thank you very much, rapporteur. There is no further desire for oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Böhacker was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Toboggan Association. Mr Höchtl! The next few weeks and months will certainly be exciting, because the government parties have just rejected the acceptance of liability for the performance of the Olympic Games in Klagenfurt. At the same time, a few minutes ago, the Minister of Finance stated that he would use this to bring about appropriate decisions in the Council of Ministers. Now I don't know myself anymore. Does the Federal Government want to make a decision against the majority in the House? Does she want to turn off the high house? This is really a very interesting situation. Mr Leikam! Does this really mean the end of an application for the Olympic Games in Klagenfurt? That's a really interesting thing. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I think you have done a bad job with your voting behaviour in the country of Carinthia and the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now on the agenda item Service Law-Novelle 1998. I have already said in the Committee that this convoluted, this government proposal, which amends or amends 21 laws, is absolutely unreadable. [[Interference of Federal Minister Edlinger.]] It's almost impossible to read. Mr Finanzminister! I only have 4 minutes. If you had been in the committee, you would have heard the argument of representatives of the government parties, but you sent your Secretary of State, who is also competent in the field. That's recognised. The fact is, however, that this government template is practically unreadable. Anyone who agrees to this law today is, from my point of view, a question of constitutional concern. Even Mr Stumbling, who stated in the Committee that he had an infrastructure which was much better than that of the other Members, was unable to work out the amendment accordingly. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. It is already nice that you have now returned to the question of the short-term application by the Freemans. On the content of this amendment to the Financial Committee you yourself said: With regard to the amendment, my group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is ready to accept such a short-term procedure. – As far as Mr Collegue is concerned. Who put in this amendment? - Novotny, stupid. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You criticize your own course of action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I don't know what it's all about!]] That's really significant. This Service Law alone provides enough reason to create a new, modern and performance-oriented contract service. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This motion for a resolution is intended to give the previous promises of the Federal Government such emphasis. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10361	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10383	Before the next word is given, I declare that the following request has been made: Deputies Mag. In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to clarify the political and legal responsibilities of the BBU scandal. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a short debate be held. According to § 33 para. This debate and the vote will take place after the agenda has been completed. Mrs Hagenhofer has now been reported to speak. – You do not want to consume the word message now, because in two minutes you would call the urgent request. - Good. I am therefore interrupting the sitting until the urgent question is called at 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10428	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisits, friends and friends of the Federal Minister for the Interior on the deportation of Kosovo Albanians (4676/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10464	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 4676/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10623	I give the floor to Mrs Mag. Stoisits as a questioner for the reasons for the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10644	Poštovane gospodin president! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Edlinger, Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The current crisis in Kosovo is probably not going through anyone. There are dramatic violations of human rights – such dramatic human rights violations that NATO is considering, even without the Security Council's decision, possible intervention in Kosovo. It is a crisis that is delivered to us every evening or every day via radio, via television, through newspapers, without effort for us. [[Abg. Young: Yes, Mrs. Colleague, you know that you're coming on television with this urgent thing, so you're watching...!]] 80,000 to 100,000 people – these are the estimates that are also colported via the media – are on the run. They are on the run within Yugoslavia, there especially to Crna Gora/Montenegro, they have arrived on the flight to Albania – these pictures are certainly still in front of you – and they are also on the run to the neighbouring state of Macedonia. Some people from Kosovo, especially those who have links in Austria, but also in the Federal Republic of Germany, fled to Austria. These are – as I know above all about care organisations, refugee organisations and human rights organisations – primarily desperate people who are concerned about their lives, who in Austria have points of contact in the form of relatives who have lived here for a long time as a guest worker or who have already come to Austria as refugees. This is not, for example, a phenomenon that is now emerging – we know it from the crisis in Bosnia – that if you are in distress, if you live under repression, if you are afraid of yourself, but above all also about the family, you are fleeing where you can expect help or where it seems realistic to get help. This is logical for relatives, for friends, for people from the same village. And in Austria thousands of Kosovo Albanians have been living as so-called guest workers or immigrants for many years, even decades. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The situation in Kosovo has developed so dramatically over the last few months – and it is getting worse day by day – that it is really permissible, without having to suspend the accusation of exaggeration, to speak of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. There are politically motivated rapes, and human rights violations are permanent in front of the eyes of the world's public. This is not happening in secret, for example, that is not a country that is unknown – it is very close to Austria, just a bit further than Bosnia, and you will certainly still have a very good memory of what has happened there – it is not happening in secret, but absolutely public, in front of the eyes of the entire world public! And just as public, as ethnic cleansing, political persecution, drastic human rights violations, rapes happen, people from Kosovo are also publicly seeking protection, protection from persecution in Austria and also in other countries of Western Europe. And what is the reaction with us, but not only with us, not only in Austria, also in other EU countries, Western European countries, in order to clarify it now, because of course it is also about Switzerland? What's going on with us? – With us the gates are closed, we lock the door for refugees! But not only that we lock the doors, we also throw them out of Austria, out of our house! We send people from Kosovo, Yugoslav nationals, back to their country of persecution. We send them back where they came from in good faith or in security, to Yugoslavia. [[Abg. Young: We don't send them back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! While until the end of the 1980s refugees in Austria were generally able to expect sympathy, in recent years the public attitude has worsened enormously, especially by boulevard media, but above all also by populist politicians. [[Abg. Young: Why?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is that so? Because of the unbridled immigration policy!]] Until the case of the communist systems, refugees in the public opinion in Austria were regarded as particularly committed people who risk their existence and their lives in order to fight in their home country against a totalitarian regime in order to fight for more human rights, for more democracy and to elicit these fundamental rights. At this time, Austria was also obliged to provide protection to these people if they did not have the opportunity in their home country for a decent life measured according to our criteria, if they – and this is the condition – managed to flee their home countries. Austria was proud to have supported and helped refugees from the Communist regimes. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, it looks very different. Refugees in Austria face quite different attitudes, not only with a different attitude of the population, heated up by populists and boulevards, but also with a different attitude of the authorities. Very flat-rate refugees in Austria are now being subjected to a better life abroad, they wanted to focus on it, and all this at our expense. – opinions to be read daily in small-format leaves. This change of opinion has gone so far that the legislator has also responded, and it has not been difficult to pass a new asylum law here in Parliament. The resistance was great, but the majority and pressure of populism and boulevard presses in the neck were larger. The first amendment of the Asylum Act in 1992 brought with it, in particular, massive restrictions when it came to positive decisions. By 1992, that is, before the new asylum law, there were 45 percent recognition quotas for asylum seekers in Austria – up to 85 percent in some years! That was reality, between 1980 and 1985, with far more applications than today. It is essential to note that too. In the meantime, the recognition rate has been lower than 10 percent, and an ideal second of stay in a so-called safe third country is enough, according to the Austrian authorities and the Austrian policy to make every right to be a refugee in Austria. Just entering a country with a foot sufficient to be no longer recognized as a refugee! In 1997, it was 639 people who still received asylum in Austria in absolute terms, and in the months of January to May 1998, according to statistics of the Ministry of the Interior, 149 people were given a positive message. In five months 149 positive statements of total – and seeing this relation is very essential – 3 633 events, as it is so beautiful in the official language! 149 positive decisions compared to 3 633 achievements according to statistics of the Ministry of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From these 3,633 events of this kind I would like to present you with a lot of information on what you can see in the ORF every day and every evening – these reports are really daily, thank God every day – and what you can read in the newspapers. Austria's asylum authorities react to these images with sentences like – I quote from an asylum notice dated 6. May 1998 concerning a Kosovo Albanian seeking protection from persecution in Austria and receiving the following response –: "This assault by the police - the Serbian police here is meant to be here - has certainly been terrible for you, but the asylum authority must not ignore the fact that it is a very serious but, unfortunately, common practice." The persecution by Serbian police is referred to as a "general practice" – to be read in Austrian asylum records. But it goes even further: A Kosovo Albanian seeking refuge in Austria and seeking asylum here – his brother-in-law and the father-in-law of the brother-in-law were massacred because they belong to a "false", under quotation marks, ethnicity – is written by the Authority: "In so far as you claim to be affected by the civil war-like situation in your home country, this alone is not to be regarded as suitable to make the existence of justified fear of persecution within the meaning of the Geneva Convention credible, because the disadvantages resulting from such circumstances are exposed to all residents living there and can therefore not be classified as specific persecutions directed individually against the asylum seekers." Because – and this is a supplement from me – the "concrete, individual persecution" was the one against the brother-in-law who is dead, and against the father of the brother-in-law, who was also murdered. That is, in my words: Only a dead refugee is a good refugee in Austria. This is the division of asylum modes like this one. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was your diction!]] Authorities in Austria do not doubt human rights violations. There is official confirmation of human rights violations in Kosovo. I just read it to you. But, ladies and gentlemen, it goes a lot further. Human rights violations will not be questioned, nor will they be written: We don't believe you! No, the Austrians go on, they say: We don't care what you say. It is true that there are human rights violations in Kosovo, but we are not interested in this in your case. – This is far more tragic, and this is characterized by a cynicism that is suitable for everything, just not to join a tradition that is rightly proud of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, that actually comes in my eyes fish first. The fish is an attempt to shift responsibility for human rights abuses and for those affected by them to other countries. [[Abg. Marizzi: Did not Austria take up most refugees?]] There is now a very good word for this, and we call it a European burden compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing to do with a European burden compensation. If you have specific concerns about what it is all about, then this is an attempt not only to burden individual countries through civil wars and wars and resulting escape, but to distribute this burden. We support every initiative that the Austrian Minister of the Interior is making in this direction. We support any initiative that actually implements a burden compensation, i.e. a fair distribution of the refugee burden. It is about the implementation of this fair distribution, because today reality is quite another. What does reality look like? States are shifting their responsibilities to each other. They push the load – and the load in this case physical people – to each other, and these people stay on track. For Austria, this means: We are putting this responsibility and this burden on Hungary. This is then justified in the way you hear, read and see, saying: Only because of the civil war in Kosovo do we not let Hungary be called into question or broken as a safe third country! Ladies and gentlemen! Hungary is not a safe third country, and the Minister of the Interior knows it, because he also reads those documents that international organisations produce. [[Abg. Smolle: Mrs Colleague, be careful!]] ==References====External links== May 1998 in a letter to an Austrian authority – that is, not in any paper that an employee creates informally, but in an official letter – quite specifically states what it is all about. The UNHCR writes: "With reference to Article 35 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, our office" – the High Commissioner for Refugees in Austria – "can be determined as a result of the above quotations that there is currently no security of persecution in Hungary, since, in accordance with the principle of ‘in doubt for the person concerned’, asylum seekers who are returned to Hungary for third country security cannot review their asylum requirements in Hungary. In addition, we may point out that, in this case, UNHCR, an Austrian youth office, writes, "that the procedural guarantees corresponding to international standards are not yet fully guaranteed, as a result of the current legal situation, it is not ensured that an asylum seekers may stay in Hungary until the end of the two-way asylum procedure." That's reality. That, ladies and gentlemen, has now been documented. This is not something that is a presumption, but these are concrete cases – the Minister of the Interior knows these specific cases – which show how the process is. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the Austrian authorities responsible for this, it goes down and over it. The right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. At any rate, the Minister of the Interior does not know what his authorities are doing, and vice versa. There, the randomity of the initial letter of a name becomes crucial to whether one is safe from persecution or not. It is a difference whether my name has the initial letter "B" or "S". If he starts with "S", then I am already in Hungary and subsequently in Kosovo, and begins with another letter, then I can stay here. Ladies and gentlemen! It has nothing more to do with the rule of law, it has nothing to do with protection from persecution, it has nothing more to do with what is constantly to be heard in the public statements of the competent politicians, namely that Austria protects people and does not endanger people. The opposite is the case. Ladies and gentlemen! And where are those who are confronted in Austria with such modestys as you have heard them before? Where do they land? They land – and this is hundreds of Kosovo Albanians, but not just Kosovo Albanians, this year happens – in Györ, in the Györ prison camp. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One must not have been in the prison camp in Györ to know what the conditions are there. You only need to look "time in picture 2" or read only "profile", "FAZ", the "standard" or other Austrian newspapers in order to be informed about it. You don't even have to make the effort to look at it there, because it's documented. Nevertheless, the Austrian public, represented by the Austrian authorities, negates the fact that there are unbearable conditions in this collection camp. The only thing to do is to stay in such a prison camp is to doubt – this fact is enough, one must not be pushed on at all – that it is justified to really speak of third-country security, ladies and gentlemen. Because the conditions there are so disastrous that people who are accommodated there – one is not accommodated there as in a pension or hotel, but as in a prison – say: We would rather return to Kosovo than stay here for a few months. That is why our demands are so concrete, and that is why we call on the Minister of the Interior to stop the immediate, absolute deportation of Kosovo Albanians into Kosovo. That's why we demand...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10767	Please put to the conclusion, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10783	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for: Finally, with the eye-winking deportations to Hungary according to the motto: Out of sight, out of mind, what are the refugees doing to us?- Oh, my God! That is why we call for a temporary humanitarian right of residence for Kosovo Albanians as long as this crisis is in place and as long as the people there are in danger.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10813	On the subject of urgent question, the Minister of State will be given the floor. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10834	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I agree to answer the urgent question raised by the Green Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). However, I would like to make a few general remarks, which go beyond the specific context, but which I think are important. The aim is to highlight the Austrian asylum policy in principle. I am convinced that with figures and facts I can prove that Austria has a leading role in the protection of refugees within the international community and within Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Austria may, for example, increase by 56 percent for asylum seekers over the previous year. This is an increase that does not exist in any other EU Member State to that extent. On the contrary: In most other EU countries, the number of asylum seekers even declined or is largely constant. The example of Germany shows that the number of asylum seekers in Austria has clearly declined. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not possible to say that Austria would steal itself from its responsibility, to which I would like to confess myself very clearly here and today. This becomes even more evident when comparing the numbers of asylum seekers with those of our eastern and southern neighbours. Austria had around 7 000 asylum seekers last year, for Hungary the UNHCR has 1 000 applications, for Italy 1 900 applications and for the Czech Republic 2 100. This makes it clear that we bear the main responsibility, not only in comparison to our eastern neighbours, but also to our southern neighbours. If I compare this with other European countries, it can be seen that Austria is leading the asylum figures. Germany has the largest share of 51 percent... [[Abg. Oils: With the applicants, not with those who have asylum!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Applicants – this is not art! It is true that there are a lot of people coming here!]] I will allow myself to address this argument as soon as possible. With the applicants, Germany is clearly at the top of almost 52 percent, followed by the UK and the Netherlands, and then Austria is already coming to France with a share of more than 3 percent. Large and rich countries in Europe have a smaller share: Denmark 2.5 percent, Spain 2 percent, Sweden 2 percent, Greece 0.7%, Ireland 0.52 percent, Finland 0.31 percent, Italy only 0.24 percent, Luxembourg 0.12 percent and Portugal only 0.12 percent. I believe that these figures show very impressively that Austria has a very clear and good position with the asylum seekers. We talked about it yesterday – and I still think it is necessary to repeat it here – that we have recorded 92 000 Bosnian refugees in recent years. We have integrated more than 66 000 of these into Austria, and we have spent more than 5 billion schillings since 1992. And what's even more important: Together with the countries and the various aid organisations, we have established a network of assistance, integration and the possibility of return. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals and Greens! Over the last ten years, Austria has received well over 100 000 asylum seekers and has carried out the necessary procedures. During this period, more than 100 000 asylum seekers recognized more than 10 000 as political refugees. This is a percentage of just over 10 percent, which is well above the average of the percentages of all other European countries. In the statistics I have available, Austria is fourth or fifth place in the recognition rate among the 15 EU Member States. That is, the role of Austria as a country in which people apply for asylum and in which they also have the opportunity to gain recognition is one that goes far beyond what is the case in other countries. I would also like to stress that the number of asylum seekers has increased significantly in the first half of the year. If we still had around 2,600 asylum seekers in Austria during the same period last year, this figure rose to 4,528 in the first half of 1998. This is an increase of 56 percent. No other country within the European Union has seen such an increase. I believe that this increase alone will show that, from the point of view of the asylum seekers, Austria is still a very attractive country of asylum. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Austria was also active in refugee aid during the first hour in connection with the situation in Kosovo. As early as early as June this year, the Council of Ministers has already made available an emergency humanitarian aid of 5 million schillings for the support of displaced people in Macedonia, northern Albania and Kosovo itself. The use of these funds is carried out through non-governmental organisations. We have made 5 million Schilling available, while I know that the EU Commission has also made the same amount available. This also shows that we are in a leading position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that we have a restrictive asylum law. It's the opposite! If we look at the asylum laws adopted in our European neighbours and compare them with the Austrian asylum law adopted a year ago, it is clear that Austria has an asylum law that is much more liberal, much more open than the asylum laws of other European countries. I would just like to add a few examples, which I believe were significant and good improvements that Austria adopted in the new Asly Act 1997. First of all, it has decided that the third-country clause, which you are fighting in this way, does not apply to the past, but to the future. This means that a man or a woman can only be returned to a safe third country if it is ensured in the future that they actually receive an asylum procedure in that safe third country, if, second, they are guaranteed that they will be entitled to stay in that country during this procedure and third, that they are protected from repatriation in the country of origin. Secondly, in the asylum law of last year, we decided that asylum at the airport would be included in UNHCR and that there should be no decision against UNHCR. As a result, for example, the number of applicants for asylum at Schwechat Airport increased in the first half of 1998. Thirdly, In the new asylum law, we have provided the possibility that in addition to political, racial and religious reasons for the persecution, rape is also recognised as a reason for persecution and thus as a reason for escape. Fourth: We have provided the opportunity to seek asylum at the border. This possibility is admittedly only used to a small extent at the moment, but there is an opportunity to do so. It has established its own Integration Advisory Board in the Ministry of the Interior, which has the task of consulting the Minister of the Interior and approving, in severe cases, the so-called humanitarian residence right. We have also created an independent, non-wisdoming authority, namely the Bundesasylsenat. He works in the second instance and is in no connection with the Ministry of the Interior. The activity of this independent federal asylsenate is such that it has also been considered by the opposition parties – by the Greens and the Liberals – at least as neutral, if not as positive. In the new asylum law, we have also met a number of others, in my opinion very important conditions. This includes, for example, a provisional residence permit if a person has entered Austria in accordance with the law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said clearly at the beginning of the debate in Parliament that after a year of practice the new asylum law will be discussed again by all concerned, including the various non-governmental organizations, and that we will make necessary adaptations due to the experience we have in practice in the first year with the new asylum law, and I will make concrete proposals. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court has announced that, on the basis of a complaint from the independent Bundesasylsenate, it has abolished a deadline in the new asylum law, which you have always criticised, and today an initiative proposal will be submitted to Parliament, which will take account of this statement of the Constitutional Court. I believe that we have succeeded in achieving by means of the new asylum law that Austria is a country that will continue to provide help and protection for people who are persecuted for various reasons, whether political, religious or ethnic. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the asylum field in other European countries is looking forward to. For example, just a few days ago, Switzerland decided that foreigners who enter Switzerland without papers or stay illegally in Switzerland can no longer apply for asylum. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right anyway!]] Germany has reduced the social benefits to asylum seekers. Italy has tightened the rules on the detention of asylum seekers. Denmark has adopted a whole package of restrictive measures. This direct comparison, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is impressive that Austria is a country which has designed the asylum law in such a way that it is in the interests of those people who are really persecuted, while other European states have carried out a drastic and distinct strengthening that I do not even think I am doing in any form in Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the burden balance, as Mrs Stoisits has called it, is also very important. But I do not see it as a burden compensation, but as a solidarity compensation. I will try to ensure that a decisive step is taken in a good and right direction during the Austrian Presidency in the European Union with this solidarity balance. Together with the EU Commission, we present these days two drafts for a joint action aimed at establishing solidarity between the status of temporary persons and persons fleeing from mass movements within the European Union. I think that is very important. It is not only a question of financial compensation between the European States but also of compensation for persons, so that it is ensured that not a country alone must bear the burden. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also say very openly to you: I am very pleased to welcome a suggestion from the Liberal Forum, which has been made today in a press release, in which the Liberal Forum believes that this burden-balance should be extended not only within the European Union, but also to EU accession candidates, at least on those of the first round, because I believe that this is useful and correct, and I will endeavour to achieve that our immediate neighbours who want to become members of the European Union will also be included in this solidarity burden compensation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to report that next week I will meet with my internal ministers from Germany, France, Italy and Switzerland. We will try to find a uniform position on essential refugee issues and a common procedure on the issues of dealing with the war events in Kosovo and the consequences for our countries. I have also already written a letter to my new Hungarian internal ministers asking that we should sit down as soon as possible to discuss open questions together, but also to determine how the question of dealing with refugee movements between Hungary and Austria will be solved in the future. In this discussion with my Hungarian colleague, I will also address very openly and very clearly the question of the quality of the reception centres in Hungary. I am right if you say that there is an urgent need for an improvement in the situation in these reception centres, and I think it makes sense for the European Union – and thus Austria too – to contribute to a significant improvement in the situation in these reception centres. In my opinion, this urgent question rightly refers to the need to take the utmost care not only of Kosovo, but also of other areas of conflict, in all aylene law and foreign law decisions on the applications of persons coming from a conflict area. I think it is necessary and very pleased that, as a result of the new legislation, the Bundesasylamt is not only talking about the asylum application but also about the grounds of the referendum and, if necessary, also providing the relevant advice to the foreign authorities. I think it is important – I say this very clearly here – that Austria is particularly sensitive to those who come directly from the crisis area, from the conflict area, from the affected places and cities. I believe that, despite the security of third countries, we must act with extreme sensitivity when it comes to those who prove that they come from the immediate area of conflict. I am therefore also going to have a very intense discussion with the relevant officials responsible for these questions tomorrow to ensure that, despite third-country security, people who come from areas that are proven to be fighting will be very sensitive. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The question also arises – and Mrs Stoisits has had the courage to say that very clearly – that the Greens believe Hungary is an uncertain state that Hungary is a state... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Not the Greens, but the UNHCR!]] It has said that the Greens believe that Hungary is not a safe third country. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Great" foreign politician!]] I do not share this view in order to say this very clearly; I will explain it in detail later on. In principle, however, I believe that a political party, which is much in favour of EU enlargement – and this is the Green Party – should be very careful with flat-rate judgments and should refrain from flat-rate convictions. In any event, if it does not already apply to a political party, this applies in any case to a government and in particular to a government which currently holds the Presidency of the Council in the European Union. As you know...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e10965	Federal Minister! I have a little problem. The answer to the question should not exceed 20 minutes. We've reached 19 minutes now. It may, of course, take longer if many questions have been asked. I would just like to come up with a reply to each question. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is the best PR for the Interior Minister, but no answer to the request!]] The Minister has the right to exceed 20 minutes. I would just like to draw his attention to the fact that he should come slowly to the individual questions. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11007	Mr President. I have also asked whether there is a time limit, and I was told that it is for the Minister to speak as long as he considers it useful. I promise you not to be a permanent speaker. But I believe that it is necessary and important to address the proposals, allegations and opinions of the Greens very intensively. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo!]] I really think it is wrong to ignore these legitimate concerns and concerns of the Greens, and I think that we should really deal with them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11043	Please, I don't ignore anything! I can read the text of the Rules of Procedure to which I am bound: The requested member of the Federal Government or the State Secretary notified on the floor is obliged to submit an opinion on the subject on the grounds of the request. The opinion or reply should not exceed 20 minutes. That means she can exceed 20 minutes. But I felt obliged to point out that I was doing so with all the members of the government. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11067	I'll try to get very short. It is clear to me that Hungary is a safe third country. Hungary fulfils all the conditions for a safe third country. I believe that in some areas, especially with regard to the quality of the reception centres, it is undoubtedly important and necessary for improvements to be made. So much, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, in general part. If the President-in-Office agrees, I will speak again after the next speaker and then answer the individual questions in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11088	Please continue, Minister. Do it in one.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11104	Ladies and gentlemen! On the individual questions. Question 1: The foreign police statistics conducted in accordance with EU standards show only nationality and no ethnic groups. That is why I can only give you information about Yugoslavian nationals, but not specific information on Kosovo Albanians. Under this premise, I can tell you that in the period from 1st century to 1st. Years until 31. In May 1998, the following total figures are announced for abducted or withdrawn Yugoslav citizens: On the land road, 616 persons were moved, 154 people were moved back and forth on the airway. In the first six months of 1998, some 4,600 asylum applications were submitted. Of these 4,600 asylum seekers, around 1 300 come from Yugoslavia, and according to our calculations and estimates, about 80 percent of them are from Kosovo. On question 2: A separate statistics on refusals to Hungary are not available and cannot be prepared in the short term. At the Austrian border crossing points were in the period 1st. Years until 31. On 1 May 1998, a total of 1,238 Yugoslav citizens were rejected for a variety of reasons. At the border crossing points of the Burgenland there were a total of 584. During that period, 302 Yugoslav nationals were resettled to Hungary under the Austrian-Hungarian Shift Agreement. Question 3: The conditions for deportations, reschedulings and rescindings to Hungary are laid down in both the Foreign Act and the bilateral rescheduling agreement with Hungary. In this context, I expressly point out that, under the Mob Agreement with Hungary, transit may not be carried out if the person concerned "is in danger of being subjected to inhuman treatment or the death penalty, or in his life or his freedom for reasons of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or his political views." This clause in Article 4 of the Agreement is a clause which the Austrian legislator has already approved in many thrust agreements. Furthermore, Mrs Stoisits, the statement of the question is not true that the UNHCR has found that Hungary is not a safe third country in principle. According to the UNHCR, as I see it and as I have been informed, in specific cases and in certain constellations, a third country security cannot be assumed from the outset. Questions 4 and 5: I would like to point out once again that it is my firm conviction that, on account of day-to-day opportunities, there is no way to make value judgments on a neighboring country, nor to make value judgments that I do not think are justified in any way. Hungary is a secure third country for the Austrian Federal Government. Hungary is a member of the Council of Europe and has been subject to the full control of the Council of Europe's human rights provisions. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Yugoslavia is also a member of the Council of Europe!]] In Hungary, not only the European Convention on Human Rights but also the right of individual complaint is fully available in the event of alleged violations of this Convention. Hungary has ratified the Geneva Convention on Refugees and has with 1. In March of this year, every reservation to the Convention has also been withdrawn. Hungary therefore fulfils the Refugee Convention, as all other Western European states do. Hungary has clear rules on the protection of refugees, the protection of deportation in its asylum law and in its foreign law. The UNHCR, ladies and gentlemen, has also repeatedly praised the new Hungarian legislation. In my opinion, Hungary has a corresponding asylum system, which also maintains a check-out by courts. In addition, there is a UNHCR representative in Hungary who works very closely with the Hungarian authorities. On question 6: Austria sees no reason to qualify Hungary as an unsafe country, but is very pleased with the indisputably positive development of the Hungarian legal system in recent years. There is therefore no reason to treat Hungary differently from other neighbouring countries in foreign law and, in general, to refrain from deportations and relocations to Hungary. Questions 7 and 8: As you know, the new asylum law also created the independent Bundesasylsenat. The demand for this authority to initiate its internal territory and for complete independence was raised particularly vehemently by, among other things, the Greens and also supported by me as Minister. It is therefore very difficult for me, as Minister of the Interior, to address the accusations raised in these two questions, because I have no competence in this regard. However, I would like to point out that, at a transitional stage, it is undoubtedly difficult to achieve a single Judicatur, even if it is a single judge's decision. But I am convinced that there will be an approximation of the Judicture in this important question in the near future. On the question 9: The conditions of § 57 Foreign Law are material conditions to be assessed in accordance with the circumstances of the individual case. For good reasons, the law does not provide that in some countries it should not be postponed at all. In this respect, the Minister of the Interior would not have any jurisdiction to declare a general ban on deportation to a particular state. It will therefore be necessary to examine, in each individual case, whether, in the event of deportation, the person concerned is at risk of inhuman treatment or punishment, or whether life or freedom due to belonging to a particular group of people or because of political views is at risk. If the test confirms such a risk, it must not be postponed or postponed. This is the result of the law, and this is also clearly dependent on me. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is necessary and important to distinguish very strongly and that decisions are made, not in general, but only in the circumstances of the individual case. And such decisions cannot require any general instruction. Question 10: Last night I received a fax from the Secretary-General of Amnesty International. It contains the presentation of a matter of March this year. I have, of course, led to the review of this matter. However, I have not yet received a final opinion on this review, especially because the information is not very accurate. As soon as I have a final opinion – including an opinion from the Hungarian authorities, because this statement refers essentially to events that took place in Hungary – I will notify you accordingly. On the question 11: I can only take consequences if I have carefully examined the case. The examination of this case has not yet been completed. That's why I can't take any consequences from it. Question 12: The granting of a temporary right of residence for persons leaving their home country due to war disputes is a question which I do not believe should be resolved by a country alone and cannot be solved at the present state of European integration. I think it is necessary and important that the States of the European Union work together. I can assure you that I am working fully on such a common procedure, because I believe that this is not only an operation in the interests of the security of our country and in the interests of the people of our country, but also very, very important for people affected by such military events. I will therefore, together with the Commission, ensure that such a solidarity is achieved within the European Union as soon as possible for those who need temporary protection. I believe that there should be no single entry of Austria, but that it is absolutely necessary to find such a solid balance in a broad accord between the individual states of the European Union. That, ladies and gentlemen, was my answers soon. Mr President, I would have liked to say more about this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11146	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his answer. The speaking times of the speakers from the High House amount to 10 minutes per person and a maximum of 25 minutes per club. Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11174	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On one point, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to very much support your remarks, namely on the point that you have very great scepticism and restraint in the word 'last balance' in relation to people as it has been established by the Boulevard press. I share this scepticism. People are not burdens, they should not be, and I find your expression "solidarity balance" much more convenient. I also note that the word'solidarity' is much better in this context and is much more correct than in the context of arms brotherhood. But, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your comments, which I have heard very carefully, for your rethinking. If the situation had been 50, 60 years ago, when the worst events of history were under way here in these countries, it would have dominated such an attitude at that time that one could not examine every individual case and would thus be overwhelmed – I do not know what the fate of a Bruno Kreisky, a Alma Mahler, a Sophie Freud would have been. I do not know what is in the history books of Austria today if, at the time, in Sweden and in other countries, such an attitude had existed, as it seems to have become hallowed. Mr Federal Minister, in your own words: They say they capture the refugees, the asylum seekers, not according to their ethnicity, but after their passport, and they could only call us the numbers of those who have been postponed or rejected under the quotation "Serbins and Serbs". But I ask you: How do you then intend to satisfy your just stated claim to make a decision on certain cases? I do not know why the Caritas that you certainly do not criticise without reason, I do not know why the UNHCR, Amnesty International or also the citizens' list of the Greens in Salzburg are more able to make such statements with your entire government apparatus. I'd like to give you these lists that we have from Salzburg and Vienna. ==References====External links== On June 36 Kosovo Albanians – no world-moving number, nothing that could endanger prosperity, internal security or anything – 36 people who are in the most bitter distress and despair, 36 Kosovo Albanians in Salzburg in charge. I'll give you the names. Maybe you can check it with your government apparatus. I think you'd be obliged to do so under the law. A further 16 people have been mentioned, where this review has not yet been carried out, but because of its name it is likely that they are Kosovo Albanians. I do not know why you cannot find out, Minister of State, if it is the NGOs, if it is the Caritas or Amnesty. I think you should do this – with those people who sit in Vienna and in other penitentiary prisons. [[The speaker is Federal Minister Mag. Lock a list.]] Federal Minister! None of the Greens, let alone Hungary, has generally attacked, criticized or despised any country. On the contrary, Minister of State: We strongly advocate that we finally give more help to the reform states, which are still in the process of freeing themselves from a bitter political and economic fate. It is not a question of condemning a country – that is a demagogic distortion of the statements made by my colleague, Mr Stoisits – but, as you have said, what could happen to a particular person in Hungary is true. Mr Federal Minister, I do not know why it takes so long to review a very clear report. Your authorities are faster when it comes to bringing people out of the country. I don't know what's so hard about checking a report that a Kosovo Albanian who already had his feet on Austrian soil here on the border, there's no asylum at the border, and who's been pushed back to Hungary, has been handed over from there in the handcuffs of the Serbian police, and then, in Serbia, first with fists, then with leather hoses filled with sand, has been beaten until it was unconscious, then with water awakened and insulted and so on. You once said: Show us a single case where you can document it, and we will not move people to Hungary anymore! – Now this case is here. I ask you: Will any people be moved to Hungary tomorrow, or is this for at least so long, until this case has been reviewed? How do you check the other cases? How do you help Hungary, which with its burdens like Slovenia, like Croatia, as many other countries are certainly more difficult to deal with than Austria? How do you help these states today, tomorrow, here? Federal Minister! It must be easy for a head of a department who has a large government apparatus and has much more possibilities than amnesty international or the Caritas to check this incident. Above all: It can be about hours that decide on human life. And I say, There is no doubt that life is on the safe side. This is actually the only demand that can be made here and today from a human point of view, even from a Christian point of view. Federal Minister! I'm really wondering: What reason should the Caritas have to blackmail you to your place of business or individual officials? . I assume that they are working hard to help in the countries of origin of refugees and here in Austria. I see no reason why the Caritas should make any false claims. The Caritas has not said that Hungary is generally an unsafe third country. You know exactly what she said, namely: The provisions of the Hungarian Asylum Act suggest that the Hungarian authorities could accept the third-country security of an asylum seekers in Austria even if Austria, for its part, had relied on the third-country security of the asylum seekers in Hungary. It's just a human carousel: The Austrians say that the asylum seekers had already been safe in Hungary, and the Hungarians then say he was already in Austria, where he could have been sure. You know: The formulation "may have been safe" is not enough for a human life. People's lives need to be secured! Federal Minister! Sage Please at least the circle of those gathered here and also the media: How many people could it be? Can't you, like the Caritas and amnesty international, determine on the basis of the name and by questioning who is a Kosovo Albanian, a Kosovo Albanian, of the sheer prisoners? Can you not, as far as these people are concerned – I suppose, there will not be 300 people – during this war, so for those few people who do not endanger a rich country like Austria in any way, let humanity take control of any authority order? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Another point: You said the law was a good one, be better than many others. You also said that the Constitutional Court had today removed an important provision. Two days of asylum seekers had time to appeal! Two days, where every citizen who can have German has 14 days to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11249	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11264	Federal Minister! The Greens and Liberals have always said: It's unconstitutional! I believe that this statement should cause you to make sure today that no one from Kosovo will "disappear" from Austria until the end of this war.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11295	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Schlögl. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11316	Mrs Petrovic! I would like to make a brief comment on your remarks. First of all, I would like to thank the fact that we have found a common method of avoiding the word 'last balance' here, because I see it as much as you do. I mean, if you're talking about people looking for protection and need help, you can never talk about a burden. That is why I believe that the term "solidar compensation" or "solidarity compensation" is a very important one. The second thing I would like to say clearly – perhaps you have unwittingly misunderstood this – is this: I have never claimed that we do not know about the number of ethnic groups who fled to Austria. No official statistics are compiled by ethnic groups. As is usual in the European Union, we are producing statistics to those countries from which people flee to Austria. That is why I am unable to give you a precise answer to how many people have actually fled from Yugoslavia to Austria from Kosovo. [[Abg. Wabl: Approximate!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But you know very well that you will send them back! That's absurd!]] – I’ve already said it about it, and I’m going to repeat it again now. This is, among other things, so difficult because some of these refugees – as far as Kosovo is concerned, admittedly not so much – are undocumented. There are certain areas from which people come, in principle, without documents, and there are other parts of the world, from where refugees come mostly with documents. This year we have about 1 300 refugees from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, of which about 1 000, almost 80 percent, are from Kosovo. But this is an approximate and not an accurate statistical number. The next question you asked is why I cannot answer this letter by amnesty internationally more quickly. – Ladies and gentlemen! I found a fax in my office yesterday evening, after the end of the debate in the National Council on Citizenship Law. If one is to examine a case seriously, one must not only deal with the accusations against the Austrian authorities, but also ask the Hungarian authorities whether the incident that happened last March really took place. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Will you examine the other cases?]] With all the criticism that you have done to me so far and which was perhaps also justified: I have always tried in my office to deal with these when allegations have come. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] If you give me specific cases, I'd like to check each case. I will also examine the case very carefully, and I will provide the results amnesty internationally, but also to you. Finally, in my opinion, this is also very important, I would like to stress once again that we are not moving a refugee from Kosovo unchecked to Hungary, but that we are carrying out a case-by-case examination – I have pointed out very clearly today. We look at each individual fate very carefully and also pay very close attention to where these people come from. It makes a difference whether they come from an area in which there are destroyed villages and destroyed cities or whether they come from an area where there is no military action.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11386	Thank you, Minister of State. Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11411	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We take discussions and criticisms concerning the practice of asylum and the Austrian asylum laws very seriously. The Federal Minister has now proved this by dealing very thoroughly with the accusations made here. I know - we all know - that, if there are concrete accusations, the Minister of State will also have them examined, and that, when it comes to a misbehavior or the law is interpreted inhumanely, he does something about it. I would therefore like to say that it is said that responsibility will be "rejected". Austria really does not press ahead with its responsibility! If you compare our asylum law with that of other countries, you can clearly see that. While other countries are actually worsening the situation for asylum seekers, this has not happened in our country and will not happen either. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Didn't you get the novels last year?]] The new asylum law, which was adopted last year, has also been praised by UNHCR as a clear improvement. Of course, there have been criticisms that have come not only from you but also from us. If there is now the possibility of starting from the two-day term of appeal, I think this is very important, because we too are concerned about whether this period is enough. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: What does it mean: the possibility? It's unconstitutional! That is a shame to Parliament!]] This has been justified by the push agreement. If it is not only because of the findings, but also because we want to do so, that is a change and an extension of the time limit for appeal, it is very welcome. I would also like to deal with the accusation to Hungary. When we passed the Foreign Laws in 1997, the accusation was made to the Hungarian State that it was not a safe third country, because Hungary signed the Geneva Convention but ratified it with reservation. At the time, however, this reservation only referred to non-European asylum seekers, which does not apply in the case of Kosovo. Hungary has now withdrawn this reservation. I can also remind myself that, in a speech, I asked the Federal Minister to continue the talks with his Hungarian counterpart. The Federal Minister has made great efforts to ensure that the practice is harmonised with Hungary and that this reservation is eliminated. - That's the case now. Hungary is also certified that the new laws on foreigners are good laws. I therefore believe that Hungary is actually applying a human rights interpretation of the Geneva Convention and the Convention on Human Rights. Mr Schlögl has announced that he will nevertheless have a very detailed examination of whether Kosovo Albanians will be deported to Hungary. This is also to be seen as very positive. I think that, for various reasons, it is necessary not to leave Hungary alone on this issue. The word "last balance" has been used more often than not. The Federal Minister has replaced this with the term "solidarity compensation". This is a sign that has a certain meaning, because the language says a lot about the way a problem is seen. Hungary certainly needs support. It is certainly not a question of countries that are at the border of Member States of the European Union having the major economic problems that must overcome their own past, having to bear most of the burdens associated with refugees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to say in this context that although Hungary is undoubtedly burdened with great loads on refugees, Austria has played an exemplary role in the question of Bosnian refugees. I am not talking about the 5 billion schilling, which should not be reduced to the financial level. However, the fact that 92,000 refugees were admitted that 66 000 of them were integrated into us and that we only recently found a human solution for the rest, as I believe, shows that Austria is pursuing a human policy towards refugees. Ladies and gentlemen! There are certainly possibilities to solve the question of Kosovo Albanians in our country, both human and legal. There are undoubtedly refugees who have family relations with Austria and therefore try to get here. I am convinced that there is the possibility of finding a solution in this regard which is human and conforms to the laws. In order to solve this problem, of course, it is also necessary, indeed of vital importance, that the international community succeeds in finding a solution to the Kosovo problem as a whole. This is a very difficult task if one considers the escalation and sees how the differences and tensions are increasing among the Albanians in Kosovo. It will undoubtedly be necessary for the European Union to speak with a tongue and exert the necessary pressure on the parties to sit down at a table and try to solve the problems together. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of Kosovo Albanians is a very sensitive one. She's a question we can't deal with early enough. I am convinced that the Ministry of the Interior is being careful and responsible. There should be no deportations to Yugoslavia, as the Federal Minister has said. A very careful attitude in repatriation to other countries, even if they are safe third countries, is indicated. It is also important to discuss and clarify the question of a solidarity balance between the various European countries, not only within the European Union but also in Europe as a whole. In individual cases, an examination is carried out by the independent Bundesasylsenat and by the highest courts. I think that this is a right way and that the outlined procedure of the Ministry of the Interior points in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11472	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. König. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11494	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that the performance of Austria in connection with the tragedy in Bosnia has been recognised by all states as exemplary. We therefore have no reason at all to be ashamed of ourselves. On the contrary: Austria is one of the countries that have done most of the things in this respect. No other country in the EU has received so many refugees from Bosnia – the Minister has mentioned the number: a total of 92 000 – such as Austria, with the exception of Germany. But Austria has received a lot more refugees in relation to the size of Germany. I believe that this is an achievement that must also be honoured. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria and this coalition government have always been familiar with asylum law. There is no doubt about this at all, and it has been demonstrated. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister of the Interior has always raised these on these issues – of course there are individual cases – which require a great deal of sensitivity. I believe that this is also good for Austria. But one thing has to be said very openly: We cannot tolerate the extension and abuse of the right of asylum. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What are we talking about now? Are we now talking about Kosovo refugees?]] Otherwise, like Mrs Stoisits, we will have to be more and more sorry that the people do not understand this. [[Abg. Wabl: You're making the mood again!]] They confuse cause and effect. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Do Kosovo Albanians abuse?]] – Let me say, I only have 10 minutes of speech! I didn't interrupt you either. Listen, then you'll get an answer! People will be driven to the attitude you, Mrs Stoisits, have regretted if you do not distinguish between asylum seekers, refugees and economic refugees and therefore provoke rejection in the population. They're provoking them, not the government! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Do Kosovo Albanians abuse?]] Let me say this because you have accused the Federal Minister of Demagogy here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's right!]] I do not propose demagogy to you, but I think that you quote the article from the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" in the supplement to your request very selectively. It says: "The target countries are always the same: Germany, Austria. They think that there is paradise." - You have to see that too. And I can't do that! [[Abg. Wabl: Where else should they go?]] I would like to say here that the EU is currently making massive efforts in Kosovo to stop the fights. This is the prerequisite for a political solution. As you have quoted the United Nations refugee organization, I would like to quote the High Commissioner for this organization. It has been published in a report of 26. In June, the Yugoslav government – that is the one in Belgrade – agreed to cooperate with its organization in the return of refugees. Whether this is actually realized – with all that we have already experienced with Miloševic – I do not want to judge it that way. The High Commissioner writes this anyway. One thing is certain: Only by international pressure will it be possible to achieve the restoration of peace there and silence the weapons. This is the only opportunity for a political solution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why the President of the European Union, our Foreign Minister and Vice-President Wolfgang Schüssel, has assisted the Austrian ambassador of the mission, who is now trying to carry on this process at the political level in Priština, after Yugoslavia has been allowed to use international observers. I now have to ask you a question, Mrs Petrovic, and you and the other representatives of the Green Group, to whom I would very much like to hear an answer. In this House, in connection with the foreign policy report, we have adopted a motion for a resolution by Helmut Moser, Liberale, Peter Schieder, Social Democrats, and Walter Schwimmer, ÖVP, inter alia: The preparations for peacekeeping and humanitarian measures, as well as the willingness to take peace-making measures of the European or international community in Kosovo, will be completed. You have failed to do this! Do you seriously believe that people in Kosovo, whose only hope is that the international community will this time put pressure on Miloševic to send back his special police force, should this hope be destroyed by failing to act as a political group? – But here, great is pressed on the tear gland and claims that Austria is allegedly not doing enough! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Right time? - Ha!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Learn History! Kosovo 1989!]] If you say, You have to help people, then I'm with you. We'll do that. You're talking about it, and we're doing it! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Austria has already made 3 million Schilling available to the International Red Cross in Kosovo for refugees, 6 million to the International Red Cross for the refugees in Montenegro and 6 million Schilling to the Austrian Red Cross for the refugees in Albania; so far a total of 15 million Schilling. That's active help! I think that's how Austria can be seen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] To your claim that Hungary is not a safe third country: It has already been said that Hungary is one of the six states with which we want to conduct intense negotiations on the integration into the European Union. Hungary is a recognised member of the Council of Europe. It has ratified and adhered to all the conventions. This must be said: It's up to it, too! It is therefore extremely unfair to explain in such a non-differentiated, general way: Hungary is not a safe country. Our neighbors didn't deserve it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What do you write in your request for reasons that Hungary is not a safe country? In Question No 5, it says: "Can people under the inhuman and degrading conditions, as in Györ, be spoken of as a safe third country?" [[Abg. Wabl: Do you know the UNHCR's letter?]] The "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung) describes in its report of 30. May 1998 the conditions there, that's right. But you also quoted that manipulatively. You did not quote as the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" actually writes, but you have made omissions. The "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" reports that the camp is currently overpowered by the strong inflow. But if you say that people can't live there because the toilets are broken and the Hungarian installers refuse to judge them, then that's manipulatively quoted. For the report of the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" says that the installers refuse to judge the toilets because they are not cleaned. And they are not cleaned because the inmates refuse to clean them up. They want them cleaned by others, according to the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" literally. – Look, that's something you shouldn't do: You shouldn't be accusing a country with half-truths! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say one thing: Austria will continue and the government parties will continue to recognise the right to asylum, including human treatment for the refugees of war, but above all for help on the ground. We will work to ensure that this time we do not put pressure on us too late to prevent mass flight movements and that there are atrocities as in Bosnia. One thing I have to add to it: It must be clear – and we cannot allow this to happen – that no one will be able to choose where he is going as an asylumist. This will not be possible, and that They cannot reach them either by stating that Hungary is not a safe third country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11713	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11734	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What is happening now – a refugee movement similar to that we have already had, however, back then from Bosnia – has been a long time ago. Minister! I remember asking you a few weeks ago, perhaps two months ago, at a meeting of the Committee on the Interior, what you are planning in case a wave of refugees comes upon us as it did from Bosnia. It was, as has been said, easy to predict what will happen if you have just read the newspapers. Back then, you assured me: There will be no such second wave, because you will try to achieve a European burden balance. We now have the EU summit in Austria, but we still have no burden compensation, Mr. Interior Minister! Now the refugees are here, and we are virtually helpless to this situation. We have seen that the number of refugees has already increased compared to the previous year. In the first few months of 1998 it was already 4 600 refugees. Minister! In view of the generous treatment we have granted to 90,000 Bosnians, I cannot imagine that there will be an international burden balance. For everyone in Europe will think that the Austrians need new refugees formally, otherwise they would not give 90 000 people who actually came as refugees a right of establishment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Hunter: Why 90,000?]] The Minister says it's 90 000. That number's not mine. [[Abg. Hunter: But you're talking about 90,000!]] I can explain it to you – the Minister has already explained it exactly, and if you were in the Committee on the Interior, you would know it: 10,000 have moved on, 10,000 have migrated home, the rest are left here: 90,000. The Minister has even spoken of 90 000 to 100,000. [[Abg. Scheibner: She can't believe it!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not artificial if I calculate what the Minister has said on the basis of figures. You have become victims of your own foreign policy, and now get You're presenting the invoice for this! In my opinion, the Minister will not succeed at all with the burden compensation. We alone will continue to have to bear the entire burden of refugee policy. I can already imagine what is going to happen to us from Kosovo. Mrs Stoisits! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the single-chicksales presented are tragic. But it must also be recognized that it is not possible to include all people from a war zone who have a tragic fate in Austria. There is the Geneva Convention – for this purpose it has been created – in order to give countries more or less guidelines for it or to require it, only in cases where there is individual persecution to recognise the refugee status, but not in the face of war. I think that we must finally start with this - as Mr King has already said - to distinguish between refugees and immigrants. As long as you don't, no serious discussion can take place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: What are those who come from Kosovo?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Examples of the case law of the independent asylum Senate have also been cited here... [[Abg. Wabl: What are those from Kosovo? Immigrants?]] Would you please let me talk? – Of course they are, because they are not refugees under the Geneva Convention. You know that very well, Mr. Wabl. I would now like to speak again to the Bundesasylsenat. The fact that this one does not work is nothing new, Mr Minister. You know that very well. That is why it comes to as curious a case law as that of the family name as it depends on whether one is being postponed or not. I think it is perfectly clear that this must not happen, Mr Minister. In my opinion, we must provide the independent Federal Asylsenate with first information, which is actually up-to-date and correct, so that it does not depend on information from the Caritas, from amnesty international or from other organizations that are primarily providing assistance but are not intended to perform external policy agendas. I also think that if it fails to bring the Bundesasylsenat to a more or less uniform case law, it will be necessary to amend the law. Then you have to give the Bundesasylsenat other directives and refrain from their independence. – I think you should confess to that. It is not the first time that the Bundesasylsenat counters the efforts to regulate asylum and foreign law. In a second case, the Bundesasylsenat has also found that a neighbouring country of Austria is not a safe third country, namely Slovakia. The Bundesasylsenat therefore found that, in addition to Hungary, Slovakia is not a safe third country. I think there's something you need to do. If this is not possible by means of information, Mr Minister – because it is very difficult to influence an independent body – I ask you, as I have said, to put forward initiatives to change the law. It's yours. If we make such a proposal, if we make such an initiative, then I know what happens to it: Then, unfortunately, he ends up in the drawer. That's why the volume of action lies with you. Please do something! For I think we simply cannot accept the fact that there is a case law that legitimately brings Austria into discredit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say one more thing to you, Mr Minister, and to you from SPÖ and ÖVP: You see that all your efforts – you praise yourself: we have the most liberal asylum law, we have the highest recognition rate, we are the most open country – do not benefit. The inclusion of 90,000 Bosnians does not benefit, the most liberal asylum law does not benefit from getting rid of the criticism of the Greens. That is why I would like to ask you: Don't look at the really smallest and most insignificant parliamentary party! You stand here crying practically to Mrs Stoisits and Mrs Petrovic, you justify yourself – but you will never be able to do so, Minister! Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This whole love ministry doesn't make sense. As I said, Only when you say: If all of you come to us in any economic need!, Mrs. Stoisits may be – even then perhaps! – be satisfied. I think it is necessary to relativize what comes from there. And the Liberal Forum is similar. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, we reject it - I am saying that now, even before it comes to the point - that Kosovo Albanians are granted the same status as the Bosnia-Herzegovina, namely that they are recognized as de facto refugees. I would also like to explain the reason for this: Most people from Bosnia and most likely also from Kosovo come to us not as refugees – otherwise they would be recognized after the refugee convention – but as immigrants. But we just can't pick up so many immigrants. In addition, the situation has changed completely. Mrs Stoisits and Mrs Petrovic cried after that time when we took up refugees from Communism. At that time it was different: These people have returned home. But now the refugees no longer return home, neither the de facto refugees nor the others, even if the situation has calmed down in their homeland. This is not acceptable to the population either. I think we must also take into account what the Austrian people actually think about the whole. [[Abg. Jäger: It's more humane than you are! She's got a lot of commitment!]] It is not only about the nature of the Kosovo Albanians, the Bosnians, the Africans, the Iraqis and so on, but also about the nature of the Austrians in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By not ensuring that refugees return home after the danger, you have made it possible and have also made it possible for new refugees to have no more capacity. We always warned about that. But now Mrs Stoisits regrets that it has become different. It is therefore different today because your foreign policy has simply been wrong in recent years! It was wrong that you did not distinguish between immigrants and refugees and that you did not say that refugees had to return home. I think that is why it is urgently necessary to change the foreign policy. We have a different situation now, too, than we ourselves are quite misguided. Five billion schillings are not small. Mrs Petrovic said we should not talk about the money. But I think it is nevertheless necessary to talk about 5 billion schillings. Because that cost the whole thing. We have a new unemployment record in Vienna. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'll stop! – Most of the Bosnians, but also the immigrant, of course, is stuck in Vienna. We have to deal with the question: How can we get out of this whole thing so that the foreigners living in Austria, but also the Austrians themselves, have no disadvantage due to new ones? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We're going to take care of this! "Foreigners"!]] Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Hungary should be financially supported so that conditions, as they are clearly given in refugee camps, are improved. But I do not think that we should accept a wave of refugees like those of the Bosnians here in Austria. [[President Dr. Fischer once again gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11903	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e11925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree, in part, with Mrs Partik-Pablé's conclusion. But only partially: I also believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no wave of refugees from Kosovo. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I do not give any meaning to this agreement at all!]] If you could grasp it in this sense, I could... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not one or the other!]] But if you so kindly reject it, you probably didn't mean it that way. However, I think it must be the main objective of resolving the problem in its originality. I fear that this will not be possible in the short term. Therefore, to the urgent question or to the reply by the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Jäger is in front of the Minister Bank and talks with Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl.]] I ask Mrs Jäger not to take the attention of the Federal Minister so much. Look at this. The question of whether... [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: He's a Caesaric guy and can listen to both!]] Yeah, that's partly right. He is the best man of the FPÖ in the government and is insulted by it at the same time. That's the interesting thing. The "Kronen Zeitung" says... [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: I'm rejecting that!]] Well, it wasn't kind words from the colleague right now. Perhaps "disgusted" is too much said, but kind words to the Federal Minister were not. . I just mean, that's this Caesaric parallel that Mr Fuhrmann spoke about. We have a random meeting of two events: on the one hand, a urgent request and, on the other, a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice on the Asylum Law. You will understand that I consider this chance meeting to be important in this case, because it has an incredibly high symbolic content on the subject. I recall the discussions in the committee where both the Liberal Group and the Greens have made it clear with intensity that this is unconstitutional. And I also remember the statement of a chief official – I imagine it was a section leader – who said: Yeah, that's a constitutional grate migration. I was already of the opinion that it is not a gratification, but clearly unconstitutional. That the Constitutional Court has grasped its knowledge so quickly, I think it is remarkable in that case. And I mean, Consider what it means to be top officials only because politics wants extremely short deadlines to provide you with an expertise that – in the jargon of the people themselves – is of limited value, in fact, even unconstitutional. Consider whether you should rely on the legal and professional judgment of such people in the future! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Federal Minister! You say – and I believe you have proved it repeatedly – that when cases are shown, you will have them checked. Who's guarding the guards in your house? – This key question does not seem to me to be quite satisfactory – and it is against the background of your 48-hour frist for asylum vocations at the border and against the background of the fact that in your house it seems to have been considered right in spite of strict arguments of opposition. One can afford a legal error – but not too often, please, and not overly sustainable, and not at the expense of refugees who are really hard to deal with due to such deadlines, because, if they are unable to observe the deadlines, they suffer an uncertain fate. As a result, even in the sense of a risk assessment, legal goods balance is all better than administrative stringency and administrative efficiency in the form of 48-hour milling, according to the motto: At that time, one will not make the appeal, and then we have done the act, can close it or do not have to put it – in the actual sense of the word – at all. Such 48-hour deadlines exist in the countries of Switzerland, Germany, Italy and Denmark, which give you as a dissuasive example, because everything is much more stringent. This is so clearly not in accordance with the rule of law that even very restrictive countries have no such 48-hour milling. I therefore believe that this should be an incentive to reverse this question. However, the fact that it was the independent Bundesasylsenat, who initiated this procedure, is in a way speaking for you, Mr Federal Minister, I admit, because he is still not so long. That's something that can be seen positively. But if you say that the asylum law was also praised at the time, then I must say: I don't like you saying that. Only because one or other thing, which is actually a little better in the new asylum law, has been recognized, for example, by our group, has never said that we praised the new asylum law at that time, but we have one-way – whether amnesty international, whether the Caritas, whether the chairman of the Bishops' Conference or the UNHCR – express the opinion: In total, this is a deterioration, even if there is an improvement there or there. – It was important to me to have said that, otherwise the impression might arise that it was really a better asylum law that was adopted at the time. Let me now turn to the root of the question: Hungary – safe third country? come and make the following statement, which is also applicable to the Group – the Federal Minister has already referred to it anyway –: We have tried to discuss the problem within the Group and have found: Whether this is the case or not, one will have to clarify the individual case test. But if you, Minister of State, have said: If you call me a single case, and we will no longer move to Hungary, then you have actually passed the case examination because you seem to believe that if there is a case, you will not move back at all – which I would welcome from a humanitarian point of view. But that meant that you give up the case-by-case examination, because if you want to change the whole system because of a case that has failed in Hungary, that is, I think, more on the effect than on the rule of law. – This is only for thoughtful thinking in this case. We've been thinking about it. What must be the common objective? – The common objective should be that, if it is not already a safe third country, Hungary will become a safe third country as soon as possible. The aim should be to develop Hungary in such a way that it becomes a state which is unquestionably in line with all the demands. And the same claim applies to all the countries of reform. It must apply to all EU applicants that, if they are not already a safe third country, they will be as soon as possible. The problem of refugees from Kosovo will develop regardless of whether or not we consider Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic or any other country to be a safe third country. But one thing must not happen, namely that, if they have finally reformed themselves in such a way that they are undoubtedly, in the opinion of Mr Stoisits, safe third countries, which must be a common objective, say: But in the refugee question, we leave you alone, because there we have the new Schengen border, and you have unfortunately had bad luck there! It is therefore imperative that we make a pan-European solidarity school finale, including the countries that we usually call reform states or candidate countries, whether we consider them to be safe third countries or not. We will only be able to solve the problem if we try to descale the conflict as far as possible at the root of Kosovo itself, so that the reasons for the escape – that would be the most wonderful if it were to succeed quickly – and should not be quite as successful and should therefore come to refugees, then European solidarity will be treated and taken up as refugees by all European states, which are not in Kosovo's illustrious situation. If you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, really take this proposal, which we have already made public, seriously within the framework of the Austrian Presidency in the EU, you would send a double signal: (a) that we do not simply stop at the EU's external borders with humanity and (b) that we take the candidate countries seriously in every respect and say, regardless of the stage of the accession negotiations: In this question there is no: Only when you have joined!, but on this question must there be an instant. And that would be satisfactory anyway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12016	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12038	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No question, it is very understandable that you are breaking your asylum law here, that you are here mentioning the advantages, the outstanding one, which in international comparison is quite bribery of the Austrian asylum law. This is your right, and you may be able to rise as a single-eyed person among the blind in Europe. On the other hand, it is all the more incomprehensible and even more worrying to me that you have ignored the reservations, the criticism which has already been voiced during the negotiations and is now confirmed by the Constitutional Court. You are also somewhat emblazoned by this knowledge of the Constitutional Court in your presentation of the Asylum Law. – This discrepancy for the first. Secondly, It is quite understandable, Mr Minister, that you are pleading for a solidarity community in Europe, that you take action to ensure that there is a common burden on human rights and also on the issue of asylum rights and on aid for refugees, for persecuted, for asylum seekers. All of this is understandable, and it is necessary. I am glad that you are committed to this, and I would be pleased if this, as my previous speaker said, would become a primary concern of the Austrian EU Presidency: European solidarity, European humanity, lived on examples, on individual examples. No question, that is understandable, and Austria must play a pioneering role there. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible to me that at the same time one somehow takes part in the game: It could also be handled in accordance with the Floriani principle. We were outstanding, we were excellent in the course of the Bosnia-Hercegovina conflict. We have acted very offensively, we have helped many people. We have, I believe, given 90 000 Bosnia-Herzegovina homes, food, and the opportunity to build up new existences. But now it's enough. Now, according to the Floriani principle, once the EU states are to strive, it is now time for England, Germany, France and so on to bring millions into the EU, as we have already provided intermediate services. I believe that it is still necessary, as a doorman, not only to encourage European solidarity in the East, but also to live up to it itself. We still have to – this is our Central European fate – the doorstep role that pilot project role plays, we have to take up the pioneering role offensively. Minister! I think it is very commendable that you have assured to carry out individual case checks. No question, that is necessary. But what your authorities have already decided in individual cases is highly condemnable. I have only selected three examples: "Internsministerium pushed three-year-old child off on Monday together with pregnant mother and injured father." And in the article: "The Albanian refugee family fled the Serbian unrest province in April. The man had broken the thigh on the escape. However, the family was able to pass through Hungary to Austria, where she found accommodation with relatives." – Please, they were provided with relatives, they have been cared for by relatives. They did not fall directly to the burden of Austria, and still they were postponed. This is clearly documented inhumanity that your authorities practice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's condemnable. Check the individual cases! This is urgently necessary. Unfortunately, some of your employees do not adhere to what is in itself undisputed as a solidarity principle. [[New condolences with the greens.]] A second example – I should like to mention this in particular with regard to my previous speakers on the part of the ÖVP – is: The Vienna Caritas Director Michael Landau considers the return of Kosovo refugees to Hungary to be an "unbelievable cleanery" – I quote from the "standard" here. It calls for an immediate stop to deportations and a provisional right of residence for refugees from Kosovo Albanians in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: So what?]] - Please, that's what the Caritas Director calls for. And you call yourself a Christian social party! [[Abg. DDr. King: An undifferentiated attitude!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Landau has been permanently lost!]] Unfortunately, they do not practice this ideal. They leave that to the Caritas. You wash your hands in innocence, so to speak, by pointing out: We were great with the Bosnians! And: We need to provide help on the spot. This is what Mr King has formulated. What does "help on the ground" mean in the case of Kosovo Albanians? Do you have help in prisons where torture is being carried out? Skill You're doing "help on the spot"? Do you get help when people are beaten when people get kicked when people are beaten? Where are your members doing "help on the spot"? [[Abg. DDr. King: I ask you why you don't want this!]] It's not possible there. It is only — and this has rightly been mentioned — that my colleague Kier, too, has, in the run-up to the conflict settlement, can be seen that these conflicts are de-escaling. But in the case of the Kosovo Albanians to do "help on the ground" is a thing of the impossibility. Therefore, I must say that Mr King's remarks are really more than pharysic. I would like to refer to a third example and quote here Mr Caritas Director Küberl from the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. He also appealed again on Friday in a letter to you, Mr. Minister – that was not a fax from yesterday, that was a letter from Friday – that we should necessarily give temporary protection to the Kosovo displaced people in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: "Leader"!]] I should like to point out that refugees, such as those who, for example, came to us from Hungary in 1956, stayed here temporarily and then moved elsewhere. Several refugees from the Balkans also stayed in Austria temporarily and then moved elsewhere. [[Abg. Kiss: You're talking about things you don't understand!]] There are also some left here, no doubt. But those who stayed here, for example, also founded businesses, founded existences and are now taxpayers here. But there are also different people who are looking for protection only temporarily here and then find another location. To this end, I would like to say the following: Mr King mentioned the abuse, he pointed out that there was a misuse of Austrian asylum opportunities. I say, on the other hand, that there is also, above all, an abuse by the Austrian authorities which do not take the right to move to the so-called safe third country of Hungary. Please, this is a abuse for me and not for persecuted people here to seek asylum. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister of the Interior! They are considered ministers of the interior with a human face. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's indisputable! The human face cannot be challenged!]] They also show very human traits in the debate over and over again. That's very grateful. Please finally give your authorities a human manuscript! That would be very important to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12196	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12220	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser has very often quoted the Caritas, especially the President of the Caritas Vienna, Landau, and has said that one may pursue and support his concerns. Mrs Moser! You can also support the Caritas Vienna in a different way, and I hope you do so with the same vehemence. Indeed, one has bitterly complained in a conversation, Mr. Interior Minister, that is also interesting for you, that the Caritas Vienna in their refugee homes has little support from the police when it comes to removing Nigerian drug dealers from these Caritas homes who are threatening the caretakers and those responsible for the Caritas. If you call after the police, it's called that you can't do anything. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What does this have to do with Kosovo Albanians?]] Mrs Moser! We would find ourselves supporting Caritas when it comes to removing Nigerian drug dealers from their homes, so that there are no negative aspects of refugee problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister of the Interior! I would expect that there will be appropriate support. In her speech, Mrs Stoisits once again complained of a lack of willingness to take up refugees in the Austrian population. Mrs Stoisits! That really bothers me. In every debate on refugees and asylum policy, this is so subversive: These "evil" Austrians are not willing to give support to the poor refugees. I really think this is a flat-rate diffamation of the Austrians, who have taken tens of thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands of refugees: [[Complaints with the liberals]] 1956 after the Hungarian crisis, 1968 after the Czech crisis, in the 1980s, a wave of refugees came from Poland, and even – and I say for good reason "even" – in the nineties, when a large flow of refugees came from Bosnia, of course, there was not only a political consensus but also a national consensus in the population that one must grant these persecuted people reception. I therefore say "even" because, at the same time, by the end of the 1980s, a missing immigration policy has brought an inflow of immigrants to Austria. The Minister of the Interior said it himself yesterday: We have been legally resident in Austria for 750 000 foreigners. I don't know what estimates there are now about the number of illegals. It is also said that between 150,000 and 300,000. So we have 1 million foreigners here in Austria. And yet, Mrs. Stoisits, there was always the willingness of the Austrians to give genuinely politically persecuted reception. Only, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if, like the Bosnia-Herzegovina refugees, it is noted that those who have been very welcome - and Mrs Moser has said: "for the time being"; they have thought that this is temporary; they are taken up as long as they are really at risk of life, and they are expected to return to their home after that – they now have a permanent residence permit – they have decided here a few weeks ago that 90,000 refugees who came to Austria at the time will now receive permanent residence – then they must not be surprised if integration is no longer possible in the future. [[Abg. Jäger: That's not true!]] Mrs Colleague, ask your own Minister what the figures look like! He has even told you that what Mrs Partik-Pablé has said is perfectly correct. In Austria, 90 000 Bosnian refugees have to be integrated, although, as the Minister has said, there are 750 000 foreigners legally resident here. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr Colleague! You're wrong about 30,000!]] These are sizes, Mrs Colleague, in view of the fact that we would all be in favour of integration is no longer possible. Where, for example, do you want to integrate another person in the residential districts, where there are 30 or 40 percent of foreigners, in the schools with a share of up to 90 percent? Where do you want to integrate immigrants into our society, into the local population? All of this does not work, and that is the problem that we want to point out over and over again. In our view, there is also little to be done in dealing with abuses, particularly in the area of crime and illegal foreigners in Austria. Mrs Partik-Pablé has repeatedly come up with proposals on how to deal with these problems. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is not possible, Mr Wabl, that there are already descriptions and traditions of how best to escape from the forceful. These are the problems! As long as there is such an immigration policy that integration is no longer possible, that the Austrians no longer feel comfortable in their home environment, because they have become foreigners in their home country, it will be difficult for Mrs Colleague to realize what you want, namely that Austria opens its borders and grants all the receptions that go better than in her own. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The Brazilians do not feel comfortable when so many criminal Austrians are there!]] That's certainly the wrong concept! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Of course, it is necessary to do something for Kosovo Albanians. But it may not be a solution to say that they can all come to us now. [[Abg. Wabl: No one says that!]] That can't be the solution! The solution must be to do everything in our power, to help Kosovo Albanians in Kosovo, to ensure that at last these measures of violence by Mr Miloševi% stop, that we finally ensure that Kosovo Albanians can live in peace and freedom and democracy in their own home country. [[Abg. Wabl: How do you take care of it?]] [[Abg. Wabl: How do you take care of it?]] Mr. Wabl! I hope that you will agree if negotiations do not help, that you will finally speak and react with the only language, the dictators like Mr Miloševi% understand that there is also military action to ensure that this murder and this distribution finally end! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the things that really help Kosovo Albanians, and not debates here in the house, how to record refugee flows in Austria. In this type of crisis prevention, namely the fact that such dictators, such criminals, are really shown in good time that the democratic community of states does not see these rulers pursuing their imperialist powers and their inhuman goals, Mr. Wabl, you saw us as allies. [[Abg. Wabl: Do you want Austria to attack Serbia?]] But you are always very quiet when it comes to such debates. Ladies and gentlemen! We are of course in favour – and this is also a principle of all of us – of allowing us to take up, as far as possible, politically persecuted, persecuted and living. But that cannot be a task of Austria alone. Here, too, the democratic community of states has a responsibility. It is our first goal, however, to address the problems where they can best be solved, namely at the root, where this regime causes such displacements and the flow of refugees. Minister of the Interior! In the country, we would expect you to intervene vigorously with the abuses in refugee policy and the abuses in foreign policy, so that the Austrians will see that there will be a distinction between those who can integrate here, those who are really politically persecuted, and those who abuse Austria and the Austrians in order to make things better in our country, and who often do not comply with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12380	Mr Oellinger referred to an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, start with the facts you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12404	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner claimed that Mrs Stoisits had said in her contribution to the debate that the Austrian population was showing a lack of willingness to accept it, that it had complained about it, and that, in his assessment of this claim, this was a flat-rate differentiation of the Austrian population. That was your statement, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an actual correction!]] I'm actually putting it right: Mrs Stoisits has said that refugees in this country are now faced with a different attitude by the authorities in Austria. Authorities are not the same as people, Mr Scheibner! In particular, because Mr Stoisits also mentioned the willingness to help the population, this is not a flat-rate differentiation of the Austrian population. The standard diffamation is yours!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12456	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. The remaining speaking time for your club in this debate is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12477	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the problem of refugees has become one of the most difficult in this House in the debate, especially when Members come to the speaker's desk – like Mr King – and argue in a way that I think is incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible to me that a Member who has been a member of this House for very long, very long, who was also a clubman of the ÖVP – a Christian-social party – obviously believes that he could accuse the party that is committed to human rights, that party that is working to a particular extent for the refugees, they argue indiscriminately, flat-rately, grippingly in general and cannot distinguish. Mr. King! The Greens know exactly what Austria has done in connection with refugees, in connection with the need of people from neighbouring countries. Of course, I am right to say to the Federal Minister that Austria, in connection with the Bosnia-Herzegovina conflict, has done a lot and great thing with the war in the former Yugoslavia – of course, because of the tax performance of the Austrian people and, of course, because of the personal use of very, very many people. Mr. King! However, it is unacceptable and very unfortunate that you, as a representative of a party that has a tradition different from that of the Freeman, a party which has always written the word solidarity, make itself a advocate of those who make the mood against very certain people who are in need. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He didn't make the mood!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, I am going to address you today to an extent that I hope will satisfy you. What else you say in your speeches is usually not acceptable. Mrs Pablo, you could give the King a hand, and you would be in a coalition with him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're making the mood!]] I say to you that the urgent question of the Greens has been put today, because Austria has practised such a deportation practice in the last weeks and months due to the new laws you have passed by a majority, which is because of the regulation of the safe third country. Ladies and gentlemen! This rule is inhuman, unolidarian and unfair. You know exactly what that means in the specific situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I assume that the Minister of the Interior is right when he says Hungary is a safe third country. But if there are reports of groups, of institutions that Hungary is not a safe third country in any case, Minister of State, then you should take these reports seriously, this information seriously, and should examine them specifically. With this I come to you, Mrs Partik-Pablé: I am excited whether you can be taken by the word or whether what you have offered here today was pure populism, pure mood. They have said many things that I strongly reject, because they make a subversive mood. But I don't want to discuss this with you now, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're making your mood all the time! They make moods against people, against me, for example!]] I also do not want to discuss the strange position of Mr Scheibner, who believes that Austria's solidarity is that the Austrian military is intervening in Serbia with combat operations. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said that?]] What else do you mean, Mr Scheibner? What else do you mean if you want the Greens' consent to combat action? – They are shattering it with peace-making operations. Mr Scheibner, Austria can make a solidarity contribution, but not in the Waffenbroederschaft, but Austria can make a contribution where it can actually provide solidarity aid, and that is exactly what concerns those people who are fleeing Kosovo. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[New condolences with the greens.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In 1989 Kosovo Albanians were granted autonomy. What was Your political work? What was Your political intervention in this matter? Mr King, what did your intervention look like from the ÖVP in 1989? Say that! Come on. They're going down and explain. You've done what you did to this house back then! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What did you do?]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, because I do not want to end my speech just with the attack against Mr King and with the attack against Mr Scheibner, I am taking up a proposal by Mrs Partik-Pablé, which specifically includes the implementation of our allegations, in a positive sense. They have said that you are in favour of rehabilitating and restoring those camps in which those people who are not sheltered in Austria, such as the Györ camp, which is more of a stable than a storage camp for people. We Greens have prepared a request to this effect which I am submitting, and I invite you, Mrs Colleague, if your statement was serious, and also Mr King, to bring this request together and sign it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You always condone me, and then I should support your request?]] - It's not about me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12603	Member of the European Parliament, read it. Please ask for the speaking time to expire.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12618	If you think that I have insulted you, I shall withdraw that in favour of this request. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, you can't take back what you said!]] Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's in your mind.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12678	Mr President, your speaking time has expired. I should like to remind you of the need to plan the reading of motions for resolutions in such a way that it can take place within the time scheduled for business regulation. Mr Scheibner spoke, who wanted to make an actual correction. Mr President, you know the essence of the actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12708	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl has claimed that in my contribution to the debate, I would have called for the Austrian military to enter Kosovo. - That's wrong. Instead, I have had the hope that the Greens will give your consent if, in Kosovo, then if negotiations no longer help, Miloševi% also with military means stops him from killing and selling further. [[Abg. Ollinger: Who's "man"?]] You know very well that NATO is the only organization capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12757	I note that the motion for a resolution, which Mr Wabl has read, has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mr Jung spoke on behalf of the last speaker in this debate. Your club will be available for 7 minutes in speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e12782	Mr President. [[Prolonged calls and appeals between the liberals and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here again, Mr Wabl has given the classic example of a phrasing "good man". [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] They asked the EIA and us what we did about it in 1989 when Kosovo became a problem in addition to other problems in the Balkans. Mr Wabl, you do not seriously believe that Mr Miloševi had been a member of the ÖVP or of the FPÖ from Austria. That's just ridiculous, he didn't listen to the Americans at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Don't go to the Wabl either!]] What are you doing? What's the other thing than phrase stamps? Then I have something to say to you, Mr Wabl, and I have been thinking for a while about whether I should say that now. [[Abg. Wabl: You with your army intelligence service were down, you knew everything anyway!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Are you ready now, Mr. Colleague? - Now I'm telling you something, you "Obergutmensch": I have been shown to have paid more than 40 000 S to two families in the rest of Yugoslavia from 1991 to 1995 – not now the military intelligence service. You "Obergutmensch", I don't know how many of you did that. Finally calm down with your "good-men's-dasin" and with your stencil-like layout! I'm tired of this up to the top – and so are many others. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now go back to reality and to your request. You have forgotten in your anger at the FPÖ that you actually wanted to address the question to the Minister of the Interior. You are primarily concerned with the non-recognition of words on the issue of asylum or non-currency. On this question you can only very limited or not criticise the officials, because the officials are implementing the laws given to them by this House and there is no evidence to date that an official would have violated them. They blame people who cannot resist it. That's fact number one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Moser said that the principle of solidarity should apply. – Mrs Colleague, the principle of legality still applies to the work of officials. The other, as far as solidarity is concerned, we can state here in this House. The official has to comply with the laws we're giving him. Therefore: Don't touch the wrong ones! There you have to attack the SPÖ, the ÖVP, but leave the officials in peace with it! - As far as this thing is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Any other way of doing this would also lead to a complete chaos, and we have heard it today. Which states do the asylum seekers and refugees prefer most? – Obviously, everyone would do that, where they are best: They're coming to Austria, they're coming to Germany. This alone shows that your accusations to the Republic of Austria or to individuals are not justified, because they will not go to Austria if they are not well received here. This, too, shows the integrity of your accusations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But in this context there is still a much more important point to address: If you really want to change something in Kosovo if you want to prevent it from happening too much worse than it is now, then you should not have addressed this question to the Minister of the Interior today, but to the Foreign Minister. Then you should have asked Dr. Mock what he intends to do, what the Presidency and what the EU is doing, so that the situation below... Please apologize, Dr. Schüssel. [[Call: Not Mock! Cuisine]] I wanted a better one than the one who is now presiding. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Then you should have asked the Foreign Minister what is happening there and what will happen there if we do not intervene if Europe does not do something. This is not a new knowledge, it was known three, four, five years ago, at the beginning of the Balkan campaign. This situation, which I am telling you today, and I hope I do not have to remind you, will become much worse, worse than then in Yugoslavia. This is not just Kosovo, it is about Macedonia. When it comes to Macedonia – Bulgaria has waged three wars because of this area – Turkey and Greece are getting involved, and the entire Balkans down to Turkey is becoming a crisis region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] There's something to do in time. But there are generally only phrases – you, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens! – Mr Commissioner Schieder! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then say what you want to do! Do you want to bomb Belgrade?]] I'll tell you: Bombarding in Bosnia and Herzegovina has brought the end of the war there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In Belgrade it will kill people!]] – It killed people in Bosnia too, otherwise it would not have worked. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Your attitude is cynical!]] No, my colleague, that's not cynical, that's the reality. It is certainly the question of whether human lives will be harmed. But I'm telling you: Because of your attitude – and this is convenient because you can easily represent it to the public – many more people are killed. [[Abg. Scheibner: 300,000 dead in Bosnia!]] Because the "pair" soldiers who paid for it were also the innocent, they did not meet Miloševi%. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Hundreds of thousands of civilians are affected, Mr. Schieder. What do you say? You these people? That's the good people's attitude that I'm attacking in all these ways. It's always easy, it's convenient to move back to this position and say what sounds nice and what's being recorded in the public. But it is quite different, and that is also the problem of many officers... – Is it not more terrible, Mr. Colleague, to see when hundreds of thousands of women, children, civilians are killed? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Such an attitude is terrible! In an officer's case, it's double terrible!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Dear Belgrade bombarders!]] – I didn’t say: Belgrade bombardments. [[Abg. Awesome!]] You said that. That's what's left you. It is about showing accordingly that it is serious. When NATO only once tried to show that it was seriously meant that Austria had cracked again – even during the exercises. We have not even been allowed to cross-flight, although the Foreign Minister has previously expressly stated that Kosovo cannot be neutral. This too is a "good manhood" that I accuse of the ÖVP. Talk on one side, but if it gets to the point, then don't trust yourself. That's the fact.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13008	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl asked what the Federal Government, what the People's Party did, when the Constitution of 1974 of the former Yugoslavia was unilaterally suspended by Miloševi% and the quasi-autonomous status of Kosovo ended. I can tell you: With the moment when this happened, there has been constant intervention by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Serbia. Since the end of Kosovo's autonomy, the CSCE has been involved. The then Foreign Minister Mock started the first stage of the CSCE procedure, then the second stage. This has not happened in any other case in Europe. At the party level of the Social Democrats and the EDU in Kosovo, where a number of fact-finding missions were made with Mr Rugova, Mr Krasnixi and other representatives of the opposition. I should like to remind you, Mr Wabl: It was your colleague, Marijana Grandits, who went to the crisis region with Mr Schieder and me. That is why I have now spoken so that these things do not remain in the room unanswered. It was this House that sent an old party delegation to the Balkans. We were at Miloševi%, Mr Schieder, Mrs Grandits and I. We have asked Miloševi% intensively for Kosovo. He offered us – Peter Schieder, you remember – to fly down to Kosovo – he provides us with an airplane – in order to inspect the closed university. We have been massively committed to opening the university. Her colleague, Marijana Grandits, also asked the then President Tudjman the most serious questions concerning arms and cetera within the framework of this mission. That is to say, we have consistently and always been committed to the human rights of the Albanians in Kosovo. Alois Mock has intervened many, many times personally, he even got the reputation to treat the Serbs unfairly. This policy has been consistently pursued by Wolfgang Schüssel, who is now chairperson of the Council. One of the main activities of the Foreign Minister and Deputy Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and the entire Federal Government is to protect human rights in Kosovo. I mean, you should take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13074	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. We now have to vote on two motions for resolutions tabled. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits and comrades concerning the right of residence for Kosovo refugees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the support of Hungary for the rehabilitation of the Györ reception camp. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13136	We are in favour of a short debate. This short debate concerns the request of the honourable Member. Main, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the Resolution 767/A (E) concerning the inactivity of the Austrian Federal Government in connection with the application for the 2006 Winter Olympics for a deadline until 16. to sit on July. The vote on this request will take place at the end of the debate. We are now beginning the debate. I recall the Rules of Procedure that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. However, the first speaker has 10 minutes available. Also for members of the Federal Government and for State Secretarys, 10 minutes are considered the guide. Mr Gaugg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian You have a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13172	Mr President. High house! As we are discussing such an essential question as the Olympic application of Klagenfurt – Friuli – Slovenia, I am surprised that it is not worth any government member to be present at this debate, which was already the subject of discussions in the Federal Finance Act. We think it is one of the most important and important decisions in the coming years for the Federal State of Carinthia that an application is not carried out superficially, lightly and halfheartedly, but that the entire economic and political force of a federal country, but also the Republic of Austria, should be behind it. In all seriousness, I call on the Social Democratic Members of the country of Carinthia to be aware of this responsibility. This Olympic application, which represents a century's chance, must not fall off to playball party-political tactics. [[Demonstrative applause and bravails of the Abg. Smolle.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] [[Abg. Smolle: That is a good conclusion!]] I have the impression that it has not yet overcome the Social Democratic Party in Carinthia... – Mr Smolle, perhaps I understand you in Slovenian easier. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Smolle.]] In any case, it seems that the Social Democratic Party has still not been able to accept that since 1989 it has not had an absolute majority in Carinthia, since then it has developed into an intrusion that kills its own officials, in the end, that the current competent sports expert is challenged by the outsiderwinkler as both the top-ranking candidate and at the Federal level as a health minister was not exactly a special lamp. I have to say that from the "Auwi" has become an "Aueh", which first of all carried out the sole acquisition for the SPÖ during the Olympic application, then has seen... – No, this is also very important here. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the liberals]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Friend Gaugg! You have to keep this election speech in Carinthia! That's an election speech!]] Dear Lord – whatever you are – President of the Hotel Association! This is a very crucial issue, especially for a hoteler in tourism, who should be interested in the fact that, if not Salzburg and Tyrol, Carinthia is taken into account in the Olympic application because we urgently need jobs and infrastructural measures necessary to prepare the Olympic candidate. But in our beautiful country of Carinthia, the SPÖ always succeeds in making the choice of managers – whether it is at the HW, the KTG, in the state hospitals or at the Olympic Manager, so it will be the first time after the allocation of the Olympic Games. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Then someone who appears to be a miracle from the third set of a private enterprise comes, and one needs weeks to find out that perhaps he is not the right person. Again, this "nudler party" is paralysed until you reach out to one... [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:What? "Nudler party"? What's that? Unheard of!]] Mr Khol! What the SPÖ has fabricated in Carinthia was and is a "nudler party". [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign. – Persistent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP: This is unheard of!]] I can tell you that, you know why? - I don't find any other words. I can also say total failure, everything you can think of! Mr Kostelka! You can hear it, but you will find your party friends working in the sports field in Carinthia...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13284	Deputies! Excuse me, maybe we can calm down again now, okay? Just don't stir up each other! [[Call: Mr President! He says "Nudler party."]] – No, no, I also heard calls that I would rather not have heard. Now I'm asking for a moderate tone from the pult, and I'm gonna miss the calls.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13318	Do you know what's bothering me? That if the FPÖ apply for the... [[Call to the SPÖ: He lives on the favor of the President!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: You can't call us a "nudler party"!]] Calm down! You don't need to be so nervous when we catch you. Look, you only need this deadline request, which runs until 16. I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. In my opinion, it is already crucial whether you see an application seriously, or whether you see it only as a joke in view of the forthcoming elections in the federal states. [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Because of Salzburg and Tyrol... [[Abg. Marizzi: You can't call us a "nudler party"!]] Dear friend Marizzi, otherwise your Carinthian friends are meant for us to limit it so that the excitement is not so great. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it was promised that all guarantees would have been available for weeks and months. The fact is, they're only here now. And although they are from Slovenia, Friuli, Carinthia, Klagenfurt, you are not prepared to accept a request that gives the application a corresponding meaning. In accordance with point 18 of this application, which is not later than 1 January 2014 at the latest. September of this year, guarantees by the Federal Government are required to assume the responsibility for carrying out these Olympic Games – guarantees for the candidate, guarantees for the structural measures and guarantees for finance and so on. And these warranties are missing. All these things are used by you in order not to guarantee a success. It seems that the elections in Salzburg and Tyrol are just as important to you as in Carinthia. Your motto is therefore: We don't have to make any decisions before and leave the Carinthians alone in the rain. The application and preparation for the visit to Nagano Olympic City speak volumes: Zion printed special postage stamps, led advertising field trains, Turin was represented by Agnelli in Nagano, who met with all IOC members there. – What about the Carinthians? They did not even have accreditations to function and act accordingly. It has also been promised that there will be sponsors. It is known that 34 percent of the revenue at the Olympic Games is made up of sponsors. Carinthia, however, has not been able to prove it to this day, so there is also a serious failure of the sports referent Ausserwinkler. These Olympic games, which are associated with a high financial, economic and security risk, are further processed dilettantly by someone in whom the SPÖ is not even sure whether it is reasonable to leave him at the head of the party. Let us give young people, tourism and workers a serious opportunity to cooperate in the construction of the Olympic Games in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, in the city of Klagenfurt, in Friuli and Slovenia! It is they who are always talking about internationalization, who are always talking about the need to introduce cross-border measures, which were supposed to have all been enthusiastic about it, up to Mr. Sport Spokesman Grabner, that it is necessary to carry out these games in Carinthia. I assume that he is still standing at his word, so I would ask him to make a first and foremost appeal to the Carinthian Members that they are also in favour of this idea. I ask you again: Where is the real brake threshold to agree to a request that gives the Olympic application, as it stands, a solid and serious opportunity? This is independent of how high the expenses will actually be, because the experts stress over and over again: If the Olympic Games are well marketed, there are no financial losses for a region, but a corresponding recovery. I expect this because it is simply necessary for the Federal Republic of Carinthia. I therefore appeal that these Olympic Games in Klagenfurt, Friuli and Slovenia become a national matter, because we only have one candidate. I would like all Members of this House to recognize and take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13393	Mr Gaugg! It has been shown in recent months' debates that there is an increasing flow of tone which is clearly a personal evasion, and I believe that this is damaging to Parliament as a whole. I would like to expressly tell you that the term "nudler party" is an expression of such evasion. You used it several times, as I have now verified, and I give you a call for order for it. However, I would like to ask you again, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to this kind of evasion, which has a very specific form, here once and for all. Mr Kostelka! You have referred to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13426	Mr President. I would like to thank you for the objective management of the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to ask for such a call for order according to § 103 of the Rules of Procedure, because it is unacceptable for me to see a substantial proportion of the population of a whole federal country being insulted in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13456	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13478	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The expression "Nudler-Partie" is related...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13505	Deputies! Please, let's forget that term now! I have just made it clear that I reject it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13532	The...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13562	Ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Leikam. I would also ask you to stop this call. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13577	Nevertheless, once again: The expression "nudler party" is related... – Yes, you don't want to hear that. [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] That will hurt you very much, ladies and gentlemen. That's going to be You are very hurt because this expression has fallen in connection with the miracle that has been taken from the private sector to market the Olympic application. This miracle from the private sector was an industrial manager of a large Carinthian company and became unanimous – unanimously! – also appointed by the Kärntner State Government with the votes of the two liberal government members. So this sense of wonder from the private sector has also been ordered about the desire of the liberals and must therefore also be included in this expression, which has just been used here at the speaker's desk. Also You have in your ranks this kind of people, as she has mentioned here, Mr Gaugg. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you have listened to Mr Gaugg, then once again it is clear why Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, Mr Grasser, has just left the state government: It is unthinkable to be able to work with such people at all. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] It is inconceivable to be able to realize with people such a large project that, as we have just heard, comes down in an incredibly depressing way about others who are very committed. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has an excellent reputation internationally – overall and in sport. This is demonstrated by the many major events in our country: World Cups and World Cups in many sectors. This international reputation will help us to achieve our great common goal as well. I really think it is a very bad insult to hundreds of volunteers and full-time staff at the 2006 Olympic Games Application Committee in Klagenfurt, when the representative of the Freedom Party Completely superficial and halfhearted. This is an insult to these employees in all committees who work skillfully and are full of time in the plan. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] You are in your way of making politics, accompanied by an incredible urge for extermination, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It is really no longer understandable how you want to make politics in this country. The word "consens" seems to be a foreign word for you, you simply don't know that! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The instability is obviously the focus of your political considerations. You need this to achieve your political goals. At least leave the Olympic application out of the game if you want to pursue your party policy goals here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now again on the request of the liberals. The advantage of having the same discussion in the morning as in the afternoon is undoubtedly also that you can obtain even more information in order to get involved. This request should be made clear – I have now made sure again, also with the competent Olympic application attorney and after consultation with the International Olympic Committee – which is expected by the Federal Government. It is expected that the Federal Government will make a practically political statement in which it undertakes to comply fully with the Treaty between the International Olympic Committee and the Olympic Charter and the City of Organizers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply not possible and not possible for clear declarations of guarantee to be made at the present time, because the contract between the IOC and the organiser city of Klagenfurt will only be concluded after a possible surcharge. [[Abg. Grabner: Declaration of intent!]] That is why it is sufficient for the International Olympic Committee – and I have once again made sure that this declaration of guarantee is made by the Federal Government as a political statement of intent. That is why we do not need this request. We do not need this authorisation either, because this declaration of guarantee does not contain an amount. This is the formal procedure. Please note! – [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] This has not come to our minds now, but we are dealing with the Olympic application. We're dealing with this! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, back to the managers. A second manager was appointed, who is said to have been the wishful candidate of the Freeman, but above all the wishant candidate of the party observer Haider. He has not even been in office for one day, since he had to step back.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13666	Deputies! The speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13681	All right, I'm right, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13712	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13733	Mr President. High house! Mr Gaugg has appealed from this point of view: The 2006 Olympic Chance must not become a political gameball. Mr Gaugg! I agree. I'm just asking you: Then why did you open the election campaign for Carinthia today, eight months ago? Second question: Why do you use expressions like "Nudler Party" and the like to name your political competitors? Do you think that this is appropriate to achieve a common approach? That's what you're lying about! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It has happened more often that the Freedom Party has stood on the brake with one foot, while the other has tried to give gas. Today, she is even trying to give full gas in a question that has so far blocked everything that could only be blocked. I just need to quote the various newspaper notes of the last half year to prove this to you. ==References== The standard reads December 1997: FP-chef Jörg Haider has more than once signaled that Carinthia's three-country application is a thorn in his eye. Economic Councillor Karl-Heinz Grasser, a declared Senza Confini advocate, is now obviously to be isolated internally. – That’s what happened, he’s gone! He didn't volunteer, you can tell somewhere, but not in this house. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== ==References== Hair: Slovenia not olive mature. – Does anyone think the Slovenians don't read it? Today, however, they want them to make declarations of guarantee that they are making joint social agreements with us. Do you think that this was a positive contribution to the Olympic application? Don't do that! That's how it looks. So you have so far sabotaged everything that has been per Olympia. Two managers were removed on the intervention of the Freedom Party. Mr Schwab from the Ennstal has not even occurred, and the second, Novak, one has then been treated until he has thrown the towel from himself. And today, with your proposal for a deadline, you want to take the flight forward? – I can tell you: People in Carinthia don't believe you. You don't believe that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We as the People's Party do not need to participate in your escape movements. We had a clear and clear attitude from the very beginning and said a clear and clear yes to the 2006 Olympic application. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only that is why it is possible today to put a social contract on the table, with the city of Klagenfurt bringing in 0.8 million, the country of Carinthia 3.2 million, Slovenia 4 million and Friuli 4 million. That is the basic requirement, otherwise we would not have to go to the IOC at all. The second: It is also the guarantee declaration of Friuli – submitted by Slovenia this week, decided by the Carinthian Landtag last week – but only because there was a consensus of at least two parties in that state and because the value of this great opportunity was recognized. Mr Gaugg! As a Carinthian, I am convinced that the Republic of Austria will not let us down on this question. We trust in our government, and we trust in our Parliament. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I have no doubt at all that, as soon as the preparatory work at regional level is completed, Austria will fulfil its obligation and support our application to the International Olympic Committee accordingly. I therefore urge you, and that is what I am serious about, to finally understand, as a political group in the country and here, what it is all about: Austria and Klagenfurt have only one chance if there is this three-country application. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Will the warranty declaration be given?]] – It will be delivered, colleague Ofner. That's what you can assume. But we are ruining our chances of setting a false signal in the internal dispute both in the country and in the federal government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's why I'm asking you: Give up your defiance! Even if an idea comes from another political side, it is far from wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13826	The honourable Member is now on the floor to speak. Chief. 5 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e13847	Mr President. High house! Mr Wurmitzer! I would like to give you two things as a correction along the way. First: Not colleague Gaugg has started the election campaign for Carinthia today, but your party with the Oympia Plakat and then also Mr. Landespartierobmann Ausserwinkler, who, because of his negative image values, also threw himself into a pre-election campaign for the SPÖ, has started to use Olympia politically. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Of course!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And that's why you want to destroy Olympia!]] Secondly, Mr Wurmitzer! We do not need to be instructed by you that we would not have done anything for Olympia in Carinthia and would have been on the brake. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It is obvious and verifiable and clear to every Carinthian who is interested in the application of the Olympics that those communities in which the liberals have the mayor and decisive influence have had the best voting results for Olympia in Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's why you also boycotted them and sabotaged them!]] However, the reason for this is not that you have promoted this Olympic application, or that Mr Manzenreiter has officially spoken against it in Villach, but that the liberals have been in favour of the Olympic application from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Mr Wurmitzer and Mr Leikam.]] Mr Wurmitzer! I would also draw your attention to the fact that the head of state of Salzburg has proved to be a bad loser. Even after the national decision to give Carinthia the consent had fallen, Salzburg continued to make the Carinthian efforts and acted on them. My knowledge is that the head of state in Salzburg is not a party member of the Freedoms, not one of the Social Democrats, but your group, Mr Wurmitzer. Search So first you in your own environment, who wants to bring this century chance for Carinthia into the abyss in the final effect! These are highly selfish and private reasons why this front was created in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, Mr Wurmitzer! You know very well that if Austria, as Secretary General Jungwirth said in a public statement, until 1. In September 1998, no full declaration of liability and guarantee can be presented in the financial field, which are lost at the Olympic Games for Carinthia and Austria. Mr Wurmitzer! Mr Leikam! These statements should also give you some thought. They have today acted as if a guarantee declaration which the Federal Government may give in July or August, or whenever it has time in addition to its European projects for national concerns, will be timely in this way. [[Abg. Wormitzer: With what budget will you be held?]] I must tell you, Mr Wurmitzer, that this will not be enough. [[Abg. Wormitzer: With what you always refused?]] In Austria, there is still a financial constitution in which it is clearly and clearly written, who has to provide for such declarations on a budgetary basis and who is in a constitutional position: We – Parliament! Mr Wurmitzer and Mr Leikam. I'm telling you in the clearest sense: We liberties will not see how this Parliament is cut to the brink in one of its important competences, namely in the budgetary, by you in an unconstitutional procedure. We won't take that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Yes, that's it! Now it's out!]] Take the deadline request from us liberals! We could do this on 16 May. On 17 July, he was appointed to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in which he was appointed to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. On 1 July, on a day where two special sessions have already taken place, these guarantee declarations in accordance with the Constitution will be accepted in the House. [[Abg. Leikam: Now we know where you want to go!]] Mr Leikam! It's not a jump, but we liberals say as always: Yes to these Olympic Games! However, these must count economically for Carinthia and Austria and must not write "Senza confini" on the flags and negate the rights of the old Austrian minorities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Now we know!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Now comes what is in the back of the head!]] These games should finally bring the spirit of tourism that this sector has long needed. For, Mr Leikam, you too should be aware that Olympic games at the expense of your own minority are a poor and expensive price.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14042	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14064	Ladies and gentlemen! We are just taking a look at the downfalls in the Carinthian state policy. This beautiful federal country, where so nice people live, has a problem, namely its national policy. It does not bring any solutions to this country, but only difficulties. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As an Austrian, I am not authorized to distribute school notes. I don't measure that. I can only say to all Carinthia together: You have two options: Either you play these Pradler knight games until March and continue to damage the economic base of your country or you come to reason. But this is probably a question of Carinthian national policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That these Olympic Games together with the neighbours in Slovenia and Friuli are a great opportunity for the southernmost state of Austria, that much is happening culturally unheard of, I would ask the Freemans to share with the Home Office and other reactionary groups in Carinthia, who still believe that Carinthia is good only if no foreigners come in – and apparently the Slovenians who live in Carinthia are already foreigners. That's your job! The Freedom Party should not try to reap voices but to make moods for the common idea – for Friuli, for Slovenia and for Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: You have no idea!]] – I have no idea, dear Gaugg! I know, 'cause I'm not a Carinthian and not as drilled as you are. Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually about the deadline proposal that we shall vote in favour of Liberals. I think it to a considerable extent that the Federal Government takes decisions on the liability of double-digit billions without dealing with Parliament, this House. In § 51 of the Federal Constitution, Parliament's budgetary sovereignty is clearly defined by the Federal Finance Act. Paragraph 77 of the Federal Constitution states that the Federal Government has to do what we, the representatives of the people, decide to do in this country. I think it is a wrong way, and I believe that the whole of Parliament, all the political groups, should be opposed to the federal government's abuse of power. Because their motto is: At some point in August, we will decide on some sort of commitment, and then we will make it ex post in Parliament. This is not the parliamentaryism that we Liberals wish for. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And I am sure that the ladies and gentlemen of the other groups of the House must also consider the extent to which Parliament should emancipate from the government and take on its actual role as representatives of the people of our country over the government. Ladies and gentlemen! The request itself of the liberals – to which we do not agree with the deadline; we only agree that he should be treated – confuses me. Three, four hours ago, when Mr Klubobmann Haider made a request, we discussed a liability of 14 billion schilling. This proposal mentions 11 billion schillings. How much is it really? [[Abg. Smolle: Some billion more or less doesn't matter!]] There are two unfortunate facts to be found: On the one hand, the Federal Government obviously does not find it worth the effort to lead liabilities through Parliament in two-digit billions in time. On the other hand, it is unfortunate how the liberals "put around" with the billions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14141	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14163	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three points: First: The Greens fully support the project "Senza confini". That's what I wanted once. [[Abg. Grabner: That's where we decided! Yeah?- Oh, my God!]] Secondly, At large sporting events of this kind – where greens are often a bit skeptical for good reasons – not only are financial, organisational, legal and similar questions arise, but also ecological – especially in winter games. I think that Austria, Italy and Slovenia have the opportunity to take new steps in this. Thirdly, The next summer games will be held in Sydney in 2000 if I am not mistaken. Australia has reached an agreement with Greenpeace that various ecological issues should be examined and addressed together in this context. In this or similar form, I think you should also consider the "Senza confini" project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14200	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Please take the seats! We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 767/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning the inactivity of the Austrian Federal Government in connection with the application Klagenfurts for the orientation of the 2006 Winter Olympics until 16. In July 1998 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: Rules of Procedure, Mr President. In accordance with Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure, I am seeking to count the votes!]] The vote has been called for. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the shark?]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Work!]] I ask the two scribes to come to me to carry out this narrative. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No stadler and no haider!]] [[Abg. Leikam: The supporters are not even there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have heard the motion for a resolution. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request for approval. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Oye! That's little!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Half of the group is against it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Haider doesn't even have his group under control!]] [[Abg. Leikam: The shark is for this too!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Leikam: There you see the seriousness!]] – 29 votes in favour of this request and 106 against. That's the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Live calls.]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14370	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 3 to 8 of the agenda and speak as next speaker to Mrs Hagenhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14392	Mr President. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Civil Service Law Novelle...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14425	Excuse me, Mrs. Deputies. First of all, I should like to say that Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. Secondly, could we make sure that someone on the government side is sitting on the bank? Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14455	Thank you, Mr President. - Dear Members! The Civil Service Law Novelle to be treated today should first bring clarity and transparency, but also administrative simplification, both for workers and for the service provider. I would like to draw up a number of points, in particular the creation of a central medical service at the Federal Pension Office. The responsibility of the staff's pension insurance institution for medical examination in the incapacity procedure had to be discontinued as a result of a finding by the Administrative Court of Justice of July 1997. That condition, which we previously believed to eliminate, namely different assessment practice, such as among officials through the review by official doctors, was thereby restored. This has recently led to a different standard of access to the service incapacity board. The aim is to establish a central medical assessment body at the Federal Pensions Office with a view to achieving a uniform standard of assessment. In the future, a chief physician will carry out a uniform review with competent doctors who also have special training in the field of occupational health. If, in certain cases, additional expert advice is required, it is also necessary to appoint experts from the various regions, depending on where the official or the official comes from, to draw up an opinion. This is, as has been said, sent to this Federal Pension Office for the submission to the chief physician, who will then be on the subject. I think this is a very good way to go, as it is also possible to produce decentralised opinions, but on the other hand there is a job that can provide uniform access for all federal staff to obtain the service incapacity pension. – That would be the first essential point! Another important point, in my opinion, is also the change to the travel fee regulation in § 39, by which the administration is simplified in so far, as general army officials who provide executive services and are mainly active in the field of foreign services, no longer have to make individual payments in the future, but are paid monthly in the form of flat-rate remuneration. This makes sense because it brings administrative simplification both to the service provider's government and to officials in the executive service. For reasons of time and time discipline, I would like to conclude my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14507	Mr Hans Helmut Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14542	Mr President. A Minister or State Secretary on the Government Bank cannot be welcomed. I regret that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Secretary of State are taking this debate seriously and present. I should therefore like to ask the President to interrupt the meeting until the Secretary of State or the Minister is present.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14564	Deputies! I have received information that Mr Edlinger will come in one minute. I'm asking for understanding. Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14579	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating six agenda items or six reports from the Financial Committee today in one which, unfortunately, is not at all related. It would therefore have made sense to conduct the debate separately. This debate is about civil servants' service law, then about different double taxation agreements, it is also about the classification of postgraduate graduates and about the Stock Exchange Act. I do not think that such a set-up of the reports makes sense, and I suggest that the next time the agenda is drawn up, we should go a little more closely or make the composition so that we can perhaps lead to a major debate. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus my contribution on the novelle to the Civil Service Law. The situation in connection with this novelle is somewhat bizarre. We have already said in the Committee that we had to debate a novel on civil service law, in which the various members of the political groups did not really know what it was all about. It's a novel to change 20 federal laws. We had received very short-term amendments of various kinds. Under these conditions, serious, serious consultation in a committee is not possible. That is why my appeal to the chairman of the committee or to the government parties is to finally consider another procedure. The Committee president, Mr Novotny, has announced that he will forward the documents to the members of the Committee in the future, and that the opposition will also be included in the preparatory talks and in the preliminary work. The news I hear well, only I lack the faith, ladies and gentlemen. Now on the main theme of this novel, to the Civil Service Law. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address three essential points. First of all, I should like to point out that this is, among other things, a change in the parental leave allowance. I should like to remind you that the National Council has decided on a resolution that it would no longer be possible to use the term "carer leave allowance" because Karenz is not a vacation, and therefore there can be no leave allowance. [[Abg. The five minutes are already over!]] The Secretary of State has granted such an examination. I regret that he is not present and therefore cannot answer the House. I assume that, as he has promised, he will make a corresponding change on his own initiative, so that we can choose the name of the laws as planned and intended by the National Council. Secondly, in the context of this discussion and in the context of this innovation, the need to change the order in public service functions, particularly in senior public service functions, to require compulsory participation in or mandatory pre-use in the framework of internships. An additional qualification is provided for in relation to internships in the economy or in institutions of the European Union or in intergovernmental bodies. Additional mobility is required. This is also justified, and I should like to quote from the explanatory remarks because these explanatory remarks reflect a very interesting pattern of public service and also lead to self-disqualification of the public service. It states that this mandatory introduction of internships is therefore necessary, because too long a stay in the same field of work, especially among future managers, leads to overfeaturationism, operational blindness, lack of criticalness, lack of creativity and a lack of willingness to change. Ladies and gentlemen! Confirm and write to It is clear that this is the situation in the public service and that there must therefore be mandatory internships in order to reduce it. I ask the Minister responsible why it has not long been possible to make clear rules within the framework of careers to ensure that top functions in the field of public services are occupied with persons who have not remained in their small service but who have had other pre-uses in the public service or in other areas. We did not need such legal regulations because they would have been possible in the autonomous design of the Federal Service anyway. It is quite beautiful and good, but in reality it will be very difficult to implement it. Because my question is also: How do you intend to implement and enforce all this organisationally? Thirdly and last point: I would like to point out a situation which has emerged in the course of the debate and which the people who have been present have not really known what it is all about. With the amendment to the Civil Service Law, the top division of the Austrian federal army is changed. I do not know, Minister of Finance, that my question is also addressed to the colleagues of the Socialist Group, whether you are so aware of it. As part of this amendment to the Civil Service Law, the former Chief of Cabinet of the Minister of Defence is inconceivably upgraded to become a Chief of Staff of the Minister of State Defense, and the corresponding competences are defined as well. I would like to read them out here so that they can also be included in the Minutes. The head of staff of the Minister shall in particular be responsible for the management of the group as well as for individual departments. – Now it becomes interesting: In order to effectively carry out and coordinate these tasks, the Head of staff of the Minister shall have access to the overall organisation of the Federal Army in both the central and secondary areas. [[Abg. Scheibner: I cannot imagine that the SPÖ has decided to do so!]] It is organized outside and, by its speciality, identical in addition to the sections of the department. The Chief of Staff is therefore also responsible for coordinating the various sections. [[Abg. Boy: Ruttenstorfer didn't pay attention to that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the function of a chief of general staff. The introduction of such a function is a highly political function, ladies and gentlemen. It is common practice in all countries that such functions are also subject to a corresponding democratic control instrument. In Austria, it is happening by means of a change of the Civil Service Law. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that the Socialist Group is not at all aware of the situation and has been drawn over the table. Your attempts to correct this as part of a committee statement are also only a weak solution, Mr Gaál. I would also like to make a brief mention of this committee statement because it does not really solve the problem. In other words, it will be necessary to discuss this question again, to discuss politically to what extent we wish to have such a function. In conclusion, I would like to read the Committee's statement on the minutes: "The Financial Committee assumes that, in the context of the assignment of the Chief of Staff of the Federal Minister for Defence of the State to Function Group 8 of the M BO 1 Use Group..., access to the overall organisation of the Unit and organisational independence exists only in relation to the special functions mentioned in the Explanatory Notes... and is not associated with the coordination capacity exercised." . A committee statement which must be read five times in order to understand it, and even then the problem is not solved. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot and do not want to give our approval to such a novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14654	President. — The debate is closed. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14676	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to draw from these six reports of the Financial Committee one report and use them for my contribution to the debate: That's the 1st. Service law Novelle 1998. In my opinion, it is by far the most important legislative package in these six reports of the Financial Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a package of 21 legislative novels based on a government proposal and a comprehensive amendment by the Financial Committee. I would like to say two things that I have already mentioned in the Financial Committee: I admit, I don't know any area where the difference between formal constitution and real constitution is as great as in this matter. In reality, we are going to adopt laws here whose content is the result of months of negotiations between the employer and the public service trade union – provisions which in large areas have almost collective contractual character, I would say. One must be so honest and admit that on both sides – on the part of the public employer and on the part of the Public Service Union – there is probably only a handful of experts who can even look at this huge package of laws. I therefore, as a previous speaker has rightly said, in the Committee on Finance, if we once again, I spoke for my group, have received such a comprehensive amendment two days before the committee, then we will no longer decide for ourselves before Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, I agree with my colleagues in the political groups and I have also found understanding of this with Mr Ruttenstorfer. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say something: I think we should also consider whether, in fact, the legislator is called upon to decide on all these things that we decide on in this package. I think we should be so honest, to say, we should consider whether this would not require a change in our legal system. It is not necessary to precisely regulate and define every handle made by a public servant and any supplement by the legislator. This is a regulation I do not want it to have. I would also like to see liberalisation and a delegation of responsibility for public service staff, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we decide today on this package of laws, we should also look at the question that is particularly important to me, namely whether the public employer takes the slogan "human capital is the most important capital" as seriously as the private provider. I would just like to say one example: We have a comprehensive law on the protection of workers in the field of health, worker protection and health prophylaxis, which we have agreed to in this House of the Economy. In the public service, however, there is still no such thing as to be expensive on the grounds that it would be too expensive. Ladies and gentlemen! Either! – Either it’s too expensive for the economy, or it can also be the public service! Here I expect a clarification of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: We are living in a time of incredibly rapid change. The world is changing incredibly rapidly, and I think we must assume that these changes in public service cannot pass. The libraries are full of management literature, with works on management of change, in which a fundamental principle is always mentioned, namely the principle that one cannot order the will of change, but one must experience and work together. I am therefore saying this because any changes in the public service, if necessary, can only be carried out together with the employees and not against the employees, ladies and gentlemen. Here I understand the attitude of employees in the public service, even if we are of course in the position of the employer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that we should also be so honest when we speak so much of New Public Management, of Lean Administration, and admit that this goal can only be achieved if, as legislator, we do not define every single step, not every single handle that the public servant does, through law and through novels. I think here would be a big throw with a look into the 21st. ==References== In fact, we must take a liberalisation step to achieve flexibility in the public service, in the interests of public employees, but also in the interests of the quality of the location of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. For one thing, I believe, is undisputed, and I would also like to conclude by saying that the quality of public administration is becoming an increasingly important location factor in global competition. If we listen to many foreign investors today and the only question is often: If I decide to invest in Austria, when can I start? that means that the question: How long will approval procedures take in the public sector? has become an incredible competitive factor. If we have heard from the Minister for Economic Affairs today what an incredible success it is that 90 percent of the approval procedures – 90 percent of the approval procedures! – already less than three months, my Ladies and gentlemen, then we should acknowledge that too. We should recognise what has already been demonstrated by this government and also by the public service to reform spirit. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But the foreign investors also fail if you...!]] In this sense, we would also like to agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14739	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14761	I can very much agree with many points that Mr Dr. Stumpfully mentioned. There is no question that this is a matter in which it is probably not even a handful of officials, trade unionists in detail. I also share your view that this, of course, has a collective contractual character over widest distances, which we decide here. The difficulty I see is as follows: When collective agreements are concluded in the economic sector, employers' associations and workers' associations are opposed to each other, and employers have to consider their willingness to make concessions. In this area, it is different: The employer is not the one who would now have to carry the personal risk directly, and therefore it is not quite easy to see how we can extend an extended collective contract model to these types of contracts without taking into account the risk of third party contracts, namely the taxpayer. I say that even though I am an official myself and might benefit from this kind of regulation. In detail, I must say that this government template is excellently documented in the explanations on wide distances – I have already said so in committee. For all who are interested, it also contains a clear table on, for example, the difference between an expenditure or revenue assessment on the one hand and the cost or revenue on the other. – These two things can be quite apart. Mr Ruttenstorfer, President of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. But essentially, it is a matter for insiders and a matter for lenses for the lecture, university or other field. For example, I have with great interest the cost assessment for the item "How does the exclusion of the admission of good faith from pensions paid after the death of the official affect?" ==References== That's an important point, admittedly! That this will be regulated will probably be correct and important. The problem for our honourable Member, however, is that this civil servant service law, along with all the related materials, is now approaching a complexity that is close to the ASVG – and that is not necessarily positive. In short, to the other points: We will vote in favour of the government template for the double taxation agreement with Slovenia, which is not with Ukraine, not because we consider the agreement on Ukraine to be bad, but just to point out one point: In the Treaty with Slovenia, something is clearly regulated – whether it's good or bad, it's on a different sheet; but it's quite clearly regulated – which, as far as I was Dean at the university, has always made great difficulties for me: How are foreign professors invited to lectures, guest lectures, guest professorships and so on treated tax? – In this respect, there is regular uncertainty. The same is certainly true of artists and similar speakers. In the Treaty with Slovenia, this is clearly regulated in Article 20, not in the Treaty with Ukraine. I believe that the Austrian negotiators should also consider what they really want to enter into these double taxation agreements on this point. Unfortunately, I cannot accept the proposal by Firlinger, which is the next point, regarding the privatisation of state-owned companies; we have already discussed this in committee. It contains three points, of which I find the first two points excellent: The mandatory requirement of advice before a company is transferred, and the case with the employees' shares to be examined in advance are completely in order. But I do not understand why 50 percent of the total share to be sold on the stock exchange must be. This may usually be correct, but I can remember that the federal government, I believe, has dozens of small-scale participations in cable cars, transport companies, some obscurated companies, and why should the sale of a 3-percent share in such an undertaking necessarily be linked to the stock market? That, I think, makes no sense. On the other hand, I consider the request made by my colleague, Mr Hoof, to be absolutely correct and comprehensible on the classification of professional high school graduates. I also do not think that this will lead directly to costs. It is not required that a university graduate be paid A-value automatically, but that he can apply for an A-post as if he had a university title. I mean, this kind of competition didn't hurt the universities at all, and as far as I know, there's already at least in the municipal area of the University of Applied Sciences in Carinthia in Spittal. The communities, I believe, will have to come up with something about the classification of these people. And for the covenant, I believe, the same is true in principle. We are similarly positive about the application of Hazelsteiner regarding stock exchange law. In the meantime, the application is probably largely obsolete because the Takeover Act is on the agenda. This is not the fault of Mr Hazelsteiner, because his request has been in committee since January 1997. This is very short and would have been in a very elegant way, I believe, could solve the problem of minority protection in the case of acquisitions of companies, but unfortunately has been slammed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] Nevertheless, I think it is the right signal to agree to the request today, even if it can only be a symbol of recognition for the idea of Mr Hazelsteiner.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14821	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14845	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to focus very briefly on the Civil Service Law. After all, it is the result of very long negotiations between servants and the Confederation as a service provider, and it is logical to understand that this has, of course, become a very complex and complex bill. In addition to the many formal adaptations to amended authorities' powers, adaptations to amended legislation and the like, some minor, partly more far-reaching changes are included in this amendment. I also think that this central assessment body at the Federal Pensions Office is one of the very important innovations for procedures in the event of incapacity for service. My colleague, Mr Hagenhofer, has already mentioned this in detail. In view of the very different assessments and assessments that have been carried out so far, I think that such a central assessment body, which is concerned with the respective use of services and the related load, is much more fair in the sense of uniform standards and uniform standards. In connection with the decision of this official service right, I believe that it is also very important or would be necessary to establish a new comparable contract service law which is already being negotiated with employees' representatives. Of the approximately 180 000 employees in the public service, 120 000 are officials and 60 000 are contract staff. We have already provided for officials of general administration and also for those in manual use from 1995 onwards for reforms in the direction of increased mobility and better payment in the exercise of functions. However, the contract staff are worse paid and usually do not have those career opportunities like officials. The contractual service law now negotiated between the Federal Government and the Workers' Office must therefore be a step towards greater justice in remuneration and also equality in career opportunities. Since motivated employees are of such vital importance for every company and therefore, of course, also for the federal and public sectors, I consider a modern and a performance-oriented service right to all workers to be extremely important. After all, public administration is, as it were, the backbone of our economy, and I am convinced that only committed and motivated employees can ensure the smooth functioning of the "Österreich company" within the meaning of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14888	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14909	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to briefly comment on the motion for a resolution 711/A (E) concerning the privatisation of state-owned companies. Federal Minister! They have asked me in the Committee whether I am not satisfied with the results of the privatisations carried out in the last few years in the ÖIAG. I have told you in the Committee that I am very pleased and that there is no reason to criticise what the two gentlemen in the ÖIAG have done on privatisations so far. That's fine. That's not the point either. The point is, rather, that in recent months and weeks there have been a number of transfers to the ÖIAG, which you, Minister of Finance, and your State Secretary have claimed, are not directly linked to privatisation. The shares would be parked there once. . I am telling you that we need to see this in the longer term, because what is going on today and what perhaps is going on for the next two years does not necessarily have to be so for all eternity. Because I would just like to remind you of what a Minister of Finance does when he comes back into bad budget needs. He will consider something to gain revenue, and then the question of privatisation will appear again very well. There are a number of good companies that are quite privatising. I think it makes sense before you transfer to know once what the short-term price limit is worth. You should do this cleanly and properly so that you do not hear a Lamento afterwards that you have given it too cheaply. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why we are, and that's what I'm asking for. Second point: Mr Van der Bellen said that he did not understand that this must be transferred via the stock exchange. I mean, because there are sensitive majority groups. Especially in the banking sector, especially if you perhaps take the question of AVZ participation, you will see very well that the way across the stock market is the only clean and transparent way to prevent any muzzle, Minister of State! And that is what I am talking about in this proposal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You just need to take the example of Steyr-Daimler-Puch. It must be noted here that the company was actually brought too cheaply to the man, even if it is only an indirect national or sub-state enterprise, but this is the problem. The last point on this request: Federal Minister! But I am also concerned with employee participation. There are no regulations, there are no framework conditions. I believe that what the VOEST Alpine has done was exemplary. They have offered their employees a significant package, but this has been done voluntarily. I would have liked to see a solution - I do not know, Minister of State, that we are talking about it too: What is an appropriate employee participation? Is that 10 or 15 percent in these areas that are under discussion? What about the retention period, two years, three years, with the tax relief and all these things? . That is why this motion for a resolution, because the employees of such privatisations should also benefit accordingly. That's what we want, that's our concern, we owe the voters too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14966	Mr Dr Höchtl has been mentioned on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e14988	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this whole package of proposals that we are discussing and deciding on, one of the points that Mr Firlinger has made as my immediate predecessor is the question of what basic rules should be in place for privatisation and what attention should be given to. I would also like to repeat in plenary what we have discussed in the Committee on Budgets. One of the three aspects I would undoubtedly have very much supported by our group, namely that in the various privatisation possibilities we always provide for the opportunity of employee participation, because this employee participation is the opportunity to maintain a much wider distribution of property and thus workers have the opportunity to acquire property as well. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] This also gives a much stronger identification with the company in which the individual employee is employed. – That means an absolute yes to this intention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to those of the various legislative proposals, which have certainly also taken the widest discussion in the Committee, namely the Civil Service Law Novelle. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this has led to a debate on the procedure in the Committee on Budgets. There has been no political group that has not stressed that we must together try to go a different way. For not only the comprehensive form of presentation and the last moment's requests for amendment make it difficult for the individual Member to deal intensively with matter, but, of course, the ongoing change, the continuing quoting of x law-making bodies. There is in the amendments a passage of 15 or 20 lines in which there is nothing other than references to other laws. This is difficult to understand even for good lawyers – there are certainly also in Parliament. Mr Finanzminister! That means that this is not only the Ministry of Finance, but also the coordination of all the wishes of all the institutions. In this regard, we would ask for an early and easy-to-understand procedure to be chosen in the interests of the responsibility of each individual Member, that we should be able to carry out this responsibility in a timely and comprehensive manner the next time – in the event of a certain return of such a novel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address very few aspects that seem important to me. We often have such civil service law novels, because, of course, 180 000 people who are subdivided into a number of divisions are constantly experiencing new problems. I agree with what some previous speakers have said that it is important for us to have a single Austrian-wide assessment centre, a standard for retirement, through centralization at the Federal Pension Office. I think this gives us a uniformity that we want. Secondly, I see it as positive that we are taking another step towards permeability in the public service, because in this BDG there is also the chance that a greater consideration of foreign experiences – when ordering in highest leadership positions – will be integrated. That is one aspect that we cannot stress enough. I would also like to stress the regulation of the pupils' advisory work of teachers at polytechnic schools as well as a relief for the administration that we have made possible the flat-rate fee for travel fees in the executive foreign service of the Gendarmerie. In conclusion, I believe that this is a very important aspect: In Austria, we have experienced an administration – and we have experienced this in recent years – that has been a model for many former communist states, which are now trying to move into the market economy system. The better the public administration of a state works, the more competitive the economy is. I think we have achieved a lot in recent years. We would like to thank the many public servants who, in their respective fields, are trying to adapt efficiently to these requirements, to do their work in a customer-friendly and partnership-friendly manner! We agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15070	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15091	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki stupid! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! I agree to give a brief opinion on Agenda item 5. I think it is a very special matter if we conclude with our neighbours Slovenia this important agreement to avoid double taxation. That's a pretty good start. We see the creation of a contractual link with our neighbouring countries, particularly as a call for these countries to implement the reforms in the field of justice and law. This is particularly true of Slovenia. As we know, Slovenia is a very good partner, an excellent partner, as far as economic data is concerned. We know that we are investing almost 5 billion Schilling in Slovenia. We have an Austrian export to Slovenia of almost 13 billion schilling. We import goods from Slovenia worth 6.8 billion schilling. The Slovenians already buy more from us than the Swiss. They are, as it were, in the first place with an average of 6,500 s per head and nose. That's remarkable data. Mr Finanzminister! We see the importance of rapidly addressing the enlargement of the East. If we create good partners, if we help them make money too, they are also able to shop with us. It is very important that we, as it were, take intensive action in these countries in the framework of this cooperation, making joint investments, cross-border and, above all, economic investments. That is why, Mr Minister, it is very important - I spoke to the Minister of the Interior yesterday - that we remove the critically slowing down of the border. Goods and people and ideas should quickly and quickly cross borders, they should fertilize each other, so to speak, to make the border regions flowering regions. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] The border regions, which are now on the verge, are to be strengthened, in fact and economically, through this opening, and thus to come into the middle. That's something very central. Minister! In this context, I do not understand the attitude of your colleague, Federal Chancellor's climate, who says: Easter enlargement, yes, but. – There is no but! That's just... Let's go into the big project! We can see from the example of Slovenia that if we cooperate reasonably, if we allow companies to go there, so some Austrian companies, including small companies, can get jobs in Austria because they work together with their neighbours. This is how to create jobs, not by fear, as the ÖGB repeatedly tries, by saying that terrible things from the East are coming to us, but precisely through this very clear cooperation. We also need to make our neighbours deserve to be able to buy them, and we must be prepared to give them a reward. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We do not need to be afraid of enlargement of the East or the South East, because economic cooperation will make these countries flourish and stabilize. That is why you are also allowing me to express some criticisms towards Slovenia. I do not think it makes sense to maintain the restrictive acquisition of property. I am not afraid – I say this as a Slovenian – about the so-called Slovenian soil. I believe that it is important that healthy, good farms arise on this ground, that jobs and therefore good habitats and a good livelihood be created. Nor do I realize that the Slovenian companies have to pay such high interest rates that they have to avoid abroad, take up money abroad, but at the same time have to deposit huge deposits at the Slovenian National Bank. This corresponds to the old management mentality that we had here in Austria too, decades ago. The economy needs good conditions, it needs clear framework conditions, but it does not need regulation – even in Slovenia, so that we can understand ourselves properly! The task of legal adjustment in these neighbouring countries is also very important, in particular in Slovenia, more effective justice, more effective administration. We will help to achieve this by being ready – openly, without being obedient – to cooperate with our neighbors. In this sense, Mr Minister, I would like to mention a small peripheral problem which is not really such a big problem. If we say that the spirit is to woe wherever he wants and where he can, I must also say that this also applies to training. We have a number of young people from Slovenia who are willing to participate in Austrian schools. I believe that this is a very good approach, which is a very reasonable approach, that we offer education and thus already make initial acquaintances for later human and economic cooperation. I know I am already being admonished by our folderist – that is very strict with us – that I should take a shorter hold. I'll do that in this sense. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] That was the first false chatter today, colleague Khol. The others were still tolerable, but that was the first wrong thing. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You've always been too long for the last time! I remember!]] I'm glad you remember my speeches. I also hope that you have dealt, above all, with the content of my speeches and will therefore help me to deal with some very important problems also in the neighbourhood policy. The ÖVP has the Foreign Minister. Let's do something reasonable together!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15175	Mr Karl Gerfried Müller has now come to speak. 5 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15200	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister of Finance! I would like to congratulate our Minister of Finance on the truly excellent government certificate that we were able to read in the "NEWS" yesterday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the request of Mr Firlinger and the Magistrate cast out by the FPÖ for the machinations of Rosenstingl. I would like to make it clear to Schreiner concerning the privatisation of public enterprises on employee shares that certain risks and risks are inherent for workers. By buying shares, employees participate directly in the company in which they work. Mr Hochtl has expressed his full support for this, but I would remind you that there may be a distinction within the company between those employees who have the necessary capital and who can afford the shares and those who do not have the opportunity to do so. How this affects the working environment among employees and what consequences can be expected from the management level can also be seen. I am in favour of loyalty to a company, but I am clearly opposed to being dependent on company participation. In the worst case, in addition to the loss of a job, this employee participation can also lead to painful financial losses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! In principle, I am of the opinion that the complete privatisation of state enterprises is not an absolute panacea. In the meantime, I believe we have reached the ceilings in the privatisations. There are state-owned enterprises that are quite successful and have also grown in competition. With any further privatisation, however, the state also loses governance mechanisms that can have a lasting impact – I hope – on the labour market situation. Why should the state not itself lead profit-making companies? In my opinion, state-owned enterprises are useful and important in some areas, and it will be our task to look very closely at the impact and consequences of further privatisation, taking into account the employees. This freedom of movement is by no means a recipe for privatisation, because it is clear that the interests of the employees are not in the foreground here. Profit maximisation at the expense of workers to satisfy shareholders' wallets, and efficiency increases through labour exploitation cannot be the goal of a healthy economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: Class fight! That's class fight!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not happy that at the end of the year those managers who rationalise the most workers will be elected the entrepreneur of the year. In my opinion, those entrepreneurs and managers should be stressed, which, in addition to the undoubtedly important commercial aspects, should also focus on social and labour market components. In view of these possible risks and the framework set out in the Privatisation Act, the Socialist Group rejects this request for freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15255	Mrs Rieß is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15277	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have a comprehensive government template, the 1. Service law Novelle 1998, before which a total of 20 laws are amended. Before the financial committee meeting, the members of the Committee of Governments quickly received a guide through this legislative matter and through this legislative jungle. We, the members of the committee of the opposition parties, were not invited to this information event. – So much for fairness and equal opportunities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it is noteworthy and commendable to mention that, for the first time, a follow-up bill has been drawn up for this government template, as provided for in § 14 of the Federal Budget Act. It is critical, on the other hand, that this new service law novelle will not be the last of this year, for for autumn State Secretary Ruttenstorfer has already the 2nd. Service law Novelle announced. Ladies and gentlemen! If one considers the current civil service law, it must be noted that it is casuistic that it is anti-performance and that it is, in turn, a flicking work of the law on occasions. Our demand for a uniform labour law has not been taken into account. It remains upright, therefore, only because many public-law firms are now being distributed and privatized into the so-called private sector, so that the phenomenon of the official distributed staff is now found in private-law establishments. Ladies and gentlemen! This Government template also provides for the creation of a central medical service at the Federal Pensions Office. You get away from the freelance experts and create an overexploritor instead. Once again, one chooses the centralist way to instill in the applicants the shocks and even greater obstacles. The explanations themselves state that this measure slows down retirement by one year, bringing about 45.5 million schilling per year to savings. And now to § 24a of the salary law. Basic remunerations are now indexed, they receive a value adjustment. There is a recalculation of the natural apartments and the service apartments when officials retire. Once again and again, after the death of the official, a re-evaluation is made if the survivors want to continue to use the apartment. ==References== 2 it is then agreed that the basic remuneration should only rise to 35 percent of the household income in order to avoid hardships. Minister! High house! Rent increases of up to 35 percent of household income, i.e. rental increases of 100, 200, 300 percent and more are wanted, desired and accepted by this Federal Government! This is a socialist attack, Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They get into the pockets of the official pensioners, once again through the back door. Measures of this kind... [[Abg. Fuchs: Through the front door!]] No, through the back door. We call that, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We don't stand for this, so we're going to be this one. Service law-Novelle 1998 did not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15332	The next speaker is Mr Auer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15354	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some speakers have rightly pointed out the unreasonable procedure regarding the submission or provision of the amendment. If my colleague thought stupidly that it would be unreasonable to be able to deal with this draft only two days before, I would point out that I would have been happy if I had had him two days before. I received it at 9 a.m., one hour before the start of the Financial Committee. I would therefore ask, in fact, that such things do not happen anymore. I also expressly say that I do not have much joy with this civil service law. It is an amendment to 16 pages with at least 56 measures in the law itself, and on some points these are – I add – quite privileged measures. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Don't agree!]] I am not a person of any kind, but I hope and wish, Minister of State, that these measures, which I grant to every individual official, which is clearly stated, will then also be recovered from other professional groups in order to ensure fair compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: Don't agree!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point which is quite positive is that the exemption of municipal mandates is being re-regulated. But it would also be important to consider, Mr Federal Minister, that solutions for exemptions for medium-sized municipalities should also be found, particularly in the case of solutions, if municipal mandates are not federal servants. For it should not be so that the federal staff are almost all and employees in private professions hardly anything possible. These difficulties should, I believe, be more justly divided.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15411	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15433	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A very brief point which has already been raised in the debate. Thus, in a few provisions, a strange regulation is introduced here, namely in the Federal Ministry of State Defense. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know any other ministry in which this is the case with the head of the Federal Minister's office. Chief of Cabinet – this is actually a semi-political function. This is about someone who has the confidence, including the full political confidence, of the Minister who organizes the Minister's office and tries to give him the appropriate information, sometimes not to give him. In the field of the Ministry of Defence, this semi-political function in the organization hierarchy is now being equated with the other section heads and such a kind of head of staff – it is also said: Chief of Staff in the Ministry of Defence – established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I do not fully understand why you agree to this regulation. This chief of staff has extensive powers. He has a right of intervention throughout the organization structure. He is, in fact, referred to as the General Force Inspector – as head of the section outside the other sections. There is a committee that is supposed to be preparing. The exact opposite is the case. For, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, a committee can be used as an interpretation aid for a law, a committee report or a decision, but never is it directed against the law. The law expressly sets out the competences of a Chief of Staff, and these are totally contrary to the restriction in this Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot imagine that it is in the interest of this House that, in order to avoid all possible bodies, and above all in order to avoid an offensive discussion of such a massive change in the army, we should actually introduce the function of a chief of general staff and organize it in secret. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the Social Democrats, we have called for a separate vote on this point to give you the opportunity – and I hope you will benefit them – to refer this point back and then discuss properly whether the Federal Government should have a Chief General: Yes or no? And if so, then certainly not in a political function in the cabinet of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15470	Mr Fink has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15492	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Federal Minister! I have to go to my friend Jacob The following words: The reason for the proposed change in this novel is not the improvement of public service staff, but rather an administrative simplification and the elimination of problems in the execution. This is the meaning of this 1. Service law Novelle 1998. It will, on the one hand, make the implementation of these rules more efficient, economic and cost-effective and, on the other, take social developments into account. Today, everyone has complained about what a German chancellor of this Republic has already said: "It's all very complicated." – This seems to be the case in the study of this government template. However, these problems are not only given in the field of public service, but if I look at the ASVG, I find about the same thing there, and if I look at the collective agreements in the private sector, then I see, there too, it is about the same. I do not believe that it would be wrong to call for uniform provisions for all to do so, either, or I do not necessarily agree with what my previous speakers have said. To shave everyone over a comb has never led to a satisfactory solution. I also liked the moderate of the Freedom Party today. It's also heard from her: It's all so complicated! – Yes, if everything is really so complicated, let’s leave it to the officials. They know each other! The officials of the Republic of Austria are not that bad. At least they know each other in this complicated matter. Let's do that! I don't have a problem with that at all. We don't have to do this to politicians. Let's leave this to the officials! What the Freedom Party and especially the Party Minister Jörg Haider said to the officials, I would like to remind you very briefly only in three phases. He said: Only a third of the officials work. We have a state that one third of the officials do not work at all, one third shifts service by regulation and one third does work for the others. If I looked at the Böhacker today... [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You're right, don't you think? It's all right! That's your attitude! Now everyone is sorry, now everyone is thanking the officials, but in the end everyone who is the Freedom Party is insulting the officials. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On 18.6.1997, Partyobmann Haider said there were too many officials. Quote: "FP chief Haider outlined his plans for officials at a press conference. Due to the natural departure and privatisation of certain areas of the public sector, 40 percent of all officials can be saved." – Well, that would be very easy. If I do this everywhere, if I save everywhere, officials away, employees away, or workers away, then it's not art. The civil servants, he says, are not accountable. That's what it says: "The FPÖ chief Haider called them unaccountable. There is no solidarity among officials. Trade unionists would be there only for old officials." If I remember what Mr Lammer said yesterday, I would like to say: Think for yourselves of the old servants of your party, so that it will get better with you, and do not think of the officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say one more thing: They have sent the Tax Administration Organisation Act for review. The AVOG is currently under review, as has been said. District cities, municipalities and financial administration staff – because this directly concerns my colleagues – are, of course, storming. The objective of this AVOG amendment is to increase the efficiency and maintenance of the citizens' proximity. Federal Minister! I don't think you believe that! That it serves to maintain the proximity of citizens, for example, if the financial office in Bad Radkersburg – which is a financial office in my area – is closed and people have to be sent to Feldbach, where they have 40 kilometres further, that can't be true! But that's in your design. Mr Finanzminister! I would ask you, Mr President, if he really does come in this way, but if he changes it in the form that it actually comes closer to citizens in this area of financial management. I'm a financial officer myself. I know what service in the financial office means by how we as officials are doing the work in a financial office. It is constructive when we hear from the ministry that it was a good job to have services in these areas, but to abolish the proximity of citizens by changing and closing the financial offices – it may not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15577	Mrs Mag. Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on item 5 of the double taxation agreement between Austria and Slovenia. My colleague Karl Smolle has already stressed the importance of this agreement, and I can only confirm, on the basis of my professional experience, the importance of this agreement, especially in the area of Styrian economic cooperation with Slovenia. [[Unrest in the hall.]] But since you have very good relations with Slovenia, I would ask you to continue with the shortcomings there in relation to tax law, trade law and so on... [[Abg. Smolle: Mr President! To the Rules of Procedure! The honourable Member's speech is so interesting that I am sorry that I do not hear it, and I ask you to take it easy.]] Mr Smolle can then read it in the Stenographical Protocol, but I think Karl, you fear a call for work. There is still a lot of information to be done in Slovenia so that this double taxation agreement will ultimately make sense. I would like to come briefly to item 7 of the agenda, namely the desire of my fellow Member for the classification of postgraduate graduates. So I don't understand this request at all. I therefore do not understand why Professor Van der Bellen agrees to this request. I believe that there is a general view that we want to get away from civil service law in connection with the right to pay. There is, I believe, a consistent opinion on the fact that the remuneration system itself is a performance-reducing system, namely in relation to biennial jumps, and that we want to get away from the principle of Pragmatization and only to leave certain professional groups in Pragmatization. That is why I am completely incomprehensible in my desire to push university graduates back into this corset. I believe that we have come to terms with the employee law. Unfortunately, I have to end with my speech now because my clubman has already urged me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15645	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We do not have the rapporteur's final word, so we are entering the voting procedure. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1321 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a member of Parliament. A request for a separate vote was put forward by the Scheibner. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure states that the constitutionally planned presence quorum is given. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule I.Z. 71a, as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask those Members of the House who wish to stand for it to give a similar sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is largely accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the draft law at third reading an appropriate sign. – This too is the majority. I expressly note once again the presence of the required two-thirds majority. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the creation of a modern performance-oriented contract service. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, namely agreements with Ukraine to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and the assets and the Protocol, in 1081 of the Supplements. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is done by the majority. Adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, namely, agreements with the Republic of Slovenia to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth, in 942 of the supplements. If you want to grant the permit, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1324 of the supplements. In case of your notice, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is mostly the case. Accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1325 of the supplements. If you want to take note of him, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its report 1326 of the supplements. If you want to agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (1277 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act (1292 of Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (1278 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Education Act (1293 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (1279 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the compulsory school law 1985 (1294 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (1280 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Basic Law on compulsory school maintenance (1295 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 592/A by Mrs Maria Schaffenrathund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the School Education Act (1298 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15835	I now call on points 9 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Since there has been no oral reporting, we are immediately entering the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15865	Mr President. Minister of Education! [[To Federal Minister Edlinger, sitting on the government bank]] Are you there in representation? [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Yes!]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already remarkable that the education speaker of the Social Democrats, Dieter Antoni, in a press service of the 25th century. In June 1998, most of this school reform package had to be tied so quickly and in the short term, because there is a national action plan for employment and certain conditions have to be created for it. These conditions, which have been created here, primarily serve to cover the unsustainable apprenticeship promise of German Chancellor Klima, to provide a teaching place for each job seeker. I refer only to the fact that it is now possible for young people up to the age of 18 to complete school, which means so much that young people who have failed in nine years can also remain in school for a tenth and eleventh years in order to finish this school. In other words, here a good part of the students who have not completed the school degree in the intended time is "parked" in the school, and thus this part no longer pushes on the apprenticeship market and does not fall to the public in the form of the burden, as the Federal Chancellor does not want to see. A second example – and I think that is even more dramatic – is the abolition of the prohibition of reptiles. There has been a provision on the basis of which young people who have had more than three not enough in the final certificate have not had the opportunity to repeat the class. Now this repetitious ban has been lifted. That means you can also repeat the class with four, five, six and more. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: What type of school?]] Mr Stippel! I can tell you the following: Let's get the HTL Pinkafeld. In the HTL in Pinkafeld – which was confirmed to me by the teachers teaching there – it is true that in the coming school year, there will not be enough space for all those who have acquired the qualification for this school. They have a positive witness, would like to attend the first class of this school, but have to be rejected for lack of space. And the lack of space is due to the fact that the repetitious ban was lifted, because those who had not had five, six and seven had not had enough, took away the place that had acquired the right to attend this class. If you think this is a good solution, I can't help you with the best will! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This regulation serves only to "hide" young people who cannot take up the labour market because you have not made the policy of "hiding" in school. Now I come to another point which is very interesting and which needs to be discussed here, namely the question of how to counterise integration policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the SPÖ! They were so proud of the integration of children with special educational needs. We all agreed to this form of integration, but at the time already asked the question: What happens, then, when these students coped with the lower level, do they also get to the upper level? We didn't get an answer back then. The answer has now been given, in the form of an extension of the two-year schooling phase to three years and the possibility of attending a ninth school year, a year of vocational training, for children with special educational needs. That is, children who have so far been in an integration class, where one has always said that one cannot take them out of the association, it is important that they are inside this group – that is all to understand and that is our view – are now concentrated at once in this ninth school year. Integration for eight years and in the ninth school year at once the concentration! This is the end of this red-black government's excellent integration policy. I am curious about what the social-democratic education politicians have to say about this eight years of integration, in the ninth school year concentration, one could also say: [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Just the best! Check this out and sit down!]] Segregation. Ladies and gentlemen of federal policy! Red-black education policy is at once a concentration policy in integration policy. But in order not to get too often embarrassed, Mr Antoni, you have planned the flexible school entry phase. In other words, you will be careful to give the children with special educational needs three years for the first two years of schooling, so that you do not get too often to concentrate children with special educational needs in this ninth school year, which you have called a vocational preparation year. This is the smart solution of this federal government in a school package, whose top command was to hide the future unemployed young people in this school system for as long as possible. We liberals will not be able to agree with this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15941	Mr Dr Höchtl was also mentioned on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e15971	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in this ‘98 school package we have not only the content that has been given to an improvement – and these are numerous – to discuss, but we also have a little to discuss the style in which various contributions have been made to the public in the last few weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have sometimes had the impression – so that I mean different people in this House, which will certainly take the floor even today – that, if the contentious argument goes out, one simply goes to personal disqualification, to personal attack, to diffamation. And this is not the style that we need in education policy! I would like to say that very clearly today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Sometimes I have the tone – and I mention it because it is only after me – that the colleague Schaffenrath irritated me because she needed expressions I believed were not in the repertoire of the Liberal Forum. Of course, we sometimes get critical voices to hear, not content, but personal, even on the part of the liberals, but that here there is, as it were, a sort of coalition pact between the Liberal Forum and the Freeman, as far as the way in which one acts is concerned, that was new. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: An example, Mr. Cot!]] Mrs Schaffenrath! I would just ask you – and that is quite specific Her attacks against the Federal Minister –: Let's not do one thing: Let us not leave the debate on the subject! [[Abg. May. Peter: Don't be so pathetic!]] We may have different views of the nature of the matter on many points. But do not use such names as you used them in the last few weeks of the Federal Minister's office. Return to a serious dispute! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this serious debate, we have achieved a lot – and at the end of the day in this package – of what we have achieved. It was not always the case that Members of the Socialist Group and my group were of the opinion that they should be present at the outset. But the quality, particularly in the field of education, should also be shown by the fact that we are looking for the best solution. This is an essential sign in a democracy. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The two-thirds majority required by school laws – and you also wanted to abolish them, as you want to eliminate so much, from crucifix in the classes to grades – has a very central importance in education policy, namely that one does not deal with things so easily in the educational field and says: [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Don't be so polemic!]] Now we do it like that, and at the next moment we do it differently again! We know very well that this is a very sensitive area, which needs improvements each step by step, changes. But we said: We make changes to improve, and not changes to reform! This is a principle of our education policy guidelines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me mention just a few points that we have included in this package. First: We have already taken some steps in recent years, since knowledge of foreign languages will be crucial for the competitiveness of our youth. With this innovation we continue this guideline and now decide on a measure which will provide for a foreign language - probably in most cases English - to be taught from the beginning of the school year. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a very important measure, because only with really good foreign language skills do we have the chance that Austria's youth will be competitive in the third millennium. We want to achieve this goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly. We have always known that every talent and ability of a young person – including the abilities of the highest talented – must be recognized and promoted in good time. That is why, in this novel, we are anchoring the provision that there should be the possibility for particularly talented students to skip a class in the elementary school. I believe that we must give particularly talented young people an additional opportunity to develop. Like those who need additional support, we also need to give the particularly talented the opportunity to go through the education career in a shorter period of time. This is an educational policy that focuses on the individual student, who sees people in each student and promotes him in all his development possibilities. We are clearly committed to this policy. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Antoni.]] Now an answer to Mr Schweitzer, as regards the possibility of primary and primary education until the 18th century. Rehabilitation of life. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We know that many young people who do not have a high school degree have serious problems in the labour market. That is why we say: Let's give young people a second chance! The young man deserves it! That is why we are also saying a yes to the measure which makes it possible to re-acquire the primary school at the age of 18. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] In addition, we have created more opportunities to promote in the early schooling phase. There will also be the possibility to take more flexible action in the classification of performance groups in the primary schools. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have expressed throughout the package we are discussing and deciding today: We confess to the reliability of our school! We confess to clarity! We believe that stability in education policy must be maintained and that we must ensure the best conditions for young people's ability to develop in the coming decades through our education policy. We tied this package together with our coalition partner. The Federal Minister has given substantial impetus to the various proposals. I believe that this will make a further positive decision on education policy today. We say a clear yes to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16086	Mr Schaffenrath. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16107	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl! I am also annoyed by your tone, because it sounds so pathetic and because today you are so sensitive to a situation that may be new in Austria, namely to the situation that education becomes a political issue and that parties do not take all that is brought to us by your side, by this side and also by the Minister of Education. [[the speaker looks towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: There is no problem!]] Deputies! They didn't mention any concrete example where I left myself in the sound. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I didn't want to use the terms you use!]] You can use any term. I'll tell you what kind of term I'm using. He's called "reform populist", and I'm standing for that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You used another one!]] The term you mean I didn't use that term used "NEWS". With your criticism, turn to the medium and not to me as a person. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: In the press release you used a different term!]] Look at this again. Mr Hochtl, you will see that this concept does not come from me. That's not my style! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] I would like to say something to you, Mr Höchtl: If you are defending the two-thirds majority here today and if you are speaking here today about the stability of the Austrian education system, you should not forget that stability also means rigidity. And that's what we have: We are only progressing with very small steps! [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: No, that's not true!]] Mr Höchtl! I agree with every title you mentioned here today. But the problems are in detail, and they are because there are no appropriate conditions and no possibilities for serious implementation. As much as you here praise the work of the Coalition, so little will be able to conceal that there is an ideological exchange trade. I'll tell you again! A typical example of this is the point-note assessment in the school entrance phase – contrary to all the recommendations in the overall assessment process, contrary to all the experiences that have been made in the course of the school tests! That's where you've been! In my opinion, the fact that you, in exchange for the SPÖ, which has really been drawn over the table – I say quite clearly – has granted the extension of the school tests in the field of alternative performance assessments to 25 percent does not support a good quality of our education policy. I can give you a lot of examples where you are so to speak in the exchange procedure. To defend their own ideologies and, unfortunately, to start within these borders. I am particularly sorry for the education system. However, in one point, Mr Höchtl, I am right to say: I, too, consider it a matter of course – and this is a point which I clearly underline, and I am quite different from that of Mr Schweitzer – that people should have the opportunity to finish school. I only hope that this will create the necessary framework conditions. It should be a matter of course that all people have the opportunity to complete a school, because with the same course we finance entire university studies on the other hand. In my opinion, the weak especially need the best possible conditions. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] As far as the removal of the prohibition on reptiles is concerned, I am right to say that it seems cynical that, in order to be able to meet the NAP's needs better or to improve unemployment statistics, measures have been put in place in the school field. I really have a very personal problem with the prohibition of reptiles. I say it again: I am in favour of giving young people a second chance, but I think it is a gross injustice that school leavers and school leavers of the 1997 school year did not have this opportunity. This second opportunity is granted for three years. What about those young people who also need a second chance but no longer receive it? Mrs. Minister! It is not only that this creates legal uncertainty among young people, I think it is even immense that in educational careers, in opportunities for young people to live, I would almost say, arbitrary intervention and make the whole thing on such an uncertain basis as the point assessment. Mrs. Minister! You really can't ask for my consent. In this context, I should also like to say the following: You, Mrs Minister, said within the Committee, supported by Mrs Brinek, that it would bring injustices to laws or legislative changes. I would like to say to you: This is not about 100 S more or less about family aid, but about life opportunities, about opportunities for vocational training and for the career of young people. In view of this, quite honestly, I cannot say anything but that I really feel it is cynical, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Ölllinger.]] Mr Höchtl! As far as the school entry phase is concerned, they have addressed several things. We are in favour of this in principle. They have also said that there will be a foreign language teaching for students from the first class of folk school. There is also support from our website. You also said that you want a new order when changing within the school levels. We also support this because it is a small step towards getting away from the illusion that age-shomogenic groups would be better taught. They also mentioned that there should be facilitation of entry and changeover into service groups. We only give our consent to this because there has already been a further approach to the resolution of performance groups, which I have already outlined in the public debate and also within the Committee. However, a point in the field of school entry is very important to me, and I therefore take every opportunity to bring forward our amendments in this regard. I am no longer referring to the fact that the SPÖ has agreed that, at this flexible stage of school entry, there is a numbering assessment which, unfortunately, makes it impossible in implementation and in the objective, Mr Höchtl – I know that I have one other than you – and that this is actually the starting point. I do not even address the problem of the numbering note now, because I do not have so much time, but what really makes me very concerned – and I am right about it to Mr Schweitzer – is the following: In fact, this school entry phase is used once again to discriminate against people with disabilities in our society, because the wording in the laws allows it and opens the possibility of people with disabilities staying at this basic level for three years. This means that they are in the 8th century. Class 4 Class primary school or wherever they are – they have fulfilled their schooling requirements. This really decomposes you of the need to transfer the school attempt "Integration at the Polytechnic School" to the general school system, it also dispels the need to set up school trials in the vocational education system for disabled children. So they have no more chance of exploiting their full potential to their abilities to the full. Mr Schweitzer has already mentioned this. In addition, these young people with disabilities have to end an eight-year or nine-year-old successful integration abruptly, because they are regrouped at special schools in their own classes for the purpose of vocational preparation. I would like to say the following: In any case, a criterion of integration is learning in as stable reference groups as possible. In any case, we cannot accept your proposal, because it is for us, I would like to say that the integration package. In addition, you will have the parents of the affected children – once again! – give no right to co-decision, and that is an essential criterion. That is a human rights question for us! I shall now put forward three amendments. First amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want to prevent children with special educational needs from automatically completing a three-year schooling period at basic level 1. Second amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Third amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I see that I have far exceeded my time, but I would like to mention one point here, since I think it is important. The Committee has once again rejected our request to create the possibility of getting up with two. Not enough at the next level of school, but this was not really surprising. Madam Minister, as already in the Committee on Budgets, I would like to express once again the views you have expressed on this subject, and I would ask you to reply to me today whether you have changed your mind or not. You may have caused you to change your mind, and how you are now dealing with this problem. You said the following – I quote – in autumn 1996: "I'm basically concerned that you don't lose a whole year due to a time-limited failure – there are sometimes problems such as the divorce of your parents, or you're going to lose a mess, or due to puberty. What sense does it make, if you have fourteen subjects, in thirteen subjects it makes a positive cut, in one subject negative and all other subjects also have to make again? That was the starting point of the discussion. In addition, many in Austria have complained that the teachers' conference does not bring what they think, and that often according to the number of school students, after the number of partitions next year will be decided." – End of the quote. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ten years ago, the discussion ended on the subject of "rising with not enough" because all human scientists were actually of the opinion that rehearsing is socially unbearable, pedagogical and expensive. They themselves – namely, those responsible in the government parties – actually also show how absurd the replaying is due to a numerical assessment. It is stated in the law that not the last state of performance is decisive for a rise. There is the passus that on the second visit, a not enough to hinder the rise if the first visit of the students in the subject concerned was positive. There you have to ask yourself: Can he find English now or not if he had not had enough at the end of the school? I would like to provide you with a second proof that you are actually talking about this non-incentive-lettuce. It is indeed true that any Austrian student or student who visits the school abroad for a certain period of time may, at least, go up to the next higher class, regardless of what assessment he or she has. In any event, I am in favour of ensuring that opportunities are still preferred for the defence of opportunities, and I hope that in not too long time the opinion in this House will also change in favour of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16362	The three amendments just read have been properly tabled and are supported accordingly and are therefore under negotiation. The next item is the report by Mr Antoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16386	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I cannot ignore saying a few words to Mr Schweitzer, of whom I know he is a pedagogue and a teacher. I do not quite understand that you do not accept that young people at the age of 14, 15, 16, 17 often have personal problems, problems in the family, in the circle of friends, possibly in crises, and the school of course can and must also be a factor to help them out. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's what happens!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I accept that!]] I therefore believe that, given the difficult situation in the apprenticeship market, it makes sense to first suspend the prohibition on repetitious secondary and higher schools for a period of three years. I would like to explain the following: We do not have a ban on this type of AHS. That seems to be where it works. And if it is now introduced for the vocational schools, then it must not be seen as a crime and so be negative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Even if others don't get a place?]] We have, Mr Schweitzer – the Federal Minister will certainly go even further on this – got more posts, more plan posts, so that what you fear, namely that others will not get a place for that reason, will not occur. And everything will certainly be done on the part of the Ministry so that everyone who is capable can really get a training place. I agree with Mr Höchtl in the area of the possibility of resurgence of the primary school – you are right that it must have consequences if someone has not done the school – but let us note that some 4,000 students leave the compulsory school without a positive conclusion. They are currently learning on the labour market that they hardly have the chance of integration. Yes, it's a negative thing to say to these young people: You can come back to school again, we will make a very special effort to you!, and give them the opportunity to finish positively for free? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a wonderful explanation for the beauty of statistics!]] Yes, that's your attitude, Karl! Ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: He doesn't understand better!]] I would like to point out, before I refer to a number of points in the legislative package that we want to decide, that today in this House the importance of education, the importance of life-long learning is not only spoken at this time, but it has also been given particular importance, particularly by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance. They have once again said in their statements how important it is to ensure continuing training, the importance of giving education a very special priority, because our society in the labour market is currently undergoing enormous changes and training is probably the only real opportunity to move forward. On the most important points, I think: First of all, flexibilization, child orientation of school start-ups. I believe that the flexibility of the school start-up phase, i.e. the whole basic level 1, in which school starters can remain one, two or three years in the future, will, on the one hand, enable more consistent attention to be paid to the different learning skills and learning requirements, and on the other hand, the individual learning rate of the individual child can be taken into account accordingly. In my opinion, therefore, there will no longer be any withdrawal from school, there will be much less dissuasive, negative assessments because there is time, there will be less negative redeployment measures. And in the case – already mentioned – a special talent and a significantly above-average performance, school beginners can already leave basic level 1 after a year towards third level, towards third grade of folk school, so skip for a year. I therefore believe that the more flexible design of the school start-up phase now allows for a real approach to the individual start-ups of the school. I would therefore like to stress these advantages so clearly because we know from statistics and evaluations that at present almost 20 percent of Austrian school beginners have negative experiences at the start-up stage. I do not want to talk about a misstart, but I believe that such measures as we are introducing them today are all capable of avoiding any misstarts in the future. Of course, we Socialists – and I say this quite openly here – would also have expected us to be able to implement alternative forms of assessment in the field of flexible school entry. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Stippel.]] We believe that this too could be a contribution to motivating performance and learning, building up and ensuring courage, joy and confidence in one's own performance. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is not to be qualified as one or the other has been pulled over the table or one or another has fallen. That was a compromise to be worked out. And it has just come to the conclusion that we are at first staying in the evaluation of the figures, but that an additional description of performance is possible. 25 percent of schools across the country can carry out school tests on alternative assessments, and I guarantee – I think I can say that – that there will be no request for an alternative assessment to be submitted to the Ministry of Education on the basis of too high a percentage. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] I mean, this is also a step that is very welcome. With the introduction of the binding foreign language in the first and second levels, I believe that we are also taking a very courageous step. We welcome this from the Social Democrats! A living foreign language is taught in an integral way in a playful and communicative form, whether in a daily morning circle, whether in the field of music education, whether in the field of visual education, the education of works. It offers countless opportunities to bring a second language into the classroom, without using vocabulary, without fear of grammar, schoolwork or test, but with confidence in experiencing the feeling of a second language and learning a second language in playful form. No question that teacher training and training are particularly required, no question that the willingness and commitment of school supervision will also be particularly required. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for thanking our coalition partner, for the patience and confidence of the officials of your home. This matter of law was laborious, but it was a very fair and open exchange of views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16503	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16524	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost a pity that I have not been able to take part in this Committee on Education, because there are a lot of things in the air, but I fear that the Committee on Education would not have exempt me from the question of what the arguments are, Mr Höchtl is still moving, except that he is afraid of being afraid of change, of fear of letting go of something and of having to say goodbye to something that has been put on the throne for decades, as it were, inescapable security. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Please! I'm scared? I'm not the oilling!]] What are the arguments, Mr Höchtl, that are still impelling you to raise the numbering note in heaven? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: The greatest clarity in expression!]] I mean, it's not about the numbering note alone – not just with you – it's about a monument and your fear. But it is really not about the numbering note alone, because of course one could argue about whether one can rise, for example, even if one is negatively assessed in the numbering note. And I see no reason at all why that should not be possible. For one thing, Mr Höchtl, you cannot tell me: that you are so good at everything that you are able to have the need to demand the commitment from the pupils who are unable to have a partial or a weakness in a very specific area, for example in the language field, and yet continue to be able to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Look how you get out!]] Because your holding on to the number note as a criterion for rise means nothing but that you still assume that you are from that universally educated, humanistically oriented person who has his world together, which is good in all sub-areas, and that nothing is missing that knows at least one bit everywhere and that dominates everything. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You are argumentable!]] From this human image, you assume – and I believe, not only in the field of general education schools, but in particular in the field of vocational education schools. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Man is always judged, all his life!]] This human image and this access to the number note should make you flatter. It is of course true that neither you nor I nor colleague Schaffenrath or colleague Antoni can take advantage of us – and I do not say that at all and you probably not – that we are good in everything. And that as a condition for the... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But you know that 70 to 80 percent of the people in Austria are for this!]] I'm for performance assessment! However, performance assessment does not have to be made by reference to the point. You don't understand something: Performance assessment does not have to be carried out by reference notes alone, it can also be carried out by other instruments. And above all, you can't explain to me: Why a performance assessment in one or two subjects should result in the school year being repeated, including in those subjects where the student has done a good job. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Well, because he didn't deliver the performance!]] Mr Höchtl, I can repeat what I have said more often: [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I understand you!]] There are very few European countries in which this form of performance assessment and refusal of rise are still practised at all. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: When someone else jumps into a well, I don't jump!]] This is your recipe: not to jump into the well. But at times it might be quite refreshing if you were to bring yourself some fresh water, Mr Höchtl, if you could treat this refreshment and not be afraid of having to jump somewhere into a well or into the water, just stay where you have always stood, perhaps looking at the water level. It would be desirable, Mr Höchtl, for you to orient yourself. It is not too much to demand that you look around what others do, as the experience in other schools is. To this end, Mr Schaffenrath has already done so in detail in her contribution to the debate: The peculiar thing about this kind of pedagogy and this refusal to discuss pedagogy is, however,... [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not true! I'm talking all the time!]] You do not discuss, Mr Höchtl, but you state. You determine and you pray: the numbering note and the performance assessment on the numbering note that prevents the rise. [[Abg. Dr Höchtl: But you know that I am 70 to 80 percent of the population? Are you a democrat?]] Mr Höchtl! It is difficult to get into a discussion with you about it, even if I wish you would. But there are certain limits which are obviously not to be exceeded for you in this case. You do not jump, you have clearly explained this: neither in the well nor in another water – even if it may sometimes be healthy. I take note of it. [[Abg. May. Peter: He can't jump, the Höchtl!]] What I am not aware of – and I am again referring to the comments made by the colleague Schaffenrath, Mrs Bundesminister, to you – is that you – at least for me; I believe, for many others too – have acted with one – let us say – refreshing and uncomplicated, uncomplicated access to certain things. Yeah, that's it! They also do not understand that a person who is positive in 13 subjects is not allowed to rise only because he is in 14th century. Specially negative. - That's refreshing! Every person in Austria can think about this, only colleague Höchtl is in front of his well and looks at him, but he does not dare to jump. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I do not wish you a well! I wish you a long life and no suicide!]] At least they jumped thoughtfully, and that, I think, was an approach point. But you haven't gone on and got caught somewhere in a tube, which – allegorically speaking – was formed by the bureaucracy and by the union, in which case the teacher union, was formed and obviously doubled. That's the problem: There's nothing going on! This debate, which, I believe, would be necessary in view of what we are discussing today and what could have been discussed in the Committee on Education, is not going on, and it is no longer in the back and in the front. Because one thing is clear: The absolutely important progress which we support and which you have led to, for example, in the field of school entry is not in line with this type of performance assessment with the refusal of the rise. And that's what I'm doing again at Mr Schweitzer's repetitious ban: If this is done once – even if only with exceptions – and the other time is impossible, if when climbing with a not enough complex regulations are necessary in order to allow for even more walking, then something is not right. And above all, it's no longer true in the school entrance phase. Ladies and gentlemen! If we take this issue seriously, we should not stand by it. You, Mrs Federal Minister, should remember that you have taken this office with a view and conviction and a refreshing access, which I acknowledge to you, which I no longer see. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is reform populist!]] I think there are probably some reasons why nothing goes on. But not only from the point of view of an opposition party, but also from the point of view of pedagogy in this country, it is a pity because you probably have more possibilities – not only through your office, but also because of the uncomplicated access – to solve some restrictions – and I also give them to our side. But there's nothing going on. If I imagine – because this has already been addressed a few times now – how difficult it must have been for Mr Höchtl, for example, in the area of this famous repetier ban, to jump now and to abandon all of his performance obligations, which he has in mind, just to make this concession for the duration of three years – not for educational policy reasons, but for labour market policy reasons that his educational goals, not his own, do not mean – how difficult it must have been for him to make a small leaper, then I really wonder if this kind of hipping is worth it in the assessment of grades and performance. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Why?]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: He must repeat! He's not being brought up automatically!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's not what he's up for!]] I cannot imagine that what we are pre-examination here refers not only to the scope of the repetier ban, but also to these many distortions and distortions in the field of performance assessment – and this refers not only to the basic level or to the input phase, but also to all the other areas – or to anyone else is understandable. In my opinion, this is related to a fundamental problem that you, Mrs Bundesminister, have to address at some point, otherwise something will be lost. We have already lost a lot of things, and we have noticed this again in the debate on integration: If not fundamentally certain things, which are not only related to the performance assessment, not only to the note – because you can also discuss the note – but also to the vintage class system, which you are willing to resolve in the field of basic level, if all of this is not fully considered and here something is possible and considered, namely an innovation that goes beyond these sub-areas, then we miss one of the last possibilities to bring public education in an urgently necessary direction in this area. All the measures you have taken or have been put forward by this House in the area of integration in recent years – as proved by today's discussion and the proposals – are now taking a step back, because they are no longer in line with this system, because they are in conflict with this system because they have not been consistently developed here. That's the unfortunate thing. My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, will speak on the subject of integration. Just one comment: It has already been said a lot about the difficulties. But please, Mrs Minister, tell me the following: Why, on the one hand, is a youth or a youth who has spent eight years in an integrative class sent to a special vocational training school in the ninth year and on the other hand, a youth or a youth who has completed a special school and has completed early in the ninth year is introduced into a polytechnic course or into a general integrative class? ==References====External links== Class – in the last compulsory school year – still need to demand social integration, so to speak, with the other being exactly that in the 9th year. I don't have a checkout. I do not see this regulation. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would have liked to see all that you rightly criticize trying to think about the integration of mentally disabled people until university studies. However, with all your concerns, you cannot explain to me that you are against the fact that integration – and I hope you are not against it – takes place together in vocational preparation, in vocational education and training schools. At least we would have talked about this and should have led to this reform and could have done so. But this opportunity has also been missed, and that is why I can only say: Despite many points which are contained in this whole package of reforms and which are to be assessed positively, this overall gives a negative picture. Finally, a comment on English education in elementary schools. This can be a great success, but only if it is accompanied thoroughly, through school books and, of course, through teacher education. Mr Höchtl, you are going to admit, as you place great emphasis on the fact that ordinary services are provided, that it is difficult for teachers who have had no opportunity to learn English for more than ten years or more to learn English, to be more or less responsible for teaching English, to speak with children for three or four years, to speak with young people in English, although this is not just an advanced one. [[Abg. Dr Höchtl: This has been done in recent years, Mr Oillinger!]] And that will be a certain problem: not for the teachers, but for the children, and then when they come to secondary school, then if the new teachers have to teach them the "th", for example, because the children and young people did not have the opportunity to learn it properly. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You're talking about something that doesn't apply anymore!]] I always think of this as an example from Italy: There it was obviously possible for a teacher to teach English for more than 20 years, and later it was assumed that he did not understand a little English. Perhaps that should also give us some thought, especially to you, Mr Höchtl, with your worship of the performance system, to make a little more fundamental considerations about performance and school system.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16808	Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After the psychoanalytic remarks of my previous speaker, Mr Oellinger, I should also like to say a word about the colleague Schaffenrath, to refresh her memory. The word she has put in her mouth in the discourse with colleagues Höchtl, she has used very well herself, as her own broadcast of 5 October. For more information, please contact: http://europa.eu.int/comm/ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Yes, I can show you that word. With the constant talk that reforms require that the system is not in order – broken, desolat, whatever – one can of course also pursue a very specific policy. One can minimize the self-confidence of those acting – teachers, parents, students – until the impression arises that someone has to come better, stronger, others who have to make it better. You can build a doll to then "shoot it off" and come with better alternatives – if you look closer, perhaps not so much better. I warn you that the school system, the teachers, the parents, all the students are in a sick state, and they are just dying. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There's a system behind that. I do not have to mention the statistical data in detail. There is highest Satisfaction with the school system, with regard to the differentiated system. There is also highest satisfaction with the teachers working there and very high to highest satisfaction with what has been done in educational measures. - As far as to prestress. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My previous speakers, especially Mr Oellinger, have been so concerned with the performance assessment. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Do you speak as an educational scientist or...? You have to say as what you're talking!]] The form we are going to adopt today is a highly legible pedagogical form and should not ultimately be mixed with a political one. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (in the direction of Abg. Schaffenrath) What is liberal about your school policy?]] If you quote educational scientists who support your version, I quote those who support my version. That's the point. Again: Today's decision is one that can be fully legitimised educationally. The proposal regulates the work of teachers in a very small area, namely a task they carry out twice a year, i.e. an assessment carried out in the six months and a final assessment. It does not intervene in what happens all year round, namely the co-evaluation and participation of oral and written cooperation, the work done in a wide variety of ways through motivation, assistance, promotion and mid-term evaluation. All of this is not for discussion. I therefore do not understand the whole excitement at all. Good teaching is based on this general setting, and there is a lot of good teaching in Austria. That is to be said once again. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] What is also important to me – and I would like to maintain this – is that attentive parents and students should constantly strive for this partnership, which also has an assessment and feedback character, and do so. Other ambitions that want to bring trade union student tones into school run counter to these partnership efforts. This should be taken care of. I also believe that the accusation of injustice in connection with the evaluation of the digits does not apply, nor does the question of motivation. I remind you that Platon has already failed with the question of the justice he has put to the Sophists. That is, the sophists have failed because they have begun to develop various justices. Let us therefore leave the justice debate where it belongs, and let us also leave the judgment where it has its rightful place! Numbering notes and other forms of evaluation are expert opinions of professionals, as are those of doctors in the health field. A expert opinion is not one that can be objective. No wrong test procedure should be applied for a note or a digit assessment. Perhaps another comment on all the alternative representatives. I'd love to bring you the moment of closeness to life to school. I wonder, Where does logic remain when one brings performance assessment into the context to a close to life? There is nothing to be heard of closeness of life at once, because one suddenly wants to hear nothing of democratic society! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath]] It seems that we want to return to the old feudal system, in which no democratically standardised procedure decides on the rise opportunities, but again decides criteria such as money, religion, social origin or other dimensions about rise opportunities. Mrs. Colleague! You must decide whether you live in this world, in this democracy or not! - A little more logic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Yes! An example when you give a note!]] Summary: The democratic society holds a school with a selection function, and it is always better for me than blood type, neck size, origin or anything else. I conclude because I also want to leave room for my post-vocal speakers to judge by thanking teachers, parents and students for their work – even in the west of Austria, the summer holidays start tomorrow. In this context, I would like to give you a description of what school is in its impossibility – with a word: What is school? The teacher has the task of leading a hiking group with top athletes and disabled people in fog through impassable terrain in a north-southerly direction, so that all arrive at three different destinations at the best mood and, as far as possible, at the same time. – Let's go on school today!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16936	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e16957	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that the person who does not live in this democracy or in this world is you, Mrs Brinek. Otherwise, I cannot explain to myself the highest satisfaction that you have signaled to the teachership or parenthood. They feel this highest satisfaction probably with schools you have dreamed of, and these are the same schools in which Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer moves when she comes up with ideas for laws as they are here today to negotiate. I would like to tell you what this form of highest satisfaction, which you are promulgated here from the speaker's desk, looks like: It is not only the prohibition of repetiers, which puts schools and students in dire trouble, but it is also the abolition of the admission examination from the second group of primary schools or the equality of the new polytechnic school with the ninth level. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] I will also give you the reasons for this. Have you ever gone to schools that have been proficient for two years, which have been bursting out of all the sewings that each chamber has had to use for two years to set up classes? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] Have you been to schools like that? Then how can you talk about satisfaction? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not just the case, Mrs Colleague, that the first classes can be filled by those who have a positive witness because of her departure from the primary school in the first class train. It's getting much sharper! There is not only the HTL in Pinkafeld, Mr Schweitzer, there is also the HTL in Leonding and the HAK/HASCH in Kirchdorf. Everywhere, at least in Upper Austria – not in your dream world and your dream factory – there are schools where the teachers no longer know where to accommodate the second classes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] I have an article from the "Kronen-Zeitung" with the headline: HTL-Leonding. Second class: 30 needs to get out! - Nice! Mrs. Federal Minister! You don't listen at all, you probably don't care, because you live in a dream world. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You didn't even listen to the previous speaker!]] I say the following to you: This dream world has brought you to the point that in the teaching... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Gehrer.]] I don't know where you live, but I've been a lot on the road and I know that. It is not a problem for teachers who may now be able to teach more and more, but it is quite simply a problem of the place and the classrooms, because they are simply not available. Mrs. Federal Minister! You are making a bad labour market policy, which you carry out on the back of the teachership, on the back of the parents and on the back of our youth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why it is true that those who have given you a bonus, who have put a great deal on you when you became a minister of education, after a year, so much about you that I cannot even say this word because they are not here. And the other part is laughing at you. Probably – I don't know – there must be something in your past that makes some teachers laugh because of your education policy. [[Interlocutors Gaál and Dr Krammer.]] Only a negligible small amount is still satisfied with your school policy. Just keep doing so at the expense of our children, Mrs. Federal Minister! Just keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17062	The next speaker is Mrs. Gehrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17083	Mr President. High house! First of all, to my previous speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17104	Please pay attention! I call the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17120	Those who really look around and know in schools know that there are average class students in the AHS of 25, in the primary school of 24 and in the primary school of 20. Those who really care about school have noticed that the registration figures for commercial academies and trade schools have fallen somewhat after the boom of recent years. Those who really care for school have seen what efforts have been made in recent years to build new school buildings, to provide new school rooms and to allow children a good offer. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two more comments on previous speakers. It was about the performance assessment and also about the fear of anyone. But I'm telling you, it's not about fear, it's about performance. But apparently some here are afraid of performance. I think we should be very quick about the fact that, in school, performance, quality, too, must remain quality, but of course, we must give the children opportunities. With regard to the rise of a non-satisfaction which is repeatedly mentioned, I must tell you that we have taken numerous measures to give the students opportunities, but not in the form of raising them with a five, but rather in order to prevent them from getting a five at all. That is the important thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is achieved by promoting courses, by the early warning system – there is 10 percent less insufficient this year; just like last year – by directing the teacher conferences to take into account the personal situation of young people in their decisions. A word on the question of vocational orientation at the special schools. Ladies and gentlemen! This vocational orientation, which we have anchored as the ninth school year for children with special educational needs, is a gap. There has so far been no ninth school year for special educational funding needs. This year of vocational orientation can be carried out both integratively and at a special pedagogical centre, at a primary school or at a polytechnic course, but at last there is a claim for children with special pedagogical needs to be given the opportunity for vocational orientation, for the introduction into professional life, to move into professional life. This is progress! It has nothing to do with where it is offered. This vocational orientation year can be offered in any form. I believe that this is a real progress for children with special educational needs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who really knows who goes to school has seen that a lot has been done in recent years. I mention in this context more independence and self-responsibility, more autonomy. I mention the willingness of teachers to face new challenges, the many projects, the many new forms of teaching and learning. I also mention the good implementation of the language and technology offensive. It is also very important to me to modernise my curriculum with the classification of curriculums into key areas and enlargement areas, by creating cross-border opportunities to learn through the placement of key qualifications. We are in the middle of this work and implementation is progressing rapidly. All the ladies and gentlemen here in plenary, who decide on laws and let the previous legislative period pass through revision, should actually know what was decided. For example, the professional maturity test in June 1997. That was a year ago. Over 2 000 Students work at a high level on this professional maturity test, and there are already the first graduates of this professional maturity exam. That's a nice success! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I mention integration into primary schools and the AHS sub-level, the partial legal capacity, which was a huge progress – away from the camera lysics – the early warning system, the new polytechnic school, the mandatory professional orientation, which is now being implemented, the performance-related criteria for recruitment, the directors on time and the school law for professionals. I also mention, because it is particularly important to me, the teaching that you decided a few weeks ago and that gives those children a chance that is socially disadvantaged. Today, important steps are being taken again, and I thank those who will decide on these important steps – school entry phase, living foreign language. In this context, I must say something about those who send their unknowing calls to all the world and to all the media. As of autumn, 37 000 children will be given foreign language pre-schooling in the primary level, in the first and second classes of folk school. All teachers have been trained there since 1985. With the transfer in service law in 1990, all teachers have recovered this. This summer, 27 000 teachers will continue training in foreign language courses and also in the field of technology offensive. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is the total number of continuing training courses, not only in these areas!]] – In these areas, these are the priority areas. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Among other things!]] Furthermore, it is decided today: the flexibility of the service groups, the possibility of overlapping several classes of highly talented people, the repetition of the primary school degree – something quite essential for those who do not have a compulsory school degree – and also the vocational preparation year for children with handicaps. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at these packages, all of which have already been decided and which we are already implementing, then I can simply and simply say: The schools in Austria are Europefit! We have reliable public schools, we have future-oriented primary schools, we have need-oriented, good special schools, we have good preparatory polytechnic schools, we have practical vocational schools and vocational secondary and higher schools, we have high-performance gymnasiums, and we have very, very good teacher training facilities and teacher training facilities. I thank all teachers for their commitment! They are the guarantee that our schools in Austria have quality and are European!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Fuchs is now on the floor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17222	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The introduction of a flexible school entry phase has also been achieved as has the foreign language offensive due to the initiative of the social-democratic education politicians. I would like to stress this particularly because, as an infant, I think it is particularly important that school beginners and schoolchildren can now, if necessary, remain one at the primary level for up to three years. At this time, individual developmental differences can be taken more into account and also balanced, resulting in optimal schooling. In the future, the particularly talented can skip a class of basics, in the fifth and sixth levels this is possible once again, and from the ninth school level a third time. So there is targeted talent promotion on the one hand, and on the other hand children with problems and shortcomings do not have to cope with the shock of a provision in the preschool class, but have the opportunity to stay longer in the usual, familiar class association. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All are thus promoted according to their individual requirements or progress in learning and learning skills. The opportunities for a successful school career have been greatly improved with this reform measure. This is another step towards equal opportunities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, a small advertising drop is the form of performance assessment. For the school entry phase, we Socialists and Socialists would have presented ourselves exclusively with the form of performance description and wished us a complete abolition of the number notes. Unfortunately, we had to enter into this compromise. However, we welcome the possibility of adding a description of the benefits to the decision of the School Forum on Performance Assessment by Point Notes. For decades of school tests have only shown positive results. Strengthened motivation and joy of performance of the students are the result. And this motivation and joy in learning should be our goal and concern!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17270	Mrs Haidlmayr has also been mentioned. A voluntary time limit of 10 minutes is indicated. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17288	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to read a few points to you because I assume that you have already forgotten what you once decided. First: "The disabled concept of the Austrian Federal Government of the 10th century. In December 1992, ‘the (integrative) promotion of disabled students in general and vocational education and training of middle and higher schools’ is planned to be extended’. - That was 1992. Secondly, "The resolution of the National Council of 14.7.1994 provides for all appropriate measures to be taken to ensure the 'full integration and individual development of mentally and physically disabled children and young people in all areas of life', which is particularly relevant for vocational orientation, development and communication." Thirdly, ==References== We decided in this House on July 1997 - exactly a year ago - that no one should be disadvantaged due to his disability and that the Federal Government, countries and communities must ensure that the equality of disabled and non-inhibited people in all areas of life must be ensured. I have just mentioned three provisions that you have decided in the last four years. Today we have a school organisation law novelle, Mrs Minister, who carries the handwriting of an official who does not represent integration pedagogy in the performance of his duties. Rather, it is quite specific that it is a ministerial official who represents a special, flawed pedagogy as the president of the pedagogical society. And according to this pattern and the ideas of this president, who represents the defective pedagogy, you have also designed this school organisation law novelle for children with special educational needs. Mrs. Minister! I know that you are not unknown to what has been done in the field of school integration in Austria in recent years and what progress has been made in the context of inclusive teaching. I myself have referred you to the literature of Schönwiese, Feuser, Gstöttner and Fragner, and I could continue the list miserablely. Mrs. Minister! They also do not know what Rosa has done in Italy, which positive successes have been recorded in the long term, especially for children with special educational needs and which successes are to be recorded there. Mrs. Minister! All of this is not unknown to you, but you have the great talent to push out exactly this progress. I do not know why you behave like this, but I suspect you have massive problems with disabled people! [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise! The opposite is the case!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If that is not the case, I ask you, Mrs Minister, why is it so immeasurably important to you that every disabled person is branded with the need for special educational support for him? In this way, you shall take the right to integrative promotion of the child concerned at the latest if the parents have managed to ensure that their disabled child has been taught in an inclusive manner for eight years! [[Abg. Steibl: This is a groundless cowardice!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuchs.]] Then the children or now young people with special educational needs are already integrated into special schools with vocational orientation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you even know that special schools cannot offer any vocational orientation at all because they are not suitable for this? [[Abg. Steibl: We are glad that you tell us so that we also know!]] I assume that in the end you only want to achieve that, in the end, you can maintain your special school system, which you have already loved. What is it for you to maintain the special schools with all your strength and to safeguard their existence and their survival? Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP! If you have a serious interest in the fact that there is really a possibility of integrative training of children and young people with special educational needs, if necessary up to university degree, then you should not end integration after eight stages of school so as to finally put the students into a special school with vocational preparation, but should remove the latter facilities without replacement. They would have to make provision for the ninth school year, which is of course available to children who are not disabled, to be offered in polytechnic schools, vocational schools or in secondary and higher secondary schools for the disabled in the form of an integrative education. Ladies and gentlemen! If you would have wanted this seriously, you could have made an appropriate arrangement. But you obviously don't want that! It seems that it is still important to you – and I do not know why – that every child with special educational needs may be allowed to integrate into society for a period of time, but sometime during his life will be brought back to the special institution – perhaps because the child knows how it is going. Ladies and gentlemen! If you had been a little involved in integration, you would know that the visit of each special institution for persons with special educational needs only leads to the fact that integration into the society for the child concerned, the young people concerned and then for the adults is only significantly complicated. In this way, you create the requirement that disabled people can no longer get rid of the isolation you impose on them. Because if you were once in a special facility, there is hardly any chance of being brought back into society. He's been branded, he's got the title "Sonder-", and he's gonna stay with him! If today a forty-year-old robs a bank because he has no money, then even today the newspapers write about the "former special student" because these people never get rid of this title again. He remains with them, and that is how they live their lives. This adds to the problems that disabled people face in society from the outset: These people are branded in a way that they pursue all their lives and make them constantly difficult. Mrs. Minister! I believe that integration will be important to you at some point or perhaps it will be important now. Take a look at experts who live special education, have written about special education and integration and have collected literature and experience! I believe that if you were willing to conduct such talks, you would also show more willingness to integrate. They could, I assume, at last take note that integration is an essential, indeed one of the most important conditions for disabled people to be able to live in society. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! This morning, a group of disabled people are rolling over the Ringstraße in wheelchairs. They have fought for human rights for disabled people and called for them. 365 days is now old, which should prevent discrimination against people with disabilities in the future. And today, exactly after a year, Mrs Minister, you – and not only you, but also the SPÖ and the ÖVP – are turning your back on the decision you made a year ago and are ad absurdly leading the whole thing by continuing to define the isolation and discrimination of disabled people in this law, instead of reducing discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! This fact is not only unfortunate for disabled people, but it has led many disabled people to lose hope and no longer to believe in what is contained in our laws and to be assured by our federal constitution. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The disabled and those who are committed to integration will not take note of this revision of the School Organisation Act! [[Abg. Steibl: This is new to us!]] Mrs. Minister! I'd like to tell you: They force us to act in the interests of disabled children at the latest in the autumn, when it comes to schooling children again! For we will not allow it to come to a second case of Saviour in Reutte. Mrs. Minister! We won't let that happen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17392	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17413	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I would like to comment briefly on your comments. [[Abg. Murauer: Yes, that is necessary!]] For I would like to say in particular that I understand the problem of the integration of the disabled – and this is certainly a very, very sensitive issue – I would like to point out in all its clarity and clarity that you submit to our Mrs. Federal Minister that she has problems with people with disabilities! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I know Mrs Bundesminister and the internal discussions and I can guarantee you that this is not the case. On the contrary, the Minister of State expressly strives for the integration of the disabled. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I would also like to say something to you if you lend me your ear for a moment, from your own experience. I teach myself a few hours in a special course for management, organization and communication, and I have had a relatively severely disabled young woman as a student this year for the first time. On the basis of this experience, I can very well imagine that the teaching of the disabled presents some teachers and teachers with a very difficult situation. I therefore believe that teachers must also be very careful to prepare for such a situation, because probably not every teacher is able to do so without further delay. We are expressly in favour of the integration of disabled people, but in a way that makes it possible for disabled people as well as teachers, as well as non-inhibited students to cope with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, I wanted to devote an unmistakable part of my speech to Mrs Schaffenrath, who obviously no longer participated in this educational debate. [[Abg. Smolle: Colleague Mother and I are here!]] I am therefore pleased that two other colleagues from the Liberal Forum are still present. I will therefore address you with a few points and ask you to kindly pass this on to Mrs Schaffenrath. On the one hand, Mrs Schaffenrath has welcomed the fact that education policy is at last another subject, and on the other hand she has regretted the standstill in education policy. Of course, I do not have the experience of Mrs Schaffenrath's life in terms of years of life, but I have been following school policy quite closely since the 1980s. As you know, I have been working for many years in the student representation, and I have been able to gain the impression that education policy in Austria has always had a very high priority and that it is at present. Mr Schaffenrath criticised the removal of the prohibition on reptiles in particular. I would have no problem with that if it were simply different in content. But I have a problem with her argumentation, when she thinks how unfair it is to those students who went to school after the old classification. To follow this argument would mean a stop to education policy, which would mean that we could not make any reforms in the field of education, because there are former students, whose schooling was based on a different classification. This meant a real standstill in education policy, and I am convinced that the Liberal Forum does not really want it! In addition, Mr Schaffenrath has today again called for the climb with two not enough. With this in mind, Mrs Motter, I ask you, Mr Smolle, and you, Mr Smolle, the question: Why does she speak of two dissatisfactions? It could also be four or six! I ask you: Where do we draw the border? Because if we are to become a performance-oriented school system in which performance is also assessed, and this is undoubtedly the position of the People's Party, then we have to get a border somewhere. The border that is currently being drawn in seems to us sensible, and that is why we want to maintain it too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] The note that is not enough works just as much or as little motivating as a verbal assessment that expresses the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know just as well as I do – all the relevant studies – that a verbal assessment no longer motivates more than a numerical assessment. In this context, I quote Professor Heitger, who says in tomorrow's "Kurier": "Jene" – and this can be referred to you – "should know that learning and education are the driving emancipatory force to the social rise. These should be reminded that all efforts for true knowledge are also sharing in the one infinite truth." – Professor Heitger thus clearly says that it makes sense to pass on knowledge and ultimately to judge it. I note that in this context we are trying to have a contentious discussion, and this effort could be expressed very well with a word by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, which meant: "If you want men to build a boat, do not give them the wood, but awaken in them the longing for the sea!" And if we decide today on a part of the foreign language offensive in the public school, then we certainly arouse a huge share of longing!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17496	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17515	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon! I may continue with the quote Heitger, because you have made it incomplete. Professor Heitger also says in the same guest comment: "The Ministry provides aid by coming from there didactic-methodical guidelines, which explain the effort of thinking and learning as unnecessary." – Also this aspect, which Professor Heitger also tailors, by saying that perhaps because of the regulations, it is not the best thing to do with the living didactics in our schools, I wanted to let a little bit in. Mr Amon! However, I would also like to say something about your introductory words with which you defended the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding her openness to the disabled. I fully endorse these statements – it was unfair what was said here – but I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to extend the horizon towards disability. They know that I will not get tired of speaking to school sports, because hidden disabilities and hidden attitudes, i.e. the effects of inadequate training in body education, are becoming increasingly evident, as the doctors in schools tell us. You know this problem. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Colleague. Everything the school can't do! The parents are also responsible for this!]] That's the keyword! In the "press hour" on Sunday, the Federal Minister said a lot of things I can agree with: Performance must remain performance, students want and need grades, yes to religious instruction. – You are now saying: School cannot only compensate for the deficits of society. I suppose that's what you're talking about now, madam. Of course she can't, but the school can increase deficits. For example, in the area of lack of movement – and this is my topic – it can be reinforced by inappropriate or too little instruction in physical education in lack of exercise. And she does! – That’s why I stick to it: The call for the daily hour of movement will not fail from my side! Mrs. Federal Minister! In this "press hour" you were called a little disrespectless as "announcement loop". They have made this happen, but they have to name a number: You meant that 90 percent of your announcements were implemented. . I have here a convolut of about 50 to 60 announcements from your mouth that are not implemented. The red light would interrupt me in my list, and I will stop immediately out of solidarity with my colleagues, but I would like to give some suggestions. ==References== In May 1995 a schoolbook action was spoken of in accordance with a new model that you will initiate. You have said that you will think about the Pragmatization of teachers and implement it quickly. They are talking about a redistribution in schools, and administrative tasks are expected to be done at cheaper jobs in the future. It was also mentioned in the press hour. You also mentioned the creation of a new Teacher's Guide, in which it is intended to define exactly what teachers should do outside and inside the school. They have announced that they will promote the primary schools and increase their share of students there. They want to reform teacher training and contact universities in this regard, which make Pädak a university. You also want to reform apprenticeship training – there are approaches – from your side, you want to make the national school councils educational hubs. And what happened? – Good, willful decentralisation and an increase in the competence of schools speaks against it. And so on and so on. I could continue this for a long time and talk about the quality assurance case as well as the quality case et cetera et cetera. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't take 90 percent of this! There is still a lot to do! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17552	Mr Rada is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17571	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! You have said again and again in your contribution to the debate: "He who really knows himself in school...." I would like to continue by saying: If you really know each other in school, you will surely find that today's innovations are changing a lot, but there is still much to be done. For example, I do not want to call the introduction of the school entrance phase a great achievement, but now I am no longer referring to it because some previous speakers have already put out the positive. I would just like to add one sentence: In rural areas in particular, we had so far, because there was no preschool class, discrimination that children who failed to reach school had to wait in the parents' home – not cared for – for their necessary maturity, because kindergartens or childcare facilities are particularly poor goods in these regions. And if I say that there is still much to be recovered in this regard, I am thinking first and foremost of the school maturation. If we allow the children to mature for two or three years with the flexible entrance phase and if we do not complain of a loss of schooling at some point, it seems to me that a schooling certificate will be made half a year before the start of the schooling. Because no teacher can really say with a hundred percent certainty at that time whether a child will be mature at school or not. After two years, when crossing the basic stage two, this results automatically and automatically. That is why I feel that this passus of maturity is essential. There has already been a lot of discussion on a numerical assessment with a possible additional performance description. It seems to me that the number assessment is more than unnecessary at basic level I. In my opinion, it is absolutely essential, and I am also motivating it. In many school experiments on the alternative form of performance assessment, there was a mandatory conversation between parents and teachers. This parent-teacher-controversy instead of a witness with digits has clearly and clearly communicated to the parents the strengths the child has, the weaknesses it shows and where it stands. In my view, such a description is much more powerful than any note that is more than insignificant at that time. Teachers have wanted this form, because in this age of life, they have the biggest problems in showing the truth of the need to use the school law in the novel to assess performance. Therefore, I suggest that in case of any further repair measures, it should be considered whether a performance description – no matter what – would not be more useful than a performance assessment with notes, especially with regard to the age of children.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17619	Mrs Horngacher is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17640	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The 1998 school package brings a number of innovations to our youth. It is essential to me that this should take account of the needs of children, that there should be preserved and that improvements should be made where they are needed. I also welcome the flexible design of the school entrance phase, but I am glad that there is still the opportunity to return where this is really necessary, because some children need longer. There are other important innovations, such as the successful introduction of foreign language in school trials in the 1st and 2nd years. Class of elementary school. I think this is a real progress, because there children can learn playfully, and what you learn at such an early age is much more natural. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The more flexible performance differentiation in primary school and the possibility of a professional orientation year represent a real progress, and a more flexible handling of the classification into performance groups enables the teacher to react faster. It's like this: For the student, it is more motivating if he can be surrounded during the year, because he also feels a faster success. In the event of weaknesses, it can also be better responded. Also the newly created possibility for young people who are 18 years old. It is certainly very welcome and offers many a real chance. It is remarkable when honourable Member Schweitzer mentions that pupils are "parked". Cars are parked, but students are never parked! Students get a chance to do this. - That's to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent years, there has been a great deal of progress in the school sector. There is a clear commitment from our side to a differentiated school system, as there are also different gifts and different needs. We confess ourselves to performance, differentiation and thus to the music system. The majority of the population does the same and also wants to have a clear assessment of performance. For many young people, this form is also a positive experience. You're not always supposed to see it negatively. My children were happy when they came home with a good note, and I was happy about it. They were proud of their performance. That's motivation! In my opinion, other forms of assessment would quickly become floskels. How to evaluate in writing? – You always draw the same stand for this, and it is basically always the same. Mr Oellinger spoke of fear here and also of the need to think in principle about performance in the school system. I also think that you should think about it over and over again, but I think: Performance should be required and expressed in clear notes. Something else is how parents deal with these notes. Parents must give their children the feeling that the value of a child does not depend on his or her note, but that every person, whether he or she is doing a good or a worse job, is of equal value. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Children should not be afraid to get home with a bad note. Then they need a little more support and a little more funding. - That's how I see it. The 1998 school package makes it possible to address the various learning developments of our children from the folk school to the profession more closely. There is a wide range of arches: from individual learning sections, where talented people can also take a faster path, to integration. Mrs Schaffenrath has already blamed reform populism in many issues of our Minister – I think it is very wrong. I think that is really impossible to say, because in the short time when our minister is responsible, much has gone on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Federal Minister has taken a straight and forward-looking path for our youth – with reason and with an eyeset.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17725	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17746	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The school reform package, which is available to us today for decision-making, certainly does not represent a centenary and is certainly not a milestone. After all, it is a small step towards the development and further development of the Austrian school. The school is a very sensitive area, because each of us had to deal with this institution once or even several times in his life. It is not surprising, therefore, that there is an assessment, in the Committee and in this House today pro and contra. I too do not agree with all the 100% of what we decide today, but the pro also prevails from my point of view; for example, as regards the folk school of the two speeds; for example, as far as the introduction of foreign language teaching is concerned, although I also demand that we seek, Mrs Bundesminister, that the teachers are really trained accordingly; for example, as far as the promotion of talent is concerned. It will certainly be very rarely the case that, as the media have criticized, a fifteen-year-old will be admitted to the Matura. But there or there it will be possible in the future for a child to take his maturity test earlier than it was previously possible, so that his life - form can take other forms than it has been so far. I also welcome, for example, the fact that the primary school can be recovered. I am not in any way in the opinion of Mr Schweitzer that we are simply taking this measure in order to beautify the numbers of unemployed. Rather, in a critical phase of life, people will be given the opportunity to catch up on educational content, to qualify better and therefore to have it easier later in the working world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My very valued Mrs. Federal Minister! I would have liked to discuss with you some of the points that you have made in your press hour, but unfortunately my speaking time ends. However, I must address one thing, namely the question of the common school of the 10 to 14 years old. Obviously you have spoken in a certain direction, but I ask you: Do we not already have this joint school in Austria? – It is undisputed in the range of 6 to 10 years old, in the primary school. We find them in de facto with the 10 to 14 years old, where, for example, 80 to 85 percent of school leavers in certain districts of Vienna are sitting together in the lower secondary school, and where in some rural primary schools up to 100 percent of the primary school attends the primary school together. We would save ourselves so much – you have already cut it – in other words, the nonsense of rehearsing also in objects where a student has already cut off positively. We're wasting human talents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats will therefore also confess to the common school of 10 to 14 years in the new Party Programme and in the new Education Programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17809	The next speaker is Mr Brauneder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17830	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! The debate has animated me to speak. I want to focus on two things. First of all: If someone asked me if I would stand for performance, I would be sure to do so and even decorate this answer with the famous without-if-and-but. However, this effort to do so, also on the part of those who promote it, covers certain – I don't want to say "word-playings", but maybe: – floskels which one no longer asks behind. This includes "playful learning". Nothing against playful learning when the emphasis is on "learning"! I would also like to say that it is not only a matter of learning as a process, but also very important to the knowledge that is finally learned, to the knowledge that is maintained after the learning process, as much as possible throughout life. Because "lifelong learning" in itself is nonsense if it cannot build on already learned knowledge. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Amon, with the longing for the sea and the construction of a boat, has set a very good example. However, if the longing for the sea drives me to build a boat, and I find there, so to speak, no boar, no building material, then I get into a swim there – in the literal and in the transferred sense. Because with the longing alone you can't build a boat. You need a little bit more to do, while I really like this longing for the sea... – Dear Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Then I'm so excited and organized!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Build a boat with longing that looks across the sea – probably true in a dream, but not in reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second one is a fetish, a doll that is built up and that you're dripping on. He has a name, that name is "digit note". I've come to know, so to speak, what number notes I've got and when that was. So I'm speaking from experience now. These number notes are actually characteristic words from – I speak from experience – "Very good" over the intermediate stages to "not enough". As I said, I'm actually speaking from experience. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not enough too!]] – You recognized it, the irony I wanted to give you so that you can praise. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The numbers are only chips for attribute words that indicate benefits. They do not stand for themselves as the main words, but they are about a "satisfying" performance or a "satisfying" performance. There were in the old age – perhaps good – also some other assessments as I took away from a folk school certificate. [[The speaker holds a school certificate.]] No, I'll take it from a "school news." There were also "Measurable" or "Tad value" in the range of the amount. [[Abg. Smolle: Listen, hear!]] That is, the point actually stands for a description. That is why I do not understand the breach of the numbering note, which, although I do not wish to say that it serves to simplify the administration, is constitutional in my view also in these precise words and commandments. It is only because the claim in Article 18 is sufficient that the final product, the assessment, is precisely determined. However, I agree with Mrs Brinek's opinion that these notes – paragraphs of words, which I would like to stress once again – are opinions. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is in laws the beautiful passus that designations can be understood double sex. That is why I should also like to say to you in the face of a classic quote, Mrs Federal Minister: Sire, please provide a better German teaching so that you know that the word "satisfying" is a characteristic word and not a digit note. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17940	The next speaker is Mr Johann Schuster. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4. That's not a school note, please. It's a time record.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e17972	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the end of the school was in the eastern federal states of our Republic, and tomorrow the gates in the western Länder close. I am not ready to thank very much today in the discussion on the school package: the teachers, the parents' associations and the school committees. You have, as far as I know, really tried to make things right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The debate today is about an extensive school package, with the main aim of testing and transferring best practice to the general school system. We have already heard how far Austria is in this regard. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the European Union White Paper calls for three languages for each EU citizen. Furthermore, the Council of Europe will declare 2001 as the year of foreign language learning. It can therefore be seen that, whether the EU or the Council of Europe, foreign languages are given great importance. High house! The internationalisation of Austrian schools is a declared goal of the Austrian People's Party. I think we're on the best way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In principle, I am very grateful to you for your prelude to foreign languages in the public schools. I welcome these offensives and consider them positive overall. But I also qualify for performance, for performance both in life and in our schools. I would like good services to be rewarded and clearly removed from worse performance. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Since we have now also taken over the EU Presidency and there is no other possibility, I would like to address you with a special issue, which I believe is quite a matter of concern to the schools. It is about the effect of violence in the media on children and young people. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that in recent years there has been a marked increase in violence among young people. In Austria, according to police crime statistics, the figures have more than doubled. Mrs. Federal Minister! We note that schools too do not remain untouched. You are also concerned, and I therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to plan and advance projects and actions with other countries to combat violence in the media within the framework of the EU Presidency as Minister for Education. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this problem, which affects the family as well as the school, we must not leave the parents alone. I think that, in connection with the EU Presidency, cross-border projects must be of great concern to us for the purpose of pushing back violence in the media.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18026	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18055	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Already some previous speakers have expressed their thanks to various actors in the school industry. Following a suggestion, I would like to express my thanks to the students, for they are the ones who have to cooperate with us for a whole year and even if we are not good "draw". I think that the students should be in the foreground, and I would therefore like to express this thanks to them deliberately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us, social democrats and workers' representatives, the enforcement of the measures in the field of education provided for in the National Employment Action Plan – such as the resurgence of the primary school degree, the abolition of the repeat ban and the reception network for all those young people who, despite all efforts on the labour market, do not find a teaching centre – was a central concern. I am very glad that we have succeeded. For we assume that all young people have a right to training. In this way, the school reform package to be decided on today will include pupils who will be the 4th. Class of primary school or polytechnic course have not successfully completed their school course, the possibility of being awarded until the 18th century. In the course of a voluntary tenth or eleventh school year, the corresponding positive compulsory school qualification is to be paid free of charge. For this purpose, 50 million schilling are foreseen in the budget. Let us not forget that some 1,000 young people will be affected and beneficial. It is also a pleasure to note that since 1997 the prohibition of repetitious education for students with four or more "not enough" of the first stage of a secondary or higher school for the years 1997/98 to 2001. Around 350 additional teacher posts are provided for this purpose. This is very important because we are missing jobs in this area. About 3,000 to 4,000 students are affected. In this context, I hope that another important point of the National Employment Action Plan will also be implemented, namely the reduction of the still high drop-out ratios in vocational education and training. We must do everything we can to increase the retention rate in these schools, from improving the early warning system to pedagogical didactic measures and accordingly adapted learning organisations, and thus the opportunities for a further positive school career. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me the following sentence: I believe that we should use this speaker's seat not only to distribute, but also to plug in once and admit a mistake, a defect or a failure. And Mrs Madl's speech prompts me, as a teacher, to apologize to her from this point of view: We really don't do everything, we have failed with her, but I still wish her all the best for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18108	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18129	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Right ahead: School tests are not there to be constantly extended. I think that through school attempts one should find out those ideas that are suitable to enter the general school system. Experience gained on the basis of school tests can then be incorporated into the school system and can expand and enrich teaching activities. About a quarter of the 3 295 public schools have led the preschool level in recent years. However, the pre-school level is only possible where it is also feasible from the settlement. In thinly populated regions, it was hardly possible to carry out the pre-school experiment. The finding of lack of or lack of school maturity at school entry is linked to uncertainty in teaching. Therefore, all school-leaving and school-leaving children must be given a gentle entry into primary school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If three objectives can be achieved under the 1998 school package in the School Organisation Act for the Entry into School, namely increasing the positive motivation in the school entrance area, improving cooperation between pre-school classes and 1st and 2nd. The school level and the open space for an integrative design of the entrance phase should be highlighted in praise. From my own practice I know the different levels of development of the school beginners. Every teacher's task is not to pick up the school beginner where he wants it, but where the child really is. This shows the quality of the teacher: bringing the various starting positions under one hat. Especially in the school entrance phase can and should be taken into account at the learning pace of the individual students. Development delays, which sometimes have to be shown and led to a change in schooling, could be particularly balanced at the entrance stage. I myself have carried out the school "school entrance area" in my school and have found that some students are making developmental leaps in the first two years, which have a very positive impact on these children. It is also possible to introduce these children carefully into the school business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg.: (in the direction of President Dr. Fischer) The noise here is unbearable!]] I personally believe that these delayed children in a preschool class receive better promotion than in the kindergarten. In this area, the integration also includes the disabled, who receive social integration in the Community of the Class Association. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Short to the living English language: In the 3rd and 4th years. Class showed a great success. Now this school attempt should also take place on the 1st and 2nd. Class extended and transferred there to the regular education system, though integrative, not extra, but – which is of course particularly important – in the sense of internationalization, as learning foreign languages is of particular importance. There it is the school's job to allow for a fun, playful, and uncompulsory atmosphere. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I believe that this school reform package has again taken a step into the future that benefits our students in their work in school. And if I may take up Mr Madl's word, I can only say to you: [[Abg. Madl: Yes, of course!]] Minister of Education! Keep going, then I'm not afraid about the future of our children!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18213	Now we are listening to the last speaker. – Mr Riepl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18234	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In her speech, the Federal Minister spoke about the term "eurofit" in the field of school. I think the term is justified, and we are on a good way there. But I mean, we're not as fit as we might imagine. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have addressed the top school students of some schools. They did not address the HTLs, there are still class student maximums of up to 36. I know this from my own experience, as my son is visiting such a class. So there is still a lot to be done in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! Give people the chance to re-acquire the primary school – this is a sentence that has been shaped in the debate. We also decide today on a revision in this area. I think we should give all young people the opportunity to continue to attend vocational school in the event of a job loss or early termination of the apprenticeship relationship. § 21 of the Law on compulsory education provides that not all are allowed to continue attending the vocational school, namely, if they have not yet found a new apprenticeship on the occasion of a change in teaching places, but are still seeking training in this profession. In particular, I would like to ask the coalition partner – in particular the signals of Mr Höchtl and Mrs Tichy-Schreder – to seek a solution together with us so that young people who have lost their apprenticeship – perhaps indebtedly – are not automatically excluded from continuing vocational school at the same time. I admit: It's about a small group. However, I believe that small groups in particular are worth taking particular account of. One last thought in this discussion on professional maturity examination: Mrs. Federal Minister! You, too, mentioned them in your speech. I think we should remember that the National Action Plan is talking about a cost-effective promotion of preparation courses. On this point, we still owe each other a lot of work to meet this promotion. I think that we should also use the opportunities available in vocational schools in the preparation of the proposals in this area. In this context, I think that the corset for vocational schools is still a bit narrow. However, with a little good will, we can benefit our well-known vocational schools to do even more to support those who are trying to qualify for professional training.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18283	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. No final words are required. We shall therefore proceed to the votes taken separately between the various requests. First, we vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1277 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Schaffenrath. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. The present draft concerning a federal law amending the School Organisation Act may be amended by virtue of its nature. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Act will be passed only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. That is why I establish the corresponding quota as given. I now come to the amendment tabled by Mrs Schaffenrath and others concerning Z. 1 of the draft law. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where is the Schaffenrath?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have made the request of Schaffenrath and comrades to Z. 1 agree to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign in this regard. – This is accepted with the two-thirds majority required by constitutional law. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. In the case of approval, I should like to ask you to speak out of the seats for this amendment by raising the number of seats. – I notice: This is so decided with the required two-thirds majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the third-reading proposal for a sign. – The proposal was adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1292. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. I note that this resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 134.) Next, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1278 of the supplements. Mrs Schaffenrath's amendment or supplementary request is also available. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above. This is also a federal law, which is in the sense of the kind. 14 para. 10 B-VG can only be amended in the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds. I come to the supplementary request by Mrs Schaffenrath and others concerning the insertion of a new Z. 10a. In the event of consent, I would like a sign on this matter. [[Call the ÖVP:counting!]] - Are you serious about this? But the enumeration would also require the enumeration of those who do not agree, and this is obviously not required here. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Mr President! There are six present!]] – I must now be careful that I do not get confused in the Croquis! MEPs Schaffenrath and Comrades have, as mentioned above, an additional request concerning the insertion of a new Z. 10a. This has remained in the minority. In addition, Mrs Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades have tabled a motion for an amendment which will be put to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 2 § 18 para. 2 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who speak for it to be a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. So I'm going to leave you on Z at once. 2 § 18 para. 2 as amended by the Government template. In the event of approval, I would ask for an important sign. – I note that this has been accepted by the majority. In addition, MEPs Schaffenrath and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Z. 19 § 82 para. 5th reference. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. So I leave Z. 19 § 82 para. 5th vote in the version of the Government template. In the event of consent, I would like a sign on this matter. – This is adopted by a majority. In addition, Members Schaffenrath and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the abolition of the Z. 20. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment. – This too is the minority. The application is rejected. We are therefore voting on Z. 20 as amended by the Government template. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – I notice that Z. 20 as amended by a majority. This will allow us to vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. I note that this was accepted by the majority, with the required two-thirds majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading give a sign on this point. . I note that the proposal was adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. Next, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1279 of the supplements. Mrs Schaffenrath has tabled an amendment. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Where is she?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I shall first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on. Also this text of the law can be according to Art. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Act will only be passed with two-thirds majority at increased quorum. I note that this quota is given. We shall vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades on Z. 2 § 6 para. 2d. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I can therefore vote on this part of the proposal as it stands. I am looking for those members of the House who speak for it to be a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Next, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I should like to ask you, in case of consent, to rise from the seats. – The remaining parts of the template are accepted with the required two-thirds majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this draft law at third reading should rise from the seats. . I note that this was so decided with the required two-thirds majority at third reading. In this way we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1280 of the supplements. The purpose of this draft law is to amend the basic law on compulsory schooling, and it can therefore be amended in the sense of the law. 14 para. 10 Federal Constitutional Act will only be adopted with a two-thirds majority in the case of increased quorum. This quota is given by at least half of the Members. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. . I note that this draft law was adopted at second reading with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of approval, I should like to ask for a sign at third reading. – I notice: The proposal was adopted at third reading with the necessary two-thirds majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1298 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this report or to take note of this report to give a sign on this point. – I notice: The report has been taken note of by a majority. We have thus concluded the agenda items that are now being discussed. 14. Point report of the Committee on Education on the Government template (1281 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Minority School Act for the Burgenland (1296 of the Supplements) 15. Point report of the Committee on Education on the Government template (1282 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Minority School Act for Carinthia (1297 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18406	We come to points 14 and 15 on which the debate takes place under one. There is no need to report on the part of Mr Amon. That is why I can give the floor to Mrs Krammer as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18434	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. I sincerely hope that Mrs Schaffenrath has not happened anything unforeseen! I think she's in the hospital or somewhere. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For it is very unusual that someone who makes applications is not even there to support these applications. If something happened to you, We wish her best recovery! [[Abg. Smolle: Mrs Colleague! Don't get tasteless!]] – This is not tasteless, that is Christian charity: I'm worried about her condition! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the minority schools in Burgenland, I would like to make a very brief statement about the school and the services required by the students at school: Teachers take into account the weaknesses and strengths of children. They're trying. You can accept that from any teacher. However, one must not say something to the children – that is what I would like to say – "antun": They must not, as it were, be carried through school on the upholstery and then let them go into a hard, reckless world of work! That is unfair to the children! They must also be required in school, for otherwise they are not used to performing in life! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That hits the children very hard! ...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18490	Ladies and gentlemen! You can't understand anything! - Christa, the microphone's turned off! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Don't do anything! Leave it off!]] I know that in the evening the sound level is always higher. But we only have three speakers on this point. It's going to be right back to the vote. I'm asking for a little more rest. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18517	Thank you, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] - I'll invite you to come to school. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to say that, in connection with the development of the minority school law and the school legislation in Burgenland, there were substantial innovations from 1994 onwards: The possibility of learning Croatian and Hungarian in school now exists in Burgenland, from the folk school to Matura. The school tests were taken into the general school system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] - Shut up, don't bother! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what the kids in school have to learn! You were visibly in a school where you were not taught. If only you'd been with me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The maximum number of students has been reduced to 20 and the opening number for minority languages is 5 students. That's very pleasing, because almost on the day exactly 11 years ago – on 7th. July 1987 – in a speech in the Federal Council, I asked that if only five students demand it... [[Abg. Schieder drinks from a water glass from the ministerial bank.]] [[General cheerfulness and general condolences.]] - Arbitrators! I'll apply for a "satisfying" in amounts! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Now I ask again for a little more seriousity, because I think the minority education has deserved your attention! We have worked hard on this in the Burgenland, and we are very happy that we have come to this solution. What I asked for in 1987 is that, at the request of five students, one of the national languages in the Burgenland must be further taught. The claim that the testimonies and school news will be issued bilingually can of course be filed in the Burgenland, and this is also required by one third of the children attending minority schools. The State Treaty of 1945 speaks only of the Slovenian and Croatian languages. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] – I’ve always known you’re a little stupid.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18612	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18627	I apologize, Mr President. In 1994, the Minority School Act also extended the offer for bilingual teaching to Hungarian. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ms. Teacher! What kind of state agreement was there in 1945?]] - I'm Mrs. Director! Get me good! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The country of Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen, has expanded its offer in Hungarian and Croatian in kindergartens. Ladies and gentlemen! It is particularly pleasing, however, that not only many children, whose mother tongue is Hungarian or Croatian, attend minority schools, but also more and more children who do not have previous knowledge in the respective languages are registered in these multilingual kindergartens. And this is a development that we should really welcome! As a citizen, I am pleased about this because I imagine that it should not be minority schools, but schools in which the national languages of Burgenland are taught. Another encouraging development is the start of teaching the Roma language in Burgenland. A first lesson has already been completed, and we are already beginning to train people who are enabling Roma children to learn their Roma language. We should all be happy that there is this opportunity now and that we can also offer lessons in this language! In addition, it is another advantage for multilingual children that, if they now also learn English in the entrance phase, they actually grow up in trilingual terms: They learn Hungarian and German or Croatian and German and can now also accept the offer, for example, English in folk school and thus learn three languages, and this is a very encouraging development! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18675	Mr Schweitzer has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18699	Ladies and gentlemen! My former colleague, with whom I had the pleasure of completing the Young or New Teacher Seminary, but which has been advanced to the Director, said that the State Treaty dates back to 1945. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: I remember that with horror!]] [[Rejoicing and Congratulation]] I am actually correcting her – although she is a director and I am not a director – that the state contract dates back to 1955!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18741	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18762	Ladies and gentlemen! I think we'll still expect to get to the summer holidays! Perhaps, in view of the matter at hand, we can still make a few moments more serious! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are your colleagues?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry I've only been in this house for a few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes! What have we done so far without you!]] For I assume that I would have tried with all my senses to see a more comprehensive reform of the minority school law, both in Burgenland and in Carinthia. We know that the Minority School Act has qualitative shortcomings. We've already shown this a few times. That is why I assume, ladies and gentlemen – and I may be going in a slightly different way than my colleague Schaffenrath – and still have the great hope that we will have a great reform in the minority education area too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] That's what I've been willing to do. I assume that we will work together. Nevertheless, I want to point out briefly some basic, very current shortcomings in the Carinthian minority school law. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We have already presented in the Committee the urgent need for reform of the Carinthian Minority School Act. I submitted an additional request. Therefore, allow me to read it in order to do so in order to satisfy the Rules of Procedure. Additional request by Mr Karl Smolle, Mr Maria Schaffenrath, partners on the Government template concerning a Federal Act amending the Minority School Act for Carinthia, as amended by the Committee report of the Teaching Committee (1297 of the Supplements) The National Council wants to decide: the following points 3a and 3b are inserted after point 3: 3a. In § 24 para. 1 is "for Austrian citizens of the Slovenian minority"; 3b. In § 27 the turn of "Austrian citizenship" is absent. I do not think it is a question of discriminating a school in Carinthia in this way. I mean, this is the only Austrian public high school in which citizenship is conditional, and we could eliminate that! I think that this provision goes back to the old fear in the cold war or during the war, when one believed, in this way and How to save Carinthia from Communism. Communism has not come, but probably one has also hoped a little ahead of time that no students will come from the south. – This is not EU-compliant and unreasonable. Because it would be good if others also attended this school. What I would like to say is that it is actually less Slovenian citizens, but very often citizens of the EU who have problems with the need for Austrian citizenship. These are people who have some relationship with the language and would like to have a Slovenian-German education. With regard to the Burgenland, I would also like to point out a very important matter. Allow me first to read the motion for a resolution and only then justify it. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that would be very reasonable. At the time, we wanted to provide a small amount of birth aid for the existing gymnasium. This is full now, has students, and it's all right. In other words, we do not need to continue this now as a school attempt, but we could proceed to the regular schooling method. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been in Burgenland for some time – and this is a very good fact – teachers who are willing to really stop and teach primary school for Roma children, and who have developed a very good personal relationship with the Roma children, so that about 60 percent or even 70 percent of those in question are willing to take part in this school. Overall, it's almost 100 percent, but there's a certain fluctuation. In view of this, I do not believe that teachers who do this work and have a 40-hour week will receive a net remuneration of only about 9 100 s, as well as an action for unemployed teachers! I am sorry, Madam Minister, that I am saying so, but I think it is a shame that such an important matter is dealt with in such a way next door. I urge you to remedy this! It is not about a lot of money, but only about recognizing the performance of these teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! I have brought a little bit of agreement to my next work in Parliament. You know, I used to be with the Greens, and there I learned a little activism. And you should not learn the good, so I have allowed myself to bring a poster on which the language "German" is first and then – ever smaller – the minority languages are mentioned. Above the lettering "German" is – as you can see – a sticker mounted with the term "short-sighted". [[The speaker shall present the poster in the form of a visual inspection panel.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Talk to the microphone! We don't understand anything!]] Thank you, Mrs Mertel! I'll be happy to let the poster go so to speak! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now we see nothing!]] To you too! I believe that we should respect the languages spoken in Austria, which are our native languages and the languages of our common fatherland. The best way of respecting these languages is to provide good teaching and to create good kindergartens in which these languages are spoken, and to make progress in this area, especially in the media, radio and television. Help us! Help the ethnic groups in this really big, good Austrian project. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18891	The supplementary request, which Mr Smolle has read, is supported and is under negotiation. Similarly, the motion for a resolution on the transfer of school attempts in the field of minority education in the Burgenland to the regular school system is also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18912	Dobar ve#er poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar ve#er gospodin predsednik! Dobar ve#er gospoda ministerka! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Smolle has said, there has generally been a bit of a turbulence, especially the motion for a resolution which he has read. [[Abg. Smolle: (the poster shown during his speech attaching to the ministerial bank) does it bother you if I hang the poster?]] - No, that doesn't bother me at all! The President of the Council decides whether this is an issue, not me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18953	Mr Smolle! You have had the opportunity to point out your poster! Everyone has read it! – Mrs Stoisits! Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e18968	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Smolle has an extremely serious background. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This has of course also to do with the poster! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am now particularly addressing you with the request for support. It is about extra-school learning services organised by the Roma Association for the Promotion of Roma in Oberwart. This project was created on the occasion of the great distress after the murders in Oberwart and was well-welcomely supported everywhere. Now it has been shown that the same thing is not being treated the same way. Those teachers who have worked very successfully with Roma children in recent years and who have real successes – not in their self-understanding as teachers, but in the social pedagogical content of this non-school learning care – are simply paid less than if they were teachers in ordinary schools. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you, from this debate, to bear in mind that you may find opportunities to make up for the lack of money. The association receives a certain amount as a subsidy and can only pass on that amount. And that's less than those teachers would be worth if they were teachers at normal schools. That is why I ask you to find a solution – perhaps together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as the person responsible for groups of people. This is the concern that Mr Smolle has presented in a serious way, and the poster has led to a bit of a fall. I would also ask the Members of the other political groups to see this as a real serious concern. Of course, I also supported the concern regarding the successful school model of the bilingual gymnasium in Oberwart. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] Mrs. Minister! They were not yet ministers when it was possible to establish this school against violent resistance in Burgenland. It was always called at the time: Will there be any need for that? Will there be demand for it? Our argument was then: Let's try it! And now it's the success model. It's a top rider in every school ranking. Where is every state visit going to Burgenland? – In this European model! I think that this model is to such an extent exemplary that it should no longer remain a provisional but, in order to say it untechnically, deserves entry into the general system. But I'm not here to support Karel Smolle's concerns alone. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a concern, too. It's about 4. Class folk school in Carinthia. I say it very briefly, compressed and concisely, ladies and gentlemen, Austria violates Austrian constitutional law on every school day with the condition that we have created with the minority school law! There is bilingual elementary education – it is defined in Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty – only in the first three classes, but not in the 4th. Class of elementary school. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is not an elementary teaching, in the 3rd and 4th. Great!]] This is a pattern of thinking or thinking that derives from the monarchy. For those who are knowledgeable: This is the model of the Utraquistic School. [[Abg. Wormitzer: You don't know each other!]] In Carinthia, you've been taught this way: ==References== Class Slovenian, in the 2nd and 3rd years. Class at the same time German and Slovenian – since the children learned German – and in the 4th grade. Great. Just German. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true!]] For it was about demonstrating what the state language is, what is more valuable and what is desired. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is not the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Residual elements of this system are the subject of the current right, the minority school law of Carinthia. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Speak the truth!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment, which I read here. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would be a renovation which, I admit, would put much in motion in the school system in Carinthia, in every relationship, so to speak, on the meta level of politics, but also on the use of teachers. What I ask you to do is think about whether it is in the 20th century. In fact, it is still appropriate to have models and patterns of the monarchy in today's education system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, I can tell you that the Carinthian Slovenians have of course not remained inactive. They have already brought a complaint to the Constitutional Court against the § 16 of the Carinthian Minority School Act, namely that it is unconstitutional. They want to enforce the right to elementary education in Slovenian – as provided for in Article 7 for all levels of education. They want their right to equality before the law in accordance with Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. The students who do so want the right to education and non-discrimination of their mother tongue. Not least, it is also about the equality of national languages in Carinthia. There are two national languages: German and Slovenian. Equally side by side, admittedly, the one language is dominated by all, the second language only by few – few privileged ones, as I mean. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the last message of my own on this day and perhaps for this session: Consensuality is curable! I have often said that to you, that is the motto of my politician. I'll tell you: Steter drop hollows the stone, and even the most hollow heads will be affected.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19110	Firstly, I note that the amendment tabled by Mr Stoisits is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Secondly, Mr Wurmitzer has made a real correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, Mrs Stoisits has asserted that, in the Austrian schools in Carinthia, constitutional law is broken every day and the Austrian State Treaty is being violated. This finding is absolutely incorrect. I'll explain that too. First: The implementing legislation for the Minority School Act is state-owned. The Carinthian Landtag decided that in the first three classes of elementary education, bilingual teaching is conducted, and in the 4th. There is a class – because there is already a subject of class there – the compulsory subject of Slovenian. That means that there is no more elementary teaching there, but very probably Slovenian language teaching. This is in line with the Austrian State Treaty, which is in line with the Austrian Constitution. The claims made by Mrs Stoisits are false.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19178	The next speaker is Dr. Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19199	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what we have created in Austria in minority schools can really be seen. We are proud of this, and we are glad that this could be achieved together. There is no doubt that this is something to be found in the decision-making of these small novels. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, We have committed ourselves to the state contract in 1955. And the current regulation, which is addressed by the amendments or motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Stoisits, Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Smolle, is intended to protect the Slovenians with Austrian citizenship in Austria. Because, otherwise, many could come, and the capacities of schools would not be enough. That means that it is in line with the State Treaty, is in the interests of minority protection in Austria. With regard to the remaining concerns: The school tests have not yet been done so far that they can already be transferred to the general school system. We are willing to continue to talk about all requests and concerns, but I think we should be satisfied with what we have now and what has been successfully carried out. For every additional idea we will be very open in the future and talk about it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19239	Mrs Stoisits has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19260	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a politician and a politician, one must constantly deal with different issues, is asked about various things, and often has to comment on topics where one is not really satanic. But each and every one of us, ladies and gentlemen, has really identified topics in which, in good Austrian words, he really knows himself. With Professor Van der Bellen it's financial science, with Professor Khol it's state science, with another it's something else – and with me it's the people's issues. I do not only have to represent a position from the point of view of those concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A subjective position!]] I admit that the view of those concerned is always at risk of being a point of view that emphasizes the subjective more strongly, Mrs. Dr. Mertel, as well as a Carinthian – so to speak, "Bärten is' leit ans" – is somehow subjectively affected. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But she's subjective!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No prejudices.]] – No, not at all! As a citizen, I am also concerned about Burgenländerwitze. Ladies and gentlemen! If, however, people are constantly speaking against better knowledge and people who are subjectively affected on the one hand and on the other hand also have a certain degree of expertise – not only to me but also to my colleague Haidlmayr, for example – in the National Council, here in the House are constantly dequalifying and devaluating about them, ladies and gentlemen, then I can only say that what I said at the end of my first speech – the steady drop of the stone, even the most hollow head can be affected, has obviously already fallen on fertile soil. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is devaluable!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very serious area. Minority members are particularly at risk in their existence as regards their linguistic and cultural characteristics in our modern, fast-paced, globalised age. That is why – Mr Schiederer shakes his head – the questions of education, language learning and also media issues are particularly difficult. Because, Mr. Arbitrator... [[Abg. Arbitrators: But access to the languages has also become greater through globalisation!]] Access has grown, but the opportunities must also be created in parallel! Mr Schieder! I know what I'm talking about. When I turn up the TV, I have 30 programmes in Vienna cable TV or maybe even more to choose from. But no program – except on Sunday for half an hour – offers program in my native language. This is the danger, Mr Schieder! I do not make you or anyone else responsible for it, but that is, so to speak, also an expression of our time. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But that can be received directly!]] Mr Schieder! That is why it is so important that we pay particular attention to the issues of language learning and the possibility of learning one's own mother tongue as an educational language. This is the background of commitment! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Krammer and Smolle.]] That's what the Roma kids are talking about. These are illiterates in their own language, they are not literaryized in their language, and many Slovenian-speaking and Croatian-speaking, Czech-, Slovak- and Hungarian-speaking alike! [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr. Krammer]] ==References====External links== It is particularly important to promote these languages, which are also languages of our home country, in the united Europe, in the ever-increasing Europe. That's the concern. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as I stand here, I will not be prevented from representing this here with impetus, with commitment and, if it has to be, with distress, but also with the necessary expertise. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We have achieved success. The bilingual gymnasium in Oberwart would not exist, there would be no greens in Parliament, and there would be no people who can be convinced. I am very, very grateful to former Minister Scholten for the fact that, when he was new, he somehow realized how to put the signs of the time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is she grateful to the school? – But there she is the only one in this house!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In this area, you would also have left some marks, although I think that: Your days have not yet been counted. But: You have not yet left traces of the promotion of minorities, their languages and their culture. As I said, It's not too late yet. Steter drop hollows the stone.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19395	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19417	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I would like to make it short because our speaking time is very low. First: Mrs Stoisits! They have rightly argued that there is a constitutional action. But all the constitutional complaints in the Causa Kärntner minority school law have ended, as the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has said: The Kärntner Minority School Act currently fully complies with Article 7. That's the situation. Therefore, you cannot change the situation here with an amendment, but only at the negotiating table – and only at a negotiating table together with Carinthia. You're invited to do this. The amendment will not take place, Mrs Stoisits, but only at the proper negotiating level with Carinthia. [[Abg. Oellinger: From the Carinthian Home Office!]] And, Mrs Stoisits – and I say this to you in all openness – your position is not even fully supported by the Carinthian Slovenians – to mention here also the importance you have. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the question of the School of Romance and the Roma in Oberwart: In this connection, I am right, Mrs Stoisits. I consider it simply and simply unfair that there are two teachers who receive their salary from three separate sections, namely from the promotion of the labour market, from a grant to an association and from another base, which varies from year to year. In addition, their salary is more than a third lower than that of a comparable compulsory school teacher. I think that this Republic should respect its commitments to the minority and that securing this project in a proper school system would be an hour's commandment. In my opinion, the current procedure is better than it used to be, but it is certainly not a piece of fame for the Federal Government and for the promises it made to the Sinti and Roma peoples' groups. You're right: That's a lot faster – faster! – Corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19460	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall proceed to the votes. First, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1281 of the supplements. This is the federal law that amends the minority school law for the Burgenland. This can be done in the sense of the species. 14 para. 10 of the Federal Constitution only in the presence of at least half of the members of the National Council and amended or decided by a majority of at least two thirds of the votes. I therefore begin by stating the necessary presence of the constitutional quota for the votes. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the present bill – minority school law, Burgenland-Novelle – give a corresponding sign. . I note that this is decided with the required two-thirds majority in the presence of the necessary quota. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that the Ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, give a sign on this. – The draft law is also adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades on the transfer of school attempts in the field of minority education in Burgenland to the regular education system and the safeguarding of learning care for students of the Roma People's Group. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the Smolle and Comrades resolution give a sign of this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1282 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Smolle. In addition, Mrs Mag. Mr Stoisits submitted an additional request. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposals mentioned and then on the draft law as it stands. It is also a template which is in the sense of the type. 14 para. 10 B-VG can only be amended in the presence of at least half of the members of the National Council and by a two-thirds majority. We therefore come to the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades concerning the insertion of a new point 1a and a new point 2a. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Mr Smolle and Mr Comrades also submitted an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new Z3a and a Z3b. In the event of approval, I may ask for a sign on this matter. – This is also the minority. In this way we can now vote on the present draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the Government's proposal to give a positive signal. . I note that the National Council decided this with the required two-thirds majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 16. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (1202 of the Supplements): Bundesmuseen-Law (1338 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19578	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. Mr Krüger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19602	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of the liberal opposition to the government template of the Federal Museum Act in a short time: It is the institution model of the ÖVP, almost the twin brother of the Bundestheater Act with its federal theatre distribution in the form of companies with limited liability. Now it is about federal museums in the form of the ÖVP institution model. According to the report of the Committee on Culture, the objective of the Government's proposal is to limit the influence of the state. Of this self-restriction of the state influence, very little can be seen from the fact that the Federal Minister – or in concrete terms the Minister of State – is solely responsible for the establishment of the nine Federal Museum Directors. This is an anachronism of the special kind. It cannot be a priority or at all task of a Federal Minister or a Federal Minister to vote or to vote on nine museum directors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will of course say: As long as it is responsible for this place of business, this is absolutely necessary. – Mrs Colleague! Look at the international standard. Your own expert, the director of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, said: For Holland, it is unthinkable that the Minister is responsible for using the ad personam director. This is where politics has to impose a self-restriction and finally the umbilical cord between the political influence and the museums to interrupt or cut off the museum directors. Another criticism of the liberal opposition to the institution model is the fact that museums only gain legal personality when they give themselves a museum order. For this museum arrangement, individual museums have time until the year 2003 according to the corresponding season scheme. Noteing that in today's short-lived period this is an inadequately long period of time, even though you are now talking about an extension of the legislative period, it is recognized that the museum reform has been transferred to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day at least in subareas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another criticism is that this point is still not rehabilitated and at the same time constitutes a violation of the principle of legality, which is laid down in the law that either one or two managing directors should be used. This is a clear violation of the principle of legality, because: Who determines whether to use one or two managing directors? Does that help depending on the size, the square meters of exhibition space or the number of employees? It is an undetermined concept of law. This clearly violates the principle of legality, as Professor Öhlinger also confirms. – All this leaves you cold, that’s not very interesting for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The curators – a clear proporz model: six black and three control curators of SPÖ. Really a relapse to the times of the deepest black and red proportion!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19668	The next speaker is Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Krüger! I no longer know what the state's influence on state museums should be limited at all. How, then, do the liberals want to make their requests in the future, if no one is responsible for them at all? – We want to ban the niche. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We want to ban the mill. We want to ban Jelinek. The theatre director is responsible, the Federal Minister is responsible for this. What else are you doing? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Control!]] [[Call the Freeman: Turn away money!]] - All right, I know. Turn money off. Yeah, it's okay! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: We want the Morak!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You know exactly that's not my position!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - It's not yours. But you're not all alone in your group, you know that. Not yet! The original situation: The museums were more or less subordinated to the ministry until 1988. That had advantages, that had disadvantages. I would just like to mention the reliability, care and security of money here. But, of course, it also had something of compulsiveness and slowness. It is no longer modern – it has also been recognized. The scheme of dissemination is not a private-law society – i.e. a GesmbH that is aimed at profit – but it has proved very quickly that another regulation in dealing with the museums is more appropriate. I would like to quote here the Öhlinger and more Corinth quoted by you. They have voted in favour of an institution of public law because it affects conservation and research as well as, in part, non-university research institutions, in the fields of art history, architecture, natural sciences and technical development, as well as the associated auxiliary sciences such as restoration and new conservation techniques. Austria has a good reputation to defend. Because of these special tasks, the Federal Government has decided today – hopefully also the Parliament will do it – for a public-law institution. The partial right introduced in 1988 has enabled individual areas to become competitive. It has given the museums the opportunity to break out of the districts of the dusted cultural temples and partly of the public hostility – I remember very carefully – and to become new, modern exhibition and communication centres. The new path, which started in 1988 with the partial right, has proved itself in large parts. Now is the next step. What has brought about partial justice? – Better numbers of visitors, better exhibitions in the sense of greater attractiveness of the exhibitions, the new exhibitions and the new suspensions, important publications of these museums, new purchases – also by means of partial rights, which is noted here. Justice is therefore a logical continuation and certainly not – in this I want to give Krüger a right – the last step on the journey of the Federal Museums. That means first of all: The Republic confesses itself to its museums and to the responsibility it carries for the museums. Secondly, it means extending the positive possibility of partial justice to all areas of museums, as I have already said. Thirdly, there is the resolution of the financial conduct from the camera list with an effective controlling instrument. Fourthly, this represents a far greater autonomy of the directors of the houses and greater flexibility. Financially, the whole thing is secured. That's already in the law, and there's an escape clause. I would just like to say: The ingredients for better economics and for more market in this area are present, with this law being laid the foundation stone for this. The employees, the directors and the directors only need to benefit from them and prove a new quality in the management of these houses. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19809	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19830	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, with the present Federal Museum Act, the Federal Government is playing the chance of an effective and lasting reform. Because what you will decide for the most part today is defective and unfortunately does not meet the requirements of a modern, comprehensive museum policy. Rather, this is the result of a moderate coalition compromise! Ladies and gentlemen! The shortcomings have been clearly and already mentioned, most recently in the Committee on Culture. The announced objectives, i.e. more personal responsibility of museums, more scope for action and administrative simplification, will not be achieved by this law. On the contrary: In the light of the relevant legislative bodies, it is clear that, as Mr Krüger has already said, the influence of the federal government is not reduced but strengthened. Because in the future, the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs will have to approve all the essential points. Ladies and gentlemen! The potential for saving this alleged structural reform is also not recognizable. The administrative equipment, both in the museums and in the ministry, will be preserved at least in relation to 1: 1. The Federal Minister did not even dispute what her ministry was all about. The dual track in the personnel sector and the establishment of the board of trustees and the integration of auditors will cost extra costs. The Court of Auditors has also made a critical comment on these additional costs. What accounts for the shortcomings of this law? – The failure to consult the museum directors concerned with this draft law may be an explanation. In any case, there are two letters in which the directors express this. The too short assessment period of just eight days may be another reason for this. Ladies and gentlemen! This sheds an interesting light on your understanding of democracy and on your willingness to discuss. Mrs. Federal Minister! If it is literally stated in a statement by the Director of the Museum of Art: With the planned basic fee, a proper operation of the museum after its general renovation and expansion in 2002 cannot be financed, then, as I think, all the alarm bells should cry out! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it would have been better if the law on summer had been more detailed and revised and presented in a new version in autumn for decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19881	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19906	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I welcome the current Federal Museum Act, which makes the Austrian Federal Museums a scientific institution of public law with its own legal personality. This form of organization, which is linked to the positive experience gained with the partial right, is now creating the conditions for our museums to present modern and customer-oriented. I also welcome the choice of a model which allows for the scope of design and increases the autonomy of the individual museums, but without completely removing the influence of the Federal Ministry of Education and Art. I am basically different from my colleague Krüger on this point of view. I insist that the responsibility must continue to remain with the Ministry, because there are invaluable values with the collection material in the museums for the Republic of Austria and because it also involves a cultural contract. It is necessary that relevant social developments in the field of technology continue in the future – by the way, I would like to ask in this context: What about the Technical Museum? I mean, right now we would need its opening! – which are taken up by natural sciences and the arts and made understandable and accessible to a broad public. This is very important to us! That is why the state is investing a lot of money in this area, and that is why the policy here should continue to keep the leadership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are the main objectives of this reform? – As has already been said, more opportunities for self-initiative, more autonomy in the cultural and artistic field, economic independence in personnel and budget issues, thus also increasing mobility and, in conjunction with it, better use of resources and more efficiency. I would now like to mention three points which were particularly important to the Socialist Group and which we have therefore advocated in this law. Firstly, the law also formulated a cultural policy mission for the Federal Museums. I would like the Austrian museums to develop their own image and identity more than before, thus becoming unmistakable, as is the case with the Guggenheim Museum or with the Secession. I think there are very good and positive approaches to this. Previously, the Volkskundemuseum was addressed: Of course, this very small museum has no very large budget. But for example, with the Bhutan exhibition, this evening an exhibition was successful, through which this museum became known beyond the borders of Austria. For the first time, it has succeeded in bringing exhibits from the Kingdom of Bhutan to Austria or even to the West. This has been achieved because there is good cooperation in the area of development cooperation between the Kingdom of Bhutan and Austria. I'm very happy about that. Of course, our museum of folklore cannot compete with a museum of folklore in Amsterdam, but it can set accents very well, and it also sets them! I would like to give you a good example. The Art History Museum is important for a certain time horizon, especially for the art of the Dutch. With 1.45 million visitors, a visitor record was achieved at the Brueghel exhibition. This exhibition attracted a lot of audience from abroad. A tradition has continued: The museum itself has one of the most important collections of Brueghel and has become increasingly accepted in the context of this exhibition on this subject. I mean, we need museums as places of living encounter. In this context, consideration should be given to appropriate opening hours and appropriate prices for people who do not have very high incomes. These questions must be addressed in the future. You have to deal with new content and sometimes also overcome the purely museum character. The director of the Sigmund-Freud Museum, whom I would like to address as a particularly attractive museum, Mrs Scholz-Straßer, has formulated this very aptly. She said: A museum, it may also be so lively, dynamic, didactic, hypermodern and super attractive, remains a museum. In some areas, to stay with Sigmund Freud, scientific work is of great importance. The collection, on the other hand, remains of subordinate priority. The second point we have made is that, in the context of the reform of the museums, staff must also be involved, that curators and scientific staff should be involved in a new concept and also have a right of participation. Thirdly, we have insisted that Parliament should also be involved in the future discussion. That is what we have put forward in our own motion for a resolution in the Committee, which reaffirms this once again. In this sense, I am looking forward to a lively discussion of this subject in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19979	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e19997	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to start with a possible quote: It is forbidden to carry sticks, shields and bags to the museum. Children are not allowed to enter the house. Visitors are only required under special conditions, at quite certain hours. – ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References== At the end of the century, the Federal Museums with today's day will be able to adapt themselves to the collection, preservation, research and mediation of the federal stocks in a timely, efficient manner, not only to be afraid of visitors, but also to make an active effort to do so. The houses that have already been addressed today have come different with their directors in overcoming the defensive and will certainly have to take some steps or go. I think that we can all assume that a museum without visitors is a dead museum, a museum without scientific-theoretical-systematic work is actually an empty and hollow museum, and a museum whose direction is to get out without special presentation forms is a lame, motionless museum. Therefore, dear Joseph Cap, we must conclude: We need modern, active, invigorating museums in which, on the one hand, we are not afraid to allow cultural events – as it is so beautiful – to take place and invite, on the other hand, houses that do not hesitate to distance themselves from a certain overlying adventure orientation, and not give up on scientific work. I am glad that we have the promise confirmed by our committee discussions that there will be an evaluation of scientific work so that it can be maintained properly, efficiently and theoretically. The involvement of the collection leaders in the development of the museum regulations has already been addressed by Mrs. Col. Jäger. I would also like to mention that I am pleased that there is a target paragraph and that there is also a supporter in the board of trustees. The curatorium itself can also be further developed and expanded. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I try to briefly formulate the challenges: I think there is a danger that the ideals of the 1960s, knowledge and enlightenment will be lacking in an immediate society. For example, on my last visit with students in the museum, I was very sad that they could no longer clearly identify and assign certain classical images, works of art representing the art history of Central Europe. There is certainly a need for thought in this context! I think that at a time when U-valuability – as it is so beautiful – has to do with a certain flirting behaviour of the eternal tourists, it plays an important role that the signals of the "society" are understood and all these are kept in a mood and that "by-sleeping" is also expected from the museum. I think that the international entertainment machinery is creating an experience that the classic type of museum must fail and refuse under certain conditions. This does not mean, however, that the alternative currency should be: ==References== 19th century: Screens, bags, children and visitors are forbidden!, but that one resists radical economic entertainment, with competent directors, collection representatives, communicators and educators, that is, the temptation does not yield, which is called "happening factory". I mean, we are on this good path when we write down modern pedagogical programmes, but at the same time we are not in the trap of total pedagogicalization. With the law to be passed today on the emancipation of the museums as scientific institutions, a step is taken in the right direction, as it is so beautiful. We are going the way self-confidently and with the support of Mrs Minister and the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20046	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20064	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since Salzburg is closer to Munich than to Vienna, as a Salzburger one always shuddered with an eye to Munich and there observed the world of museums and exhibitions, but with the other eye after Vienna and observed the culture in Vienna. I believe that Munich has been the number one in Europe for a long time in the exhibition culture, although Vienna has in no way followed the existing art treasures of Munich. However, this began to change systematically at the end of the 1980s, not least because of the possibilities that we have created in two stages with the laws on the partial right of the federal museums. This development has been put to a conclusion by the fullness of the rule of law. Today, in my opinion, Vienna Munich has gone out of place. I am firmly convinced that today Vienna is the first place! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is why I believe this is so important, because art and culture have immense significance for us people. The Federal Museums are far beyond Vienna – and this seems to me very important – a cultural concern for everyone in Austria. This concern should grow to their heart – I am now saying this as a native Tyrolean. You know that Amras Castle belongs to the Art History Museum, and I would like to point out in this connection the groundbreaking Spanish exhibition, which took place in Amras Castle in 1992. – The Federal Museums have an outstanding meaning for the memory of Austria and thus for all our affairs! I would also like to point out very briefly the economic factor of museums, their economic strength and, in particular, their reciprocity. For example, because of the last Monet exhibition about 30 million Schilling have stayed in Vienna. In my opinion, when Maria Theresa stands between the Natural History and the Art History Museum, this indicates a holistic view of art and has a deep symbolism: on the one hand, nature in the Natural History Museum, in the middle of man in the form of Mary Theresia, on the other hand, the creative power in the Art History Museum. And what man is able to produce in a creative, adore act is positive, yes healing, on man. I would also like to say that as a doctor! I wish all those responsible for the museum that they can make the most of it. Many Austrians, especially young people, can be opened up access to this creative piece of Austria, which is also a piece of Austrian and European identity! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20115	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20134	Mr President. High house! I am pleased that today in the House of Lords the law will be passed, with which the Federal Museums will develop into scientific institutions. I would like to thank all those who have cooperated constructively in the discussion and continue to ask for your active support. I mean, with this law for the federal museums, we are putting very good tracks into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20164	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1338 of the Supplements. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this draft law show this by a sign. – The law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading give a sign on this point. I note that the draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1338 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this resolution, as it is annexed to the Committee's report, withdraw from the seats. . I note that the resolution has been adopted by the majority. (E 135.) 17. Point Report of the Jusitz Committee on the Government Template (1083 and 1083 of the Supplements): Extradition agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America (1343 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20227	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for reporting. The first speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20255	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The extradition agreement between Austria and the USA is truly a challenging issue. In order to be able to measure this properly, we also need to go back to the history of this House. I have a question here to the Federal Minister for Justice, in which the composition of the authors is historically not uninteresting: This is a question by Dr. Heide Schmidt and Dr. Harald Ofner, to which one can see that she has been behind for some time – but not for that long –, she is from 1992 and had the following content: "The Supreme Court of the United States took place on 15 May. In the case of a Mexican doctor, on June 1, 1992, the US Government decided that the persons abroad may abduct persons against the will of the government there for the purpose of criminal prosecution to the United States. The Chairman of the Court of Justice has stated that a kidnapping is also permitted under the extradition contract, as well as torture, because it would not be expressly excluded in the Treaty." – That was not 1892, but 1992! The Schmidt, Ofner question to the Minister of Justice said at the time: "Is the "delivery agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States a ban on kidnapping and torture? How do you assess the existing extradition contract from the point of view of the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States? Do you, in particular, consider the protection of Austrian citizens from kidnappings and tortures? Will you announce the extradition contract on behalf of the Republic of Austria or initiate a renegotiation: if no, why not?" – In 1992, extradition and torture were permitted, according to the Supreme Court of the USA. The Federal Minister for Justice Michalek – that is, the same as today – replied as follows: "This" – the then "delivery contract contains... no explicit prohibition of kidnapping or torture. The Supreme Court of the United States of America, in the case of United States v. Alvarez-Machain, held six to three votes in favour, that the violent abduction of an accused to the United States does not constitute an obstacle to the prosecution of that person. An accused person cannot be prosecuted in the United States only if the extradition contract to be applied had been violated. However, if an extradition contract does not expressly prohibit the violent abduction of an accused person, the American court could exercise its jurisdiction over the accused. The Supreme Court of the United States of America only had to assess whether the extradition treaty to be applied had been infringed, but not whether the violent abduction would have disregarded generally recognised principles of international law. Nor could these general principles of international law be used to interpret an extradition contract." – As far as the Austrian Minister of Justice is concerned. It concludes: "Austria has been negotiating a new extradition agreement with the United States of America since 1987." – This is the one we have for treatment today. It is also said in the answer – and this is particularly interesting – : "With regard to the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States of America mentioned above, the Austrian side will now be required to include a contractual provision in the new extradition contract, according to which the abduction of an accused by force or list to the United States for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement constitutes a violation of the extradition contract." – As far as the very well-founded promise of Michalek at the time. Now we have the new contract. And are kidnapping or torture excluded from the new contract? – No, they are not excluded! I think this is an intolerable result! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a modest desire. That is why I still agree with the remark that the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States is, in fact, scandalous from the point of view of the rule of law. And the fact that we have not succeeded in drawing the announced consequences and in achieving that the new Treaty is being adapted accordingly is, in a sense, an evidence of poverty for the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20342	The motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Ofner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Schwimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20366	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to Mr Ofner, I no longer fully understand the attitude of the FPÖ towards the United States. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why?]] Mr Ofner makes the conclusion of a treaty with the United States dependent on the call on the United States to comply fully with international law in an exchange of letters. As if Mr. Ofner, as a lawyer, would only conclude a contract with someone else if he added that he would comply with the laws! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Mr Ofner knows as well as I do that this was an individual case, not a secure case of the Supreme Court of the United States, and in relation between Austria and the United States such a case has never occurred at all! At the same time, however, I read in the "Washington Post" yesterday that the party observer of the FPÖ has been fooled into the United States, in her swinging, open system and her capitalist wisdom. But a treaty can only be concluded with this country if it states in particular that it complies with international law! I don't think more absurd is going on anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will agree to this extradition agreement for three good reasons. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't have to blame us for insanity!]] Firstly, because then there are very clear mutual extradition obligations. How important such extradition obligations are, we currently see in the case of Rosenstingl, because such extradition contract with Brazil does not exist. It is therefore important to have such an extradition contract. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, because this extradition treaty clearly states that Austria does not need to extradite its own citizens, and thirdly, in my view, that is a particular reason - because it has achieved a real breach of drought. [[Abg. Scheibner: In such a speech there seems to be only polemics of you!]] Everyone knows the pitiful attitude of the United States on the death penalty. I condemn the attitude that exists in the United States on the death penalty. The extradition contract makes it clear that no Contracting State is obliged to extradite, first if the act is threatened with death and if one does not waive the death penalty, and second, if, if the death penalty is already imposed, its execution is not waived. [[Abg. Boy: He's right! Did you sleep?]] These are very clear provisions in accordance with our human rights understanding and in accordance with our rejection of the death penalty. That is why there are good reasons to agree to this agreement in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20463	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that the request for a debate in connection with the request for a committee of inquiry to clarify political and legal responsibility in the BBU scandal has been withdrawn, so that the debate does not take place. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Damage!]] However, we will be voting on the proposal very well afterwards. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Now we have collected the material for nothing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not in vain, but in vain!]] I now give the floor to Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20522	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria and the United States of America signed a treaty a long time ago – already in 1930 – on which extradition between these states is based. An additional agreement was concluded in 1934. However, the application of this extradition contract has led to difficulties in the past. Thus, evidence already received by the Austrian courts had to be repeated in order to comply with American formal regulations. These partly complicated rules of the Anglo-American law are fundamentally foreign to our European legal system. Moreover, sometimes the acquisition of knowledge of the standard to be applied could be a very difficult matter. For ten years now, there has been – often difficult – negotiations with the USA to bring about a revision of the extradition agreement. The differences in views of our different legal cultures were clearly demonstrated in these negotiations – especially, ladies and gentlemen, on the important issue of the death penalty. It is precisely this question that I have to answer as a Social Democratic: I reject the death penalty in principle and believe that it is an absolutely inappropriate but, above all, inhuman instrument of criminal law policy. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the United States of America is happy to represent itself as the leading democracy and guardian of human rights all over the world. It is difficult to reconcile this image with the fact that in most States of the US there is not only the death penalty, but that it is expressed to a very high extent and unfortunately also, as we know, executed. I am therefore very concerned that the resistance of American society to this cruel punishment is relatively weak. Ladies and gentlemen! Judgments are taken by people, and there is evidence that there are also misjudices in the case law. How tragic it is to learn in retrospect that an unjustly convicted person has been led to execution and killed! The death penalty must definitely be rejected because it clearly contradicts the humanitarian attitude of a highly civilized society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against the death penalty is a struggle that must be fought around the world and that should be driven forward by us Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But not at 23:00!]] Austria has often taken a pioneering role in these efforts in the past. I would like to remind you here of the tireless activities of former Minister of Justice Dr. Christian Broda, who has also received a high award from the Council of Europe for these activities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the US's extremely harsh attitude to the death penalty, it is a great success for Austria that the United States has clearly declared itself ready and committed itself in this Treaty to waive the imposition and enforcement of the death penalty in the event of any extradition by the Republic of Austria. We must thank all the participants in the negotiations on our side for having achieved a result on this important and sensitive issue, which is a significant improvement compared to the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened recently has proved once again that adequate and practical extradition procedures can be very important for our state. Unfortunately, economic crime is increasing more and more, so it is very important that fiscal criminal acts such as ordinary crimes are now also treated and are also subject to extradition. However, it is sufficient for the documents to give rise to the reasoned assumption that the person to be supplied had committed the acts in charge of it. The new extradition treaty continues to be based on the principles of the European Extradition Convention, whose rules have now been adopted almost all the countries of Europe, so that they apply in these countries. High house! To sum up, I can say: The present extradition agreement is a significant progress in extradition between Austria and the United States. However, it is also evidence that the Austrian government is pursuing a consistent policy committed to human rights in the fight against the death penalty. Our House, the National Council, should fully support this policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20580	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20609	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God there is no debate on the subject, because I would no longer have a speaking time. However, I regret that the criminal law change does not come – keyword: 209. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a convinced opponent of the death penalty, I was at first very skeptical of the extradition agreement and had planned to place a sign and not agree to it. I was voted by the gentlemen - and this is what we have to say in this case, and not the ladies and gentlemen - of the Ministry and also of Mr Fuhrmann, that there is a much more important argument and that Article 8 of this extradition agreement can be a sign of the respect for the death penalty in the USA. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: But also from me!]] I would like to say to Mr Ofner that I do not fully understand why this is so upset. If it is a matter of keeping this up in the way – and its interpretation leads to that – then I wonder: Who's hurting? – It can only be useful for the event, if this case – which I hope will never happen – should ever occur. That is why I shall, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. On the other items on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen – now the speaking time is really over –: ==References== Euro-Justice Act gives the Greens their consent, including the others who are no longer here, the Takeover Act and the two Conventions of Civil Law and the Convention on Enforcement, which I think is a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: I can't do that! If they are no longer there, they can no longer agree!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] A last word on the non-treatment of the more severe punishment of sexual child abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a model example – not the Federal Minister responsible for it, but the two government groups – for the inability of the coalition parties in Parliament to act in concrete, content-based, essential things. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The speaking time has been over for a long time!]] And affected...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20676	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The speaking time is over. Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20697	The affected faces do not make this circumstance bet.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20727	Mr Vanner has now spoken for the second time, with a speaking time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20749	I have saved a minute; now I have to consume it. I read again from the 1992 response to the question: "With regard to the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States of America mentioned above, the Austrian side will now be required to include a contractual provision in the new extradition contract, according to which the abduction of an accused by force or list to the United States for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement constitutes a violation of the extradition contract." Surely a modest desire and a natural announcement! Unfortunately, the realization is missing.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20784	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Michalek, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20805	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the new regulation has a significant improvement over the current legal situation in extradition between the USA and Austria. In view of the fact that the provisions of the Convention on the extradition of own nationals and the refusal of extradition have repeatedly led to misunderstandings because of the death penalty, I would like to stress once again that, of course, these provisions in the international field are without impact on the provisions of the must-have in the national field. According to § 12 of the ARHG, the extradition of own nationals is prohibited by constitutional law, and in accordance with Article 85 B-VG, 6. Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and ultimately § 20 ARHG is not allowed to be extradited in the event of a serious death penalty. As far as Mr Ofner's resolution is concerned, I share his view on the decision taken by the Supreme Court of the United States at that time. This has also been hit by unilateral rejection internationally. But she remained single, there was no other case like this. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Mr. Federal Minister! Tolerance: What does that mean "individual"? – I understand Noriega and Panama!]] There have sometimes been different opinions in the extraditional relations between the Republic of Austria and the USA. They have always been done on a international basis. There is therefore no reason between us and the US to assume that the US is acting contrary to international law. Mr Ofner! I believe that it was not really necessary, therefore, to reach a provision in this international treaty, which provides for a legal order to be followed in the event that the contracting party infringes international law by abduction from Austria. This has not been possible in this international treaty, and the alternative would have been simply not to enter into a new treaty at all. However, this would have brought us into a much worse situation than the present situation. I believe that the future legal situation is quite beneficial and does not allow the fears expressed here. It would not be a useful measure to terminate this Treaty or the old Treaty. Then, between Austria and the USA, there were only legal bases under international law. According to the practice of the USA – they reject extradition on the basis of reciprocity – a completely unsustainable state would arise for Austria, because the USA would become a sort of safe place of refuge for criminals subject to the criminal court in Austria, since extradition from the USA to Austria would not be possible at all and, in many cases, the US would reject the punishment of foreign crimes by foreign citizens at all. I therefore believe that the solution adopted by this Treaty is a milestone and a quantum leap in international extradition relations, which will be a model for further international extradition agreements with countries still familiar with the death penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20845	There is no more word message for this. This debate is closed. The report does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1083 and to 1083 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the approval, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The majority of the approval shall be made. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Vanner and others on the addition of the extradition agreement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. 18. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1203 of the Supplements): 1. Euro-Justice Act – 1. Euro-JuBeG (1344 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20909	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a contribution by the honourable Member Mag. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Euro-Justice Act certainly has some advantages and some positives, so the introduction of the item shares without nominal value or the abolition of court fees and notarial costs during the conversion phase. But it also has some disadvantages. I would like to point out this very briefly. The problem seems to me to be § 1, in which the replacement of the discount and Lombard interest rate is provided for by a basic interest rate which is not yet exactly known and which is not yet defined. This requires a regulatory authority to be amended afterwards. I believe that this is a problem both in the implementation and in legal policy. The same applies to a number of other provisions, such as § 5. It shows that the banks have once again enforced themselves, because, in addition to crediting in euro or Schilling, Swiss-Franken-Kreite is permitted, but not in yen, dollar and so on. This is simply a bad compromise, which we cannot give the consent. To criticise further provisions would now lead to too far, since unfortunately I do not have enough time to speak. Therefore, in short: We are not going to give our approval to this proposal, and I am seeking to understand it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e20973	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21003	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the euro still requires adjustments in the field of justice. These adjustments concern, in particular, company law, but also clarifications in the context of the basic book. Interesting is the introduction of non-valued shares in the Austrian Stocks Act, which is not due to the euro changeover, but is nevertheless prompted. In any case, hold on: As this does not mean a currency reform, but a currency changeover, nothing changes the effectiveness of contracts and legal instruments. Mr Firlinger! I believe that the security of account is particularly important for the provision of the replacement of the discount rate, to which many contracts today, but also regulations, refer through the basic interest rate. The citizen can be sure that the changeover does not mean any effect on his legal relations. I am particularly pleased that it has succeeded in finding a solution to the problem of double pricing during the transitional period. Entrepreneurs are required to inform consumers accordingly in the case of long-term contracts. If they do, then a statement of schilling and euro is only in the final amount. This procedure can also serve as a model for other areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Euro-Justice Act enables the judicial sector to enter the transition phase in a well-prepared manner. However, this law also brings security to citizens that their legal relations are not affected by the changeover of currencies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21043	The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21067	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Government's main objective is that the introduction of the euro should not lead to any change in the value ratios. We create with the 1st. Euro-Justiz-Beglittgesetz all relevant legal requirements in company law and in commercial law. As has already been said, it should be possible to establish capital companies in euro and to draw up balance sheets in euro. We also create conditions under share law for capital increases and for the issue of non-valued shares. We also create the necessary conditions for basic book entries. In particular, however, in my view, this change in currency represents a major change for consumers. We will all have to get used to and deal with the new currency, especially the new sizes. Therefore, for the conversion period – at least three months before and during the conversion period – consumer protectionists demand double pricing, so that consumers get the new big-scale relationships, so to speak, or feel them. I think it is about double pricing for all goods, not only for the small part I see when I look at the comprehensive exception catalogue of the economy. This applies, of course, particularly to contracts concluded during the transitional period and over the 31st century. In December 2001, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European It is precisely where the consumer's long-term ties are concerned that contracts are already in place from 1. January 1999 mandatory in Schilling and Euro. Examples are rental contracts, interest purchases or subscriptions. This is about transparency and comparisons. We all understand here in this House that the euro changeover must not lead to hidden price increases. We must therefore give consumers the possibility of comparison and control. I think that legal certainty in the course of currency changeover will ensure a transparent, simpler and more understandable transition to the new currency, thus strengthening the confidence of Austrians to the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21113	The Federal Minister for Justice has now come forward. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the euro also requires a number of changes in the field of justice, such as in the field of judicial administration, arrangements for adapting the IT structure, formalities, court fees, fees and costs. It will be necessary to adapt to 100 legislation. These are essentially the replacement of schilling amounts by euro amounts. This will only be in 2001 – with effect from 1 January 2001. January 2002 – will take place. In some respects, however, it is recommended, already for the beginning of monetary union, that is, with 1. January next year to provide for civil law monitoring provisions. The focus is on corporate and commercial law, in particular the introduction of the euro billing and capital resources of the capital companies in euro. However, these decisions are not re-octroyed to companies, but the principle that applies everywhere in the EU applies for the transitional period: neither compulsory nor disability. I think that the proposed legal framework as a whole will contribute to facilitating the Austrian economy to address the challenges of the European internal market and also to dispersing the fear of the unknown euro in the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21170	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report will not be desired. We shall proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1344 of the Supplements. This draft contains constitutional provisions. It is therefore first of all — I have now explicitly examined this again — that the necessary quota is available and that half of the Members are present here. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. I expressly note that the constitutional quota of the two-thirds majority of votes cast is present. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who at third reading agree to the draft to give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority, with the constitutional quota, at third reading. 19. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1276 of the Supplements): Federal Act on Takeover Offers (Lecture Act) as well as amendments to the Stock Exchange Act and the Introductory Act on Administrative Procedures 1991 (1345 of Supplements) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 134/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a federal law that amends the law on limited liability companies, the Federal Act on Stock Corporations and the Act on Employment and Economic Cooperation (1346 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21250	We now come to points 19 and 20 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: (in the direction of Members in their surroundings) I am tired of being insulted by you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: I am satisfied that I am condoned by the colleagues here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will be able to... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Neither the SPÖ nor the ÖVP must I please!]] [[Abg. Leikam: The question was asked whether there is only one Member there!]] [[Further calls.]] Mrs Stoisits! I have not heard of this right now, but we will still be putting the rest of today's session on stage in a quite orderly order. Oral reporting has not been desired. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now beginning the debate. I'm giving Magnificence. Firlinger as the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21330	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of a suitable takeover law is a long-standing measure. However, I would have expected that this matter would be a somewhat more suitable compromise! I admit that the amendments that have been made at the last minute have brought qualitative improvements. However, in two points the template remains relatively much behind expectations. First: I think it would be good in the sense of equal rights if all shareholders were treated equally. Therefore, from our point of view, there should be no discount in the event of a dominant participation relationship. Secondly, The appointment of the committee of takeovers, which, according to the government's proposals, is partly made in a parity between members of the Chamber of Workers and members of the Chamber of Commerce, I think is simply a point of order! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an international ordering procedure! Therefore, I would like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want a proper right of takeover, I kindly ask you to support this request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21439	The amendment, the honourable Member. Firlinger has submitted a report on business rules, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mr Jarolim has now been reported to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21464	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by expressing the wish that the political groups will once again be able to give their contributions at the end of the agenda, and then, of course, under pressure of time, as part of the timing of the debates. The fact that it is supposed to go quickly is human understandable. However, problems arise when short summary statements have to be made in the last few minutes. I can say briefly on the right to take over: It is an exemplary law. It has already been announced that this law serves to significantly improve the conditions of the capital market in such a way that confidence-building measures are imposed on foreign investors, for those who invest widely in the various listed companies. This applies in particular to the area of the American and English pension funds. The political core with regard to the economic impact of the economy is the creation of an alternative to strategic movers and, ultimately, the creation of an alternative to that of Austrian decisions within Austria in the future, because such funds operate differently from strategic investors in terms of influence on companies. The law has been discussed for a long time, and various variants have been found. Finally, I think it is also positive that, under quotation marks, it has been "spected" in the form that the organisational structures – originally there was a Commission and an authority – have been brought together. There is now an authority which is responsible for a relatively broad spectrum and ensures maximum transparency in such transactions, both in the case of voluntary public takeover bids and in the field of obligations. I therefore believe that this is a significant step in the right direction. The fact that, in the final analysis, a regulatory authorisation will be provided to enable the Commission to determine the individual criteria in accordance with the framework laid down in the law will certainly be used to create quality in the sense that there are rules applicable to each individual case. I would like to conclude by thanking the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice, Professor Doralt, who has been supporting us for a long time, for the really great contribution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21507	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, for you there is still a one-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21528	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to announce the criticism I have made in the working group against the provisions of the obligations offered here as well: Mandatory offers are to be made if a controlling interest in the target company is to be acquired. My criticism is against the fact that the legislator has failed to define the conditions under which control participation is possible. In this way, hot iron will be passed on to a takeover commission in the form of a regulatory authorization. In my opinion, this is a legitimate misappropriation. Rather, the legislator should be able to determine the conditions under which control participation is to be held, and the Commission should decide in individual cases whether or not this controlling participation is actually acquired. We know from the syndicate agreements et cetera that, under special circumstances, there is a duty to offer, since there are dominant influences.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21561	The next item is Mrs Fekter's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21582	Mr. Minister! Mr President. My dear colleagues! It is an uplifting of Parliament if we are being nailed here until midnight and are not present! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That at 3 p.m. a spectacle is held and then one goes home, we have always been used to it only by Mr. Haider. Now, however, the Liberal Forum and the Green Group are doing so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Stoisits! I would ask you to inform your absent colleagues about the rightful displeasure of colleagues present in this House. I propose that we put special action at the end of the agenda in the future. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the right of acquisition: I am glad that we have now set up a legal system. That's exemplary! In Germany and England, there is no such legislation. And I am also glad that we are getting a transparent and fair procedure through the takeover committee. It will be able to react more flexiblely than if we had set things up more rigidly in the law. I assume that the criteria will be set by 30 per cent at a fixed percentage, and I also believe that the further criteria which the Commission will lay down will be better adapted to Austrian conditions than if the legislator had been more rigid in this regard. With this law, we have made an exemplary arrangement, also in line with the EU standard. That is why I hope, Minister, that our law will become a model for an EU directive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21636	Federal Minister Dr. Michalek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21658	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to ask you to pay a little attention to this item on the agenda. I believe that this law is a milestone in the development of social and capital market law and that, together with the stock law adapted to EU law, the Securities Supervision Act and the recently updated Stock Exchange Act, we now have truly modern social and capital market conditions that meet the needs of investors for security and fairness, thereby promoting and facilitating the provision of capital for Austrian companies. I too would like to thank Professor Doralt for the infinite support he has given us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The general rules of play for all takeover bids to expire in fair conditions in the future were not controversial. Controversy, on the other hand, has been discussed for a very long time with regard to the two points which have already been raised today, namely: When is there a controlling participation, and at what price is the assignment to be made? . I believe that it is well justified to leave the question to be assessed very much according to the circumstances of the individual case, when there is a controlling participation, a dominant influence, a regulation by regulation, as this may be much more flexible. With regard to the price, it was essentially a question of whether the minority shareholders should also be involved in the so-called control bonus or package surcharge. In this respect, there has been a compromise between the interests of minority shareholders on the one hand and the interests of the majority shareholders often found in Austrian stock companies, or at least core shareholders, in particular those who have acquired their participation in a package award themselves. The discount of 15 percent is not mandatory. This discount may be reduced or completely eliminated in the statutes. In this context, therefore, there will certainly be a "competition of the statutes". This law on takeover will bring Austria – and I really want to stress this – to the top of the European states with a balanced and sophisticated right of takeover. The step is also of European importance: Against the background of this Takeover Act, during our Presidency we can continue negotiations on the proposal for a Takeover Directive more credible than without national legislation. Even if this is a framework directive, it will require a certain amount of adjustment, but this is what we are consciously buying and what the first time a takeover right is to be introduced in Austria in the proposed form should not be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21712	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report has not been required. We are therefore entering the voting process. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1345 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Firlinger and comrades submitted an amendment or additional request. I shall therefore first vote on those parts of the draft which are affected by the amendment or supplementary proposal, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning Art. I. 26 para. 1 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Whoever agrees may give a sign. . The text of the Committee's report has been adopted by a large majority. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning species. I § If you agree to this amendment, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is to give a sign? . This part has been adopted by a majority of the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning species. I § 28 para. 2 introduced. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. We are now voting on this part of the draft as part of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part was adopted by a majority in the Committee's report. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph. 2a in Art. I § 28. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning species. I § 28 para. 3 second sentence. Whoever is in favour of this amendment may give a sign. – This is the minority. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part was adopted by a majority in the Committee's report. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees may give a sign of consent. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Those ladies and gentlemen who vote in third reading may be a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 1346 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report was received by a large majority. 21. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1232 of the Supplements): Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden In June 1980 in Rome for the signing of the Convention on the Law applicable to contractual debt and the First and Second Protocols on the interpretation of the Convention by the Court of Justice; and on the Government template (1231 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Private International Law and Consumer Protection Act (1347 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21853	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I don't have any word messages. A final word is not wanted by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1232 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this, may make this known by a sign. – This approval shall be granted unanimously. I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 Federal Constitutional Act that this Convention, with regard to its Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish, Spanish language texts, is to be made known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty, as it stands, should be applied. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Act by the adoption of laws to be complied with. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a sign. – This request was also adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1231 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This draft was adopted unanimously. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 22. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1285 of the Supplements): Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters and the Protocol on the interpretation of this Convention by the Court of Justice, as amended by the Agreement on the Accession of the Kingdom of Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Convention on the Accession of the Republic of Greece and the Agreement on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria to Article IV(2) of the Protocol to the Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters (1348 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21944	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. Oral reporting has not been required. There is no mention of words. There is no final word for reporting. We shall vote on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1285 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this approval to be a sign of approval. – The approval was granted unanimously: A unanimous vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 Federal Constitutional Act that this Convention, with regard to its Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions, must be made known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public inspection. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This request was adopted unanimously. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e21999	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Head and comrades on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on the Enlightenment of Political and Legal Responsibility in the BBU scandal. In the meantime, the request has been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22038	As I have already announced, the desire for a debate has been withdrawn. We shall therefore vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I declare that in the sense of § 66 para. 3 the Rules of Procedure were required to count and publish the votes against and against during this vote. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. I also ask the two writers Reitsam and Perfuss to come to my side and support me in the narration. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask those who are in favour of this request for the establishment of an investigation committee to have a sign of approval. – I announce the result of the narration: 19 votes in favour and 106 votes against. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22079	I declare that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made for 840/A to 844/A. Questions 4676/J to 4701/J were also raised. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00135_d7e22100	I note that Mr Rosenstingl did not appear at this meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Friday, 17 November. It will be called up in writing on July 1998. This meeting is closed.
