ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2692	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 123. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 121. Meeting of 14. ==References== ==References== In May 1998, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Deputies were reported Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Wenitsch, Amon, Dr. Schwimmer, Nuremberger, Schieder, Mag. Frieser and Dr. Mock. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2732	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the Members of Parliament Karl Leutgöbund Josef Trenkauf whom they are after the resignation of the appointed Hermann Mentilund Mag. Erich Schreiner waived mandates and, in her place, Mrs Anneliese Kleinand Mrs Susanne Rießin were appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate of the aforementioned ones and these are also present in the House, I will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formulas and by calling for a name by the scribe, the mandates will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I now ask the scribe, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and the name call and ask you to rise from the seats.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2777	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." Anneliese Klein!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2795	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2811	Susanne Rieß!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2826	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2841	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[Deputies take their seats again.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2875	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Mr Hannes Farnleitner, Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, is represented by Mr Martin Bartenstein. Ms. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrerwill be represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fasslevend. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e2913	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3120	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4460/J by Dr Gabriela Moserund Comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler concerning the failure to take measures and the remaining possibilities of the Federal Government against the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant in Slovakia. You are aware of the rules of procedure under which the urgent question will be dealt with at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3665/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3148	In addition, before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 3764/J by Mr Mag. The Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs for Foreign Affairs is responsible for providing emergency assistance to the principal and comrades. As we have just taken note of the urgent question put, it is clear that this brief debate will take place after the debate on the urgent question has been completed. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1100 and 1100 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1999 and Investments (1160 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3172	I am now entering the agenda, the subject of which is the Federal Finance Act for 1999 and the Annexes. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3195	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times for the political groups: SPÖ 135 minutes, ÖVP 126 minutes, Freedom 117 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, in any case State Secretary who would exceed 20 minutes, would be counted on the time of the respective government group. On this proposal, the House is to be found, and I therefore ask: Are there any objections? - That's not the case. This proposal has been adopted. Advisory Group VII Chapter 15: Social affairs Chapter 16: Social security Chapter 17: Health
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3245	We come to the negotiation of the Advisory Group VII: Social and health services. There is no need for reporting. That's what I'm going to get into the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3272	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's budget debate is the first item on the debate on the social, social and health issues. In this area, the debate is now taking place in an international scenario in which, according to the Federal Government, Austria is still in a good position, in which, in the opinion of the Austrian population and also in the opinion of most opposition parties, the environment is really very poor. The unemployment rate in Austria is unsatisfyingly high, the length of stay in unemployment is increasing steadily, while the Federal Government's efforts to eliminate youth unemployment have brought about an increase in the situation by about 500 apprenticeships from April 1997 to April 1998, but it has been found that, when compared with the exact figures of the funds spent, it is possible to find that for every job about ten times the average annual salary of an apprentice, and the success of the "parking operations" in the field of schools is more doubtful. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign as the noise level in the hall is high.]] For example, when you consider – my wife is known to be middle school professor at a BHS, at a Federal Trade Academy and Federal Trade School – that now the first classes of both the Federal Trade Academy and those of the Federal Trade School are suffering that about a third of the There, students are serving their time, but they are not really interested in reaching the teaching goal, so it can be derived from the fact that the results for the following years will be terrifying in the field of youth. In the international comparison already existing performance deficits and training deficits will be reinforced. Although billions will have been spent on the elimination of youth unemployment as a whole, this will only bring about a shift in the problem and not a real solution in the substance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, completely unsatisfying, Mrs Federal Minister, is the situation of employment of women and the employment of older workers in Austria. The international statistical figures in this field show: In Austria, the least people of all OECD countries are in the labour market for over 60 years, women's unemployment is rising, women's residence in unemployment is rising, women's immigration continues to take place in classical women's occupations. Such a change in the system in new, attractive and also in terms of better-doped women's jobs is simple and simple. It should be noted that the total unemployment rate will continue to stagnate by at least 7 per cent in 1997 – 7.1 per cent – and the economic growth rates projected by IHS, at least by 2002 by at least 2 per cent. The move to the early pension has been slightly reduced in Austria, but has not been inhibited in any way; the figures are increasing. The number of jobs in Austria, namely full-time jobs, is stagnant; 2,648,000 were, 2,638 000 are now. The increase in work is solely due to part-time work, and some 300,000 people in Austria are no longer able to make their earnings in the appropriate form with their work alone, but already have to make two or three jobs more frequent in order to have a reasonable income close to the poverty line at all. I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, that in this scenario, the declining figures of your budget, namely the percentages of both the social budget and the health budget and the budgetary approach for insurance, are not a good sign of the Austrian population. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I was shocked when I received from your ministry the written answer to my questions to you in the Committee on Budgets. If, for example, I think that you and your ministry must admit that the employment of doctors in federal hospitals is still not satisfactoryly regulated – in your own words: We have been able to achieve slight improvements, but the working time law for doctors is not yet fully implemented – I must say: This is an evidence of poverty for the enforcement not only of your ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister, but also of the essentially responsible two ministries, namely the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Finance. I think it is an intolerable state that, on the one hand, Mr Finanzminister has a Halali against the Austrian economy, but, on the other hand, he is in the area for which he is responsible and in which he has competence, the Austrian federal laws which this National Council has passed, such as that of medical employment, simply do not fulfil and does not enforce. I believe that these are states that are unworthy of a rule of law. Unfortunately, the costs – for revised doctors and revised care staff – must in very many cases pay the patients and, where financial repairs are possible, in the appropriate form also the contributors. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think you will have a lot to solve in your area in the future. The current analysis on the table is largely undisputed. What we Liberals have predicted in the adoption of the so highly praised new models – solidarity model and the like – is that the incentives are missing in order to ensure that this becomes relevant to the discharge of the labour market have unfortunately been clearly demonstrated in your surveys and questionnaire replies, Mrs Federal Minister. Because if you look at what you write in your own answer – I refer to the answer to 135/J of 29 May. April; I quote: So far, 77 people and the solidarity premium have been registered and charged for a replacement power due to the necessary changes in collective agreements or business agreements – it can be said that what has been hailed six months ago as new employment models for the discharge of the working world and for the fairer distribution of work has simply failed in practice and that unfortunately, the criticism of the lack of financial incentives of these models in the committees has been fully fulfilled in practice by the liberal, but also by the other opposition parties. We experience it again and again, Mrs Federal Minister, that requests from us Freemen, who, for example, under the title of "creating work, reducing taxes" have already been submitted here in the High House several times, have always been shaken by the Federal Government, then mostly heated up by the ÖAAB with a half a quarter of a year delay, and are proposed after five or six months as a repair – such as the reorganisation in the field of care fees, where now, if they are staying in hospitals, the care allowance is still to be paid for the payment of their caring families – which will then be followed by those intentions which have always led to meetings both the disabled associations and the liberal opposition here in the High House – in my opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to see in your area the proposals of our Liberals not always as unqualified ad acta, because in the past we have demonstrated clearly and clearly that we often think more of our proposals than the trade union concerned. I should like to remind you, for example, of the discussion at that time about the steel foundation in Styria. At that time, Mr Nürnberger, in the committee, said that we liberties should not take care of his clients to bring in, half a year later, those repairs in Parliament which we took into account in the decision-making process and also the labour market administration and the workers' chamber of Styria in the decision-making process. I believe that the Austrians concerned have not deserved that ideological policies in the social field be pursued, but they have deserved that a serious social policy to combat unemployment in Austria is finally addressed by this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3365	The next speaker is Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3390	Mr President. Mrs. Bundesmini-sterin! Ladies and gentlemen! Expenditure on the social and social policy chapters – almost 158 billion schilling – has a share of 20.6 percent in the general budget. Of these, only 1 per cent is in personnel expenditure, 99 per cent of which are physical expenditure. These figures are a good testimonie for Austria in the international comparison. In the labour market, the targeted birth rate is almost 57 billion schilling. Labour market policies account for 37.4 percent of total expenditure in Chapters 15 and 16. There were already higher amounts for active labour market policies in 1998 to ensure co-financing from ESF funds. In addition, 0.5 billion schilling for active labour market policies is planned for 1999. In addition, a 1 billion schilling is planned for passive services and additional funding for youth employment. For the years 1998 and 1999 it is 1.5 billion schilling to carry together from the budgets of social affairs and education. The support is based on an average of 299 500 service providers. Why do I say that? – I would like to address the "press hour" of last Sunday, in which we were again talking about a basic guarantee, of the "popular" basic security. It was said of an amount of 8,000 s and of a possibility of award with appropriate grinding arrangements. Now I'm asking: What employer would then pay even more than the limit of these benefits? That's the question! What sounds so frightful at the beginning would not be necessary for the state to finance, and it could not be legally guaranteed to the Not to be able to interrupt any change again. (Completed xxx)I would just like to refer to the apprenticeship promotion in which there was the same problem: Assurance for an attitude in July, which was then withdrawn. In October, when there was funding to work out, the young people were reintroduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Indisputably, we need an offensive, creative employment policy and a shift from production to service. The whole social system depends on the success of this policy. We must go to the point of bringing more of the added value into the system, without any further burden on additional labour costs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is just five months since we discussed the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act here. The reform has responded to new forms of work, to changed work biographies and to demographic development accordingly. Here, too, there was a fundamental guarantee. I remember Mr Feurstein's question, who wanted to know who would pay pension contributions in the future. – She remained unanswered to this day. On the criticism that we had an expensive system and the level of pension at the poverty line, I would like to say that: I had an experience just yesterday. A man came to me with his pension note from Switzerland. He worked 40 years in Switzerland, Germany and Austria, a third of this time in Switzerland, and that was the time when he earned the most. And you know what he gets now? – About 2,000 s he gets from the Swiss. He spent one third of his lifetime in Switzerland, and one sixth of his pension, which is already low, he receives from the Swiss. I should like to make a personal assessment of this question. We have always spoken about an independent pension scheme for women. I believe all the parties agree that we must tackle this. We have already done a lot about this. However, I also recall the excitement with regard to the involvement of minor employees in social security. It was especially the care providers who said they needed four to five assistants to buy. There was talk of exploitation. I also read in the minutes: It was about an hourly wage of 30 to 50 s for these assistants. I ask you: What's the exploitation? – Maybe you should have gone more in the direction of benefits in kind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another sentence on the care allowance. I compared the figures for 1998 and 1999: 16.65 billion Schilling 1998, 17.15 billion Schilling 1999. The novelles, which are currently under review, are made poor, length times width is made poor. If it were as it is claimed, then there could be no increase, then the figures would certainly be declining. Another word on social security. In 1995, there was a decline of 2.2 billion schilling. Reform measures were adopted in 1996. In 1997, there was a surplus of 1.5 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The demands on this surplus are more than scurry. We must be glad that the reform measures have taken such quick action. But I'm just telling you what was read in the Salzburger Nachrichten. If we had not managed to produce surpluses, we would have been talking about a catastrophic mismanagement. In the case of balanced budget, it would have been said that one could not be able to do anything. And now, of course, there is talk of an enrichment on the back of people. But in view of a performance of 300 million schilling a day, this surplus would only last for five days. Let us just think of the possibility of a simple flu epidemic, which would in principle be of little importance, but could have disastrous consequences on the budget. – I call this responsible economy. A word of solidarity: We should not go between the parting and the non-participative. I am thinking of the discussion under the title "social hammock". We must ensure the prosperity of our state by revitalizing the idea of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3474	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3495	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Reitsamer has kept her comments very short today. This will surely streamline the debate. Many words have already been changed in the social question, but an absolute standstill is still to be established. The budget we are negotiating today is a continuation of the 1998 budget, which ultimately means that the government seems to believe that the reforms had already taken place. I say from this pult with all the clarity: The need for reform is at least as high as two, three, five or ten years ago when this coalition began its work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Reitsamer! The shortness of your remarks is a clear indication for me – and I say that again – that you are obviously not prepared or interested in really dealing with the reform measures that are still ahead of us. It is a pity that you also beautify to such an extent what has happened so far. For what is to be said about the model of solidarity is the answer to a question by your colleague, Mr Guggenberger, by the Federal Minister. The answer to the question was no more than the answer to the question. May 1998: Previously used zero! – That is, there appears to be a need for action. In reply to the question, Mrs Bundesminister points out that there is such a need for an advance period. – I say: All right, that's illustrious. But I ask from this point of view: You didn't think it was necessary for the contract arrangement to take place? There you have thrown thousands into the cold water and at the same time caused serious damage due to legal uncertainty and the impossibility of free development. The solidarity premium model requires an advance period. – The argument comes when something does not take effect. Then you argue that it takes longer. Indeed, they should have done more information work on how the division of working time between two or more people should work. It is quite similar with the educational career. The same answer to the question: 35 people have taken advantage of this opportunity since the educational career was introduced. Do you think that this is a contribution to really solving the problem? – The use of this possibility is a very sympathetic alternative for these 35 people. We too believe that this is a real path. But you have organized it in such a way that it can hardly be used. Therefore, for the real problem of unemployment, where it is not two-digit, but six-digit figures, that is, hundreds of thousands, it is only of very limited benefit. Do not pretend, therefore, that the reforms have already taken place! They're just ahead of us. Where you have partly reformed, for example in the field of care money, you have done exactly the opposite of what you say here, Mrs Reitsamer: You have taken back benefits, and you have taken them back so systematically that you can now appear as if you were multiplying them. But if you first cut back dramatically, then it's easy to pretend that you've increased something. Only if you drag the balances over a longer period, you see that the curve is falling. It's mainly about the trends. In this case, in connection with the regulation of the insurance obligation of minor employees, you have made exactly the same mistake, in which you should not have been able to beat. Mrs Reitsamer! If you say from this point of view that the hourly wage is moving in the range of 30 s, you also know what that is about. This is not because the disabled, who ultimately pay an hourly wage of 30 s, are exploiters, exploitors, but because too little money is available. [[Abg. Traveler: Mobile services!]] If you then call for this to be replaced by benefits in kind, you would have to say that these benefits per hour cost about 5 000 to 6 000 s. You know that very well! Ask your deputy mayor Laska, who has just told us this. She said that if we really wanted to have a serious care with the resources of the authorities in the magistrate, that would mean an effort of between 80 000 and 100 000 S per day for the individual. I wonder where we came from, if you can't imagine it any more than that it is self-organized. But self-organized care services at 30 s per hour, which is actually a little steep. I believe that you are right on this point. It is unfair that there should be only 30 s per hour. (Completed xxx)But there can be no more than 30 S if you simply have too little money at your disposal for the necessary care services. That's so simple. If you have expressed a certain care effort in hours and divide the care allowance through the appropriate hours, you will see that no more than 30 s will come out. This is, of course, unbearable. You're right on this point. But you can't blame those who can no longer pay for the lack of money, but you have to address it to your own address and ask yourself if there are too many obstacles to self-organized care. That's what I'm saying quite clearly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Why do you hinder nursing societies? Why Obstacle You self-organized care systems? Go to Bremen or Sweden, look at this! These are additional possibilities. One cannot and must not leave everything exclusively to the official areas in this field. That the AMS once again – this time the amount has significantly increased – pays 7.7 billion schilling to the compensation fund for pensions, you do not mention that properly. This is certainly something that is useful for the compensation fund or for pensions, but which you can only sell as an active labour market policy. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You know the reason for this!]] That's why you don't mention it. And I mean, if the compensation fund for pensions needs money, then the question arises: Does this have to come from active labour market management? In fact, the really unpleasant, almost embarrassing side effect is that at first a relatively high budget appears in the AMS area, which is what people are looking forward to. Then it turns out that 7.7 billion schillings were only decorative at all because they went directly into the compensation funds of pensions. And I criticize this on most of the matters – not that the compensation fund needs money, that is a fact, but that you act as if it were used on the one hand for active labour market policy, but then it goes into pensions. Of course, everyone knows that the number of pensioners and the number of unemployed are in correlation. However, this is not an active labour market policy. This is labour market statistics. And in order to beautify the labour market statistics, every means is right in the budget, so to speak. If we then put this in correlation with the so-called National Action Plan on Employment, and note – debate in the Committee – that a total of 3.2 billion schillings are planned for a total of five years – which is generously rounded up to 700 million shillings per year – and this contrasts with the 7.7 billion shillings that flow from the AMS into the compensation fund for pensions, then we can see that this National Employment Plan seems to be more of a paper that was forced on us from Brussels. The Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, you all act as if you were going to European events, as if you were the engines that stimulated this. What's going on? – On the last day, you have to send your National Employment Plan to Brussels by fax. So I expect a engine of renewal to do such tasks more quickly! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, reading the National Employment Plan in detail shows that it does not contain any figures. This is worrying because this prevents his evaluation. If you do not set serious goals, you cannot compare how far you have come in the time series. That is to say, it is a draft Sunday speech, and it will not do much, because the 100 000 additional employees you present in the National Employment Action Plan correspond to the figure in the labour market development trend that the AMS has already put on the table in January 1998 in the context of a Wifo study. Mrs Reitsamer! At the end of the question of basic security, I should like to turn to a proposal that you have been concerned about. You're motivating your ungood feeling that you're saying: Then no employer will pay corresponding wages. . I have so far felt that a few trade unionists are also sitting in your group. No one has asked for the collective agreements to be abolished. On the contrary: We believe that there is a need for a profound renewal of collective agreements. But that does not mean how you will probably "hear" again, a abolition of collective agreements, but that means imagination, creativity and self-confident unions. Mrs Reitsamer! If you are talking about a fundamental reform of the social system, then the collective agreements disappear and there are no more terms such as minimum hourly wages and the like, then I must say, I cannot understand that. In this case, we seem to have a radical break in the whole legal order, with the abolition of collective labour law. You have partly abolished collective labour law, Mrs Reitsamer! By integrating the free service contracts into the social security obligation, you have partly abolished labour law through the back door, because in the area of free service contracts there are no holiday arrangements, there are no working time regulations and so on. By including free service contracts in the social security obligation without thinking about this effect, you have created a group of workers who are now fully legally employed in the eyes of the general public, as you imagine they are paying everything but do not have social workers' rights. Then you and our group, the Liberal Forum, would like to accuse me from this point of view that we want to introduce basic safeguards to ensure that collective labour law and collective agreements disappear? . So at this very modest level, I do not want to discuss this question, because it is really a new solidarity and a guarantee for all people in this country. Mrs Reitsamer! Look Take a look at the development of your pension systems! These tend towards compensation pension because you cannot maintain the pseudoequivalence principle. The greater the number of minor employees you have now covered, the greater will be the number of compensation pensioners in the future. That's not so bad yet. I could live with that. However, you should not then discuss the claim of solidarity for basic security in this way. You may not, then, be obliged to admit for yourself that your ASVG and other pension systems are converging towards compensation pension. Read the studies of Rürup that you have commissioned! Just because you haven't noticed them yet, it's not wrong. There the trends and developments are perfectly illustrated. Unfortunately, you cannot escape these trends. That's why you need to be creative and imaginative. And emergency aid is increasing. What is the emergency aid other than an antique form of a basic security that is not yet viable because it is designed according to the all-or-non-principle principle? If you view the merger of social security with those entering the working world as a negative, I wonder: Then why have you followed our proposals and approached the so-called Swiss model? Why have you followed them if it is so bad that if you get out of unemployment, you can start into the working world without immediately losing all the unemployment alimentation? If that's so bad, why did you do that? The Federal Minister has rightly called for this to be a major step forward. And on this point we have given her the right at all times. We have just said that it is perhaps a little too complicated, but from the principle we have given it a right on this point. They make themselves up and say that if one deserves something from the public hand in addition to an alienation, that means that it will be paid and exploited under categorically. – Mrs Reitsamer! Again: Ask I would like to ask your colleagues from the trade union whether they really believe that this means that collective agreements will be abolished. Ask her once! Such a one-dimensional discussion can only be done if you discuss such a social budget. Because this social budget is one-dimensional, without reform approaches, modest, at best suitable to be printed. Whether it can be lived, I don't know.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3572	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3594	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address three points today: first of all, the question of preventive medicine; secondly, the question of restructuring hospital financing; and thirdly, the question of emergency aid. Mrs. Minister! It is a very great step forward that we have succeeded in bringing this 100 million schilling to health care. I would particularly like to thank Mr Rasinger very much for his commitment to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it should be noted that the promotion of projects is as unbureaucratic as possible. Furthermore, the cost of administration and running operating costs should be kept very low and existing working groups of precautionary medicine should be involved in such projects, as they suffer from financial scarcity. Let me come to the second point: I was actually very happy, Mrs Minister, when I heard that the Ministry of Health was put together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, because I thought it would also involve the competence of the main association in the health sector. But what I miss today is your access to the main association and thus also appropriate measures in health policy. Mrs. Minister! I have the impression that you are neglecting the Ministry of Health. They don't get involved in there the way I imagine it. It is good, important and extremely beneficial that the health insurance funds have been rehabilitated. However, these surpluses must also be spent on extra-mural services. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Leiner! Do you mean the tooth replacement?]] Something has to happen. It is unbearable that, while the length of stay of patients in hospitals is reduced, the number of shots is increased. There are currently 8 percent more patients in hospitals. We must ensure that we treat patients more and more in the extra-mural area and not include them in stationary care. However, there is a need to improve infrastructure – both domestic and domestic health care. Individual health professionals must be encouraged accordingly. The Group Practice Act is still hanging in the air. A corresponding step should be taken in this respect too. Mrs. Minister, don't just let the main association negotiate with the doctors! You too can intervene in this area. It would actually be time. The third problem I would like to address concerns the issue of the rescuer. Intensive medicine has on the one hand made great progress in the field of rescue ananiaries. But there are flaws. Vulnerability number one is the first helper. It is generally thought that the doctor or nurse should be taken to the patient. That's good. However, if you are training the first helper only once in school or in the course of the driver's license test and afterwards you are not initiating appropriate training models and are also careful to ensure that you are trained again and again, the first helper de facto will not be able to provide first aid. However, the first helper is responsible and is also obliged to provide assistance from the law. But if he's not able to do that, he can't help. It is therefore necessary to take an initiative to this end. The second vulnerability is the health care helper himself. Its training is governed by a law from 1961. However, it is necessary to modernise the teaching content as well as to extend the obligations and rights of the health care provider. The Germans have already extended this law. In Germany, the emergency helper or the health care helper may also defibrillate. The health care officer may also intub in case of an emergency. Such a new regime would also be necessary in Austria, because these measures can save human lives. Who is the first to come to the accident site? – This is not the doctor, but the rescuer, the rescuer. When training rescuers, we do not forget the many volunteers: In Austria, 33,000 volunteers are employed. These too must be properly trained, but we should maintain the status of volunteering, for we could not afford an amount of 12 billion schilling, which would represent the equivalent of the work of the volunteer rescuers. The third vulnerability is the state-wide financing of emergency medical services. The salary of the emergency doctor shall be financed. On the other hand, it is not financed and regulated that the amount of money and the amount of the material is paid. Remember, Mrs Minister, that there is a need for action! Because in this case it is about saving human life. People who really want to get involved should also be able to get to the train. I conclude by saying: The restructuring of first-aid training is a priority. The reform of the training of the health care staff with the introduction of emergency skills, but taking into account the voluntary structure of the intervention organisations, is appropriate. A federal uniform financing and billing of emergency medical services is essential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3640	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The speaking time is set at 20 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3662	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat concerned that the EIA has obviously adopted itself entirely by social policy and that no speaker will be sent to the panel, which will comment on social policy. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Theme Health!]] This does not surprise me if I listen to Mr Khol's statement, which clearly now determines social policy, and if I hear, on the other hand, Mr Feurstein, who said that 1997 was the most difficult year for him in social policy. In view of the statements made by Mr Khol, there will obviously be more difficult years for you, Mr Feurstein. I regret that, but I'm still coming back to it anyway. Mrs Reitsamer, you have used your speech to defend once again the existing social system: It's all right, everything's fine, we don't have any problems. I am not saying, Mrs Reitsamer, that our social system is the worst, but it is not good enough. We are on the transition from the caring welfare state to the high-risk society. This statement is not from me, but from an American author, Jeremy Rifkin, who wrote an interesting book on the subject "The End of the Work". What he wanted to illustrate with the title of his book is nothing but a demand for new forms of social security that enable us to cope with and deal with the increase of risks. Now I come back to the current situation, Mrs Reitsamer: In Austria, there was not only a quarter of a million unemployed people in 1997 - to a whole year - but there were 700 000 people who were affected by unemployment this year; 700 000 people who were unemployed for a month, two months, three months or several months and, as I suppose, did not know in these months whether they would find work again or not. 700 000 people, of whom Mr Khol says on the one hand, lie in the social hammock from which they have to be removed, 700 000 people who, on the other hand, I refer again to your statements, Mrs Reitsamer, receive unemployment benefit in Austria, which is by no means high, or are in need of emergency aid which is shamefully low, namely, on average 7 000 S per month. Please explain to me, Mrs Reitsamer, how to live for 7 000 S of emergency aid for a month if you no longer have any other financial means at your disposal. Because emergency aid only gets the one who has nothing else to live. Of course, you can apply for supplementary social assistance if the emergency aid, which is often enough, is even lower than 7 000 S, if it is about 3 000 S, in the case that someone has worked for example as a hospital caretaker in a supermarket. The problem, however, is that this woman does not do so, not because she has so much money, but because she is ashamed. There we are again at that political debate in which these people or groups are then accused of being social scrupulous. You, Mr Khol, want to throw these people out of the "social hammock". This is the tenor of social policy, not only this year, but also in recent years. You have also pursued this objective with your budget policy. You can't exculpate from that. They have spent a year on other social abuse legislation and claim that people would receive social benefits which they did not deserve. Mrs Reitsamer, if you say that this is also true, please also tell me what should happen to the people who want to throw Mr Khol out of the social hammock. [[Abg. Rider: Individual cases!]] [[Abg. Worse: You can misinterpret everything if you want!]] Where do they land? Where are they to land? Is it to be punished with sanctions that they do not intend to think of unexistent work? – There is no work or employment which they can accept and which they are promised. Mr Khol does not, of course, happen at a time when the numbers of unemployed and emergency workers have increased, i.e. at a time when there is less and less prospects for long-term unemployed people to find employment. That's the real situation. This issue leads me to the budget. On the one hand, the measures taken by the budgetary policy of recent years have taken away exactly this unemployed person, these pensioners, these emergency aid recipients and recipients every year Schilling for schilling, not a schilling, but thousands of schilling. In the area of emergency aid, you know, Mrs Reitsamer, it was thousands of schillings a year and a month that were taken away from them. We support an emergency aid which has not changed as far as 1994 is concerned, although all the other prices, such as the cost of renting, have increased. These are the facts that we should discuss on the occasion of this budgetary policy and the Social Policy chapter. We should not just give big defence speeches for the "Wonderful" social country of Austria, which does not need to be generated compared to Switzerland, just as you did. Mrs Reitsamer and Mr Khol. In recent years, they have been responsible for a social policy which has not been able to prevent unemployment from continuing to rise. The Minister is also responsible for this. They have made a very high financial effort: the unemployment rate among young people has not increased further. But the price you had to pay for it was a few billion schillings that were spent to create an employment relationship or a training opportunity for just a few thousand young people, with no certainty whether they wanted it in such a form, and this price is very high. Also, the youth employment policy you want to present to us with the new employment action plan for the next few years is not very promising. I admit that the situation is difficult. What you have stated in the National Action Plan on Employment is simply ridiculous. This is ridiculous also in comparison to countries that are far from as good as Austria, and also ridiculous in comparison to countries which are in a similar situation to Austria. I only quote the example of Denmark: The expenditure we are spending in Austria on active labour market policy is just as laughable compared to Denmark. They are also ridiculous when compared to Switzerland. But – and this has already been pointed out in the debate – you are making a serious mistake and are not prepared to accept it: They take funds from unemployment insurance and transfer them to pension insurance. 7.7 billion schillings are the ones you have planned to transfer in 1999. In the last ten years, there have been a total of 35 billion. This is the one and a half times the amount that all unemployment benefit and emergency aid providers will receive in one year, namely about 22 billion. 35 billion have been transferred. I do not claim that the money would necessarily be better spent if unemployment and emergency aid were increased. But it is an active labour market policy that you should pursue. For what you have planned for labour market policy in the budget, you can only be ashamed of the international comparison. Ladies and gentlemen! The policy you have developed and you are ready to continue in the next few years is not correct. It is a wrong way of supporting pension insurance and not trying to get the unemployed back into employment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have had this debate on the means of active labour market policy several times in this House. Few answers and substantial proposals have been made. What do you want to do in the next few years? Do you want to continue this path, increase the funds transferred from this budget area? How do you want to keep doing this? Do you think it is right that every year billions are transferred? – Mr Koppler remains guilty of an answer. [[Abg. Koppler: I just came!]] Of course, Mr Koppler, but you know very well that it is about the billions that are being transferred. I can remind myself that a chamber like the Chamber of Labour Upper Austria is quite different in this point. Other workers' chambers are also not satisfied with the current development. I also do not claim that active labour market policy is the only thing that the Federal Government should and should understand about the creation of new employment opportunities. But in the way you deal with employment and working time in the National Action Plan, there is no perspective for employees or for the unemployed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Koppler: This is a cross with the coalition!]] I mean, it's therefore necessary to put a sign as well. Mr Koppler, you are given the opportunity to stop this medium-term robbery, the transfer of funds from unemployment insurance. There is the possibility because we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What we demand is not much. We only demand that the alleged surpluses produced each year by unemployment insurance, which can only be achieved by saving you with the unemployed and active labour market policies, remain in the area of unemployment insurance. I continue with point 2 of the amendment: "2. In accordance with the VA approach amended in point I, 1555, all other resulting approaches (sum amounts) in Appendix I are also amended accordingly."
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3775	Mr Oellinger! Not 1555, but 155.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3791	Excuse me, Mr President. I mean, the listeners will probably not be confused by my presentation, but at most by the numbers. Ladies and gentlemen! It would also be necessary to refer to a number of other points in the Social Affairs chapter – for example, the problem which I have come to mind due to the speech of my colleague, Mr Head, which has spoken of an ever-increasing number of early retirements. I call on you, Mrs Federal Minister, to address this confusion, which has resulted from the fact that, since 1993, the invalidity pensions of over 55 years old are included in early retirement pensions for long periods of insurance, which has been enabled by a mixture of different approaches, by a more precise designation of these approaches. One thing is clear: The fact is that the number of early retirement pensions does not increase if one calculates the invalidity pensions of over 55. They have also contributed by this mixture of designations since 1993 to the fact that this impression could be given to the public. I believe that it would also be important in the interests of proper allocation to make it clear that the measures taken in recent years have helped to reduce access to pensions, but – at this point I will come back to unemployment – at what price! In the case of men and women over 50 or over 55, there are rising numbers of unemployed, not in the single-digit field but in the dual-digit area. I wonder – and I am interested in this scholastic dispute: are these now considered unemployed or not? not – whether what you're doing here is really good. On the one hand, take people to the pension, but on the other hand do not offer them any opportunity for employment and limit the social security which exists in the form of unemployment benefit and emergency aid. This cannot be the solution to the problems of older workers or unemployed people who have worked for decades and are now faced with the fact that they are no longer needed by the Republic, which is not primarily a state matter, but one of the economy, and are no longer wanted at its workplace. If we are discussing social policy at this point, we should also discuss the fact that the economy is increasingly, and only in this way can I explain that the EIA is no longer involved in this debate at all, no longer wanting to take part in the financing of this social system in the future to the usual extent, as was the case in the past. If we are discussing social policy and the development or restructuring of social policy, we should not only discuss how we can ensure, by means of increases in contributions or constant contribution rates, that this social system, which in some areas has more than major ruptures, but also what measures, through which it can be assured at all, whether this is a question of contributions or of taxes, or whether it is not rather a question of the political will of the shaping forces in that country – this also concerns politics, but also the economy – and whether the decision-makers of this political and shaping will have not been missed to a significant extent in recent years. I would like to add this question to this debate. If I consider all of this and look at the social report that we are not discussing today, I must say that in Austria we have been facing an increasing poverty problem for several years. The idea then arises that this could be related to the economic system, to the political system and to all the accompanying circumstances resulting from it. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not making the mistake of making the Federal Minister responsible for it alone. However, you, Mrs Minister, also have the task and responsibility of not taking part in the next best pot and getting the funds for pension insurance from unemployment insurance contributions if the funds are missing, or from other areas, such as accident insurance, to "turn off" a few hundred billion – as you do. They also have the task of giving offensive attention to the future of this social system in Austria. This meant, in connection with all the debates on the new action plan, for example, the reduction of working time in a different form than is currently shown in the action plan to bring it into the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3844	The amendment is in conformity with business rules and is under negotiation. Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e3868	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! First, allow me a few general comments on the draft federal budget 1999 for chapters 15, 16 and 17, i.e. those political areas for which my department has been entrusted with responsibility. Work, social security, social security and health are among the basic pillars of our democratic system. On this occasion, allow me to take a brief look at some of the statements made so far. I believe that the draft budget for 1999 corresponds entirely to the requirements set by the Federal Government for the legislative period. These are projects such as ensuring a high level of social policy in Austria with a social rate of more than 29 percent, the gradual adjustment especially in the pension area with the aim of stabilising expenditure and also the long-term security of systems. Mr Kier – if you allow me to comment on your comments – has meant that there have been too few reforms initiated and a fundamental reform would be appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of rethinking again and again whether the measures taken so far are the right ones and in what form reforms must be made. However, I am not in favour of giving up and replacing those who have not yet been proven. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] According to my conviction and experience – I suppose, even after yours – reforms of social acceptance need to be achieved in order to achieve the goal of reform. That is why I am also in our social system for a permanent, socially acceptable reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Another point in this budget is the setting of qualitative priorities, such as health care. I would like to mention the additional resources that we have been able to provide for the vaccination programmes for children. Additional resources could also be made available for targeted labour market policies to combat unemployment. I do not want to argue that the structural adjustments and consolidation measures which took effect between 1995 and 1997 and the measures in the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act 1997 have helped to reduce the expenditure in the State budget. Social policy has also contributed to a balanced budget. I believe, in principle, that in the long term such a path was not only necessary, but also right in social policy, because too high budget deficits increase interest rates and thus income from capital and reduce the political margin. In any event, this budget enables a dense, but also efficient and tailored network to fulfil the social tasks of a society. I do not think that despite a budget that is economical, one can certainly speak of such a budget, one can in no way talk about a savings budget. I was able to say that some of the main points were further developed. I would first like to refer to the labour market budget. If, in recent weeks, the reports in the media have been followed and some political statement has been heard again, it could be concluded that funds for active labour market policies have been reduced in recent years. It is wrong, very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen. The opposite is true. In 1997, the Austrian Labour Market Service spent around 6.9 billion Schilling on labour market promotion. This means that active labour market policies were used by around 20 percent more than in 1996. The increase in the support budget for 1997 by more than one fifth has been possible, as the AMS – and I would really like to thank the colleagues of the AMS very much for it – has been exemplaryly successful in making full use of the donation for extraordinary funds from the European Social Fund. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The high level of funding can also be maintained in 1998, as – Mrs Reitsamer has already pointed out – the possibilities provided for in the Federal Finance Act 1998 for the re-transmission of passive funds for labour market promotion are fully exploited. In 1999, the National Employment Action Plan in Austria sets clear priorities. I was able to present you with details of this National Action Plan, but also details of financing. The National Action Plan focuses on the continuation of active labour market policies. In 1999, for example, the switchover from unemployment benefit to active labour market policy will be increased from 0.5 billion schilling to 1.5 billion schilling. This will help, in particular, long-term unemployed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At a press conference today, my employees, colleagues in the labour market service, will report on the labour market situation in the first quarter of 1998 and on active labour market policies. I am allowed to make a few statements that are likely to be made to the public by the AMS. [[Abg. Gaugg: Are they mandatory?]] – You are not mandatory, very esteemed Member! These data are comprehensible, verifiable and correctly reproduced at any time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is noted in this report that, despite higher unemployment in the first quarter of 1998 - and I am not beautiful - I am not pleased in any way because the situation on the labour market is not satisfactory for me - more long-term unemployed people could be integrated into the labour market than in the previous year. This is a success of the labour market service! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The situation in the apprenticeship market has been significantly relaxed in the first quarter. 3 400 job seekers were opposed to 2 400 open apprenticeships. We haven't had such a slight difference for many years. This is also a success of the employees of the labour market service, but also a success of our policy focus. Another 500 million Schillings will be claimed in a separate approach to new employment projects set out in the National Employment Action Plan. In order to promote youth employment, additional funding will be ensured for this and next year through the Youth Training Guarantee Act and through the promotion of courses at vocational schools. I hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will welcome these proposals positively and give them the consent. I would like to stress this – in 1998 and 1999 – for the fight against youth unemployment in addition to 1.5 billion schilling! I would like to refer to Mr Oellinger's comments. He spoke of "unseemly" amounts and a "unseemly" policy and referred to Denmark and other countries. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! This "laughing" policy has led Austria to have the best overall labour market data for all EU Member States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we will not rest to defend and improve this particular position in the future. The National Employment Action Plan is certainly a right approach for this. The question of the increasing number of early retirements and irritations arising from the published data was also mentioned. However, we were able to clarify this at the last budget meeting. Although the overall level of early pensions is rising due to demographics and the development of pensioners, the increase in early pensions is lower compared to the previous years. It has been shown that the policy measures are now gradually taking place in practice. This too confirms to us, as I believe, the accuracy of our policy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on another important chapter in our social budget, the care provision. – In 1997, the federal government spent 15.7 billion schillings on federal care funds. The 1999 Federal Estimate provides expenditure of 17,150 billion Schilling. I would now like to explain why there is a need and therefore an increase in additional expenditure. After a break between 1995 and 1997, the proportion of older people is increasing again. A greater number of applications also for care services is the result. You will certainly remember that since 1. Stages 3 and 7 are indictable on July 1995. High court decisions have prompted us to formulate appropriate heights or clearer definitions for the various stages of care. This legal adjustment entails corresponding additional expenses in the field of care provision. You are certainly aware of my political commitment that a novel on federal care payments will soon be dealt with here in the House of Lords. In addition, I believe that very important and sensible measures should be adopted. Mr Kier has critically questioned the care provision. Mr. Deputy! Many – I almost say: all – countries envy us that in 1993 and 1994 we succeeded in placing this additional pillar of social welfare and social assistance for those in need of care in our social system. I would like to stress that the special thing about our system is that care benefits are made regardless of the individual income situation. It is therefore also necessary to calculate the income situation if appropriate funding of care is desired. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on the question of social security. Within Chapter 16, social security schemes, the majority of the budgeted expenditure amounted to the Federal contribution to pension insurance. In 1997, around 57.5 billion schillings are spent on this title. In 1998, 58.8 billion Schillings were estimated, and in the Federal Estimate for 1999 under discussion, 59.6 billion Schillings in Federal Pension Insurance contributions are planned. This results in the very low increase rates of 2.2 percent for 1998 and 1.4% for 1999. These rates of increase were adopted as a result of the expected favourable trend in the economy. Economic researchers predict an upward trend in economic development. Not least, the structural adjustment laws 1995 and 1996 as well as the Labour and Social Rights Amendment Act 1997 also set consolidation steps. The objectives of these two structural adjustment laws have so far been largely achieved. I would like to thank my officials for making such a high quality assessment. Everyone knows that it is not easy to make such sound regulations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has been complained that in my place of business there is little neglect of health, that it is not given the appropriate meaning. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: They don't exist at all! She was abolished in your ministry!]] I take this suggestion seriously, of course, but still have no bad conscience. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gredler.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have given substantial impetus to health in the budget chapter. I have already referred to the vaccination programme, but I would also like to mention the additional funds for the Health Fund, for which preparatory work is very planned – in the autumn of this year the first projects will be awarded. [[Abg. Mother: That's the only thing!]] In my opinion, we have found a very good structure, which can also take into account the considerations that are constantly being taken into account in the House for the award of various projects to me. Let me now make a few comments on the reference to surpluses in health insurance. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The surpluses have a volume that cannot really be described as a "deep upholstery". [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Now comes the flu wave!]] 1.5 billion schilling of so-called surplus corresponds to expenditure on insured persons of the local health telephone for five days. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: 4 billion!]] 300 million schillings per day are paid to the insured community. So one cannot talk about a very large volume, which is now distributed. This reserve would be used up immediately due to a larger wave of flu or another greater wave of disease. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The flu wave! Typical!]] I am glad that we were able to free the local health phone from its financial bottlenecks and bring about these rebalanced actions. Colleagues Leiner referred to the question of rescuers. I can tell you that an appropriate draft law has been sent to my attention. I hope that it will be possible to find a solution together for this important group of people who help us to do good work in the health sector. As it has been claimed today that there is not enough influence on the main association in the implementation of health policy, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the fact that the question of the permanent replacement of teeth is also taken on the board of doctors on the same influence that has been exerted on the main association in order to achieve a contractual solution to a target price. This influence should be exercised from your side on the doctor's chamber. Because a contract always includes two pages. I hope that these two sides will take account of their shared responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the budget chapter in my section is sufficient to further the exemplary Austrian social policy. That is why I would ask the opposition parties not to lose sight of the fact that those nearly 30 percent of government spending in the social field not only mean fighting poverty but also making a decisive contribution to a fairer distribution of income. I think it is also in our sense that the social budget is in a reasonable proportion to the overall budget, thus ensuring overall balance of state commitments for all areas. I would like to thank you for your support in dealing with the chapter concerning my section, and I would ask you to give your support to the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4037	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4059	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you would like to inform yourself seriously about the quality of our health care system, it is recommended that you take a look at the most recent OECD report, which presents an excellent note to our health system. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: All you need to do is listen to him!]] It is right to say that, over the last ten years, Austria has been able to increase life expectancy higher than in any other European country. It is also pointed out that in Austria the likelihood of dying of an avoidable disease is lower than in all other European countries and that this Austrian health system is also cheaper and cheaper than the average of systems in all developed European countries. For us Social Democrats, however, it is particularly important that we be attested in this report that our health system is accessible to all, regardless of age, income, wealth or education. We are especially proud of this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] That is why I am very concerned that, for example, half a year ago, the association "Initiative Private Medicine" was founded in Linz. The VIP patients – I quote from their programme – are to receive the highest medical standard at current level, short-term deadlines and more information in standard treatments. How financially uninteresting "VUP-patients" – very unimportant patients – are to be treated, it will keep noble in it. For us this is a threat to a basic pillar of our health system, namely that high-quality medicine must be given to all Austrians regardless of their income and without any difference to the person. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In an interview with the magazine "Private patient", the Upper Austrian doctor's chamber president Dr. Otto Pjeta points out that if he says, if it continues as before, there would also be a "second class" outside the hospital. Ladies and gentlemen! It is possible to imagine the burden on those who do not want to be degradated to "second-class" patients. And it is also possible to imagine the burden on those who cannot afford to take out an additional insurance – for example, child-rich families or seniors. We Socialists will fight against it because of our inner conviction. You can rely on that.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4108	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Guggenberger, you criticise the VIP medical organization of Linz, but you completely forget that there are also VIP patients, since some local health telephones serve as self-service stores. In this context, I only remember the wife of the ex-Bundeskanzler Vranitzky, who went to Hanover for an operation. Obviously, the medical care in Austria is very bad. However, it was not – like everyone else – driven to Hanover, but with an aircraft of first class, accompanied by a companion, and subsequently approved by then chief physician Dr. Marek. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: But she paid for it herself!]] [[Abg. Koppler: That's what she paid for herself!]] The first-class flight with companion and the operation in Hanover cost a total of 60 000 D-Mark! For this the wife of the Chancellor was compensated on Heller and Pfennig. [[Abg. Nicer: That's not true at all!]] Show me a single compulsory insured person in Austria who receives 420 000 S from a health insurance fund for an operation in Germany! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They understand it very well to proclaim the two-class medicine; socialist health politicians have been doing it for decades. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, they operate the model of two-class medicine in the hospitals. They keep the salaries of primary doctors quite low and tell them when they are being hired: Well, the basic content is relatively low, but you have the possibility of earning it. There is also a primary doctor in the SPÖ series, who is very good at the self-service shop of the Vienna regional health fund. [[Abg. Rider: This is a monsterity!]] She's not afraid of it at all. I've got a note from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: That's where the "Causa Pittermann" is spoken. Dr. Pittermann works as a primary doctor in the Hanusch-Krankenhaus, which belongs to the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. In Vienna, there is a rule that 40 percent of special fees should be paid to the house – that is the so-called house leave – and of the remaining 60 percent also a part to the subordinate doctors. Mrs. Pittermann, however, does not give any schilling to the subordinate doctors, they told me. I hope Mrs Pittermann – you are still on the list of speakers – that you can correct this. Mrs Pittermann collects up to 300 000 s per month of special class money. It has a basic salary of 75 000 S to 85 000 S per month – and the 14 times – and does not give it a single percentage due to its national council activity, while Mrs Primaria Povysil has a 50% reduction in salary. [[Abg. Koppler: Is that right?]] Mrs. Pittermann can't do the performance herself in the hospital, but the special fees she collects to 100 percent herself! – This is socialism in the needle strip, ladies and gentlemen, and I condemn it here with all the sharpness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, health care is starved. Where the patients are concerned, Mrs. Federal Minister, is being saved. In an answer to a question I received only a few days ago, social security guarantees admit that, from 1996 to 1997, most of them through savings in patients, 4 000 million schilling of less expenditure was achieved within a year. 4,000 million, i.e. 4 billion schilling; of which 200 million shilling in administrative costs! 200 million were saved at the administrative costs, but 3 800 million you have depleted from the patients, Mrs. Federal Minister. You have increased the prescription fees. You have introduced the health certificate tax. They have increased the social security contribution for pensioners. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] There you can shout what you want, Mr Guggenberger: These are facts as to how you make health policy on the back of the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the same time, the people who sit here in the Parliament are taking part in the health insurance companies. In this context, I only remember my colleague, Swimmer. He was once one of the Director-General's representatives at the Vienna Regional Health Fund Chairman of the Parliamentary Health Committee. There are three Director-Generals-General and three alternates. Since there are now nine territorial health telephones, 27 Directors-Generals and 27 alternates are already coming to a large number, an uncountable number of directors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Koppler: How much is the administrative burden?]] This is why the administrative burden is so low by 3.7 percent, because, ladies and gentlemen, the administrative costs are calculated only from the cost of managing the health insurance scheme. That is, to manage yourself, one has administrative costs of 3.7 percent. – This is the so-called Parkinson’s principle: From a certain number of employees you no longer need patients in the insurance system. In order to manage itself, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse employs 800 people; only to manage itself, because that is really a "cost"! It's easy to use. One of these managers is colleague swimmer. Col. Schwimmer is seen in the Vienna regional health insurance fund two to three times a week for one to two hours. For this, he cashes 269,000 S a month, 14 times a year. He's not in the hall right now. I think he is getting the holiday allowance, also 269,000 p. Mr. Schwimmer cannot be present at the health insurance fund more often, because he has 14 paid jobs. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] He is lovingly called the "Zacharias of the ÖVP" by his friends in the ÖVP. I think that this term fits to him as if it were cast. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Mr Koppler, just to give you some examples of how in your series the local health telephones are shut down, how the posts are beautifully divided between red and black, how the directors and alternates are serving, how they fall in favour of an almost zero wage per month, the following: [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] In patients, the benefits are reduced. If someone needs the seventh microwave within three months, he'll have to go to the doctor's office. If someone in Vienna suffers from foot mushroom, then he has to go to the head doctor to get a ointment paid. – However, an ex-Bundeskanzlersgattin will pay an amount of 60 000 D-Mark for treatment abroad, which she could have done just as well in Austria, with flight first class plus companion – retroactively without having to request! This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! That's not what we're supposed to have for! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: What about the implementation of laws, Mrs. Federal Minister? – In an answer to a question, you admit that the Working Time Act will not be implemented in 52 percent of the hospitals that have been tested. [[Abg. Leikam: What about the pension as a municipal doctor?]] There are no sanctions. No sanctions! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: How much does a municipal doctor deserve?]] More than half of the hospitals do not care what the law tells them, Mr Feurstein. That's where you really have to think. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: How much do you deserve?]] What are you working out laws, working-time laws that no one adheres to – and there are no sanctions? The doctors continue to work up to 100 hours a week in the hospitals, are completely overtired and in this state are released to the patients. [[Abg. Leikam: Do you have a pension as a municipal doctor?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] This is a danger to the population, Mr Leiner, but as a doctor, you have no idea. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are no longer in Bad Hofgastein at all, because you mostly sit here in Vienna, but still one of the big money recipients. Getting Without Service Timetable You still have all that you did not work out, every month, 14 or 15 times a year. [[Abg. Koppler: What about the municipal doctor? How does it look with the pensions?]] But you're all sitting up there, silent about it. Rather, the coat of silence is spread over it, but you can keep silent: However, we liberals will ensure that the people are informed of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'd like to address the mother-child passport. There is a decrease in birth rate of 3.7 percent. Now it is clear that the study rate at the mother-child passports is going back because the birth rate is also going back. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ENT studies have a 35 percent minimum, while newborn and infant studies have a 16 percent minimum. That's a real danger. And what's the family minister doing? – He arranges himself with the company Pampers, this diaper company, and introduces a Recall system. So he recommends the company Pampers – who directly benefits from it – that she write to the mothers: Please, take the children to medical examination! – The company Pampers pays for the entire letter letter, makes advertising for itself, and the Mr. Family Minister does good business with Pamper's company, because the family resort is therefore not taxed. Here he saves on the back of the children and the infants. Although the birth rate is falling, the rate of investigation is much more than tenfold. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leitl, the Finance Council in Upper Austria, has also said this – he has put it to the point –: Precautional medicine is seriously neglected. – This is a politician who is a leader at the national level. He said that, and he can believe you! It's not mine. Or: There are too few thoughts about the role of domestic doctors. A comprehensive and conceptual health policy is not apparent. I join him, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals stand for a more free choice of cash instead of the Forces. We liberals demand more private initiatives instead of national health care. We liberals demand more home care instead of unnecessary hospitalizations, more precautions instead of repair medicine. If You can join us, then we are with you, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4398	Mrs Pittermann has made a statement on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4422	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pumberger has claimed that in Vienna 40 percent of the income from special charges must be paid to the country or to the hospital holder. It is true that the distribution of fees for doctors is 60 to 40. Mr Pumberger has also claimed that I earn 300 000 S per month of special charges and keep 100 per cent. It is true, rather, that I received 15 percent of the special fees – after a previous 15 percent deduction for our hospital – and that I did not earn even 300 000 S throughout 1997. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question of Pumberger how much the subordinate doctors receive. If I keep 15 percent, the others can only get 85 percent. To calculate that, you will still be able! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is not little at 300 000 S!]] I said not even 300 000 S! I practice my profession, and I can prove it at any time. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: How much is deducted for parliamentary activity?]] I'll do it according to the order of duty! Try to make sure that you are present in your profession as I am in my profession.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4508	Member of the Commission. Pittermann has made use of her right to correct incorrect claims. Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4532	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the subject back to where it belongs, namely health policy. [[Abg. May. Posch: Bravo!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Posch.]] No one will doubt that we have a good health system in Austria; I do not. The health insurance companies in Austria say of themselves that they offer a world-wide unique price-performance system. But there's to be kept: With our current system, can we deal with the challenges of the future – people getting older and older – that medicine is enormously more powerful? The policy response has so far been: Plans, plans, plans. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Is that the talk of 1995?]] I personally have nothing against plans, but believe that in Austria plans are misused in a kind of hiding game. You can hide yourself very well behind plans. I believe that this is not being discussed enough and that the quality of certain plans is often left to be desired, and I also believe that it is not always flexible enough. I will try to prove this to you, on the basis of the large-scale device plan. In Vienna, there are nine nuclear-spintomographs. – The plan claimed that two devices were necessary. I intervened with Mrs. Hostasch and I said to her: You can't just scrap seven devices at the cost of 200 million schilling! I can remember exactly that the official responsible in the ministry has explained to me with a high red head that would be nonsense, what I am telling you. The Minister has responded very wisely and said: Back to the start, negotiate with those affected! The result was that there are eight such devices. If you need a nuclear-spintomography study in Vienna, the eight devices are not enough at all. There are waiting times from four to six weeks. I've got patients standing, and it's like, Please intervene for an appointment! Of course, it is not pleasant for the individual patient to wait four to six weeks. Example Carinthia: Five devices are included in the plan, and the local health insurance fund says: We give it to the cheap bidder, and it thus prevents an overall contract to this day. For one device of the low-cost bidder, there is a cash contract, for all others none. – Conclusion: 40 percent more hospital studies. Furthermore, the hospital plan: That's what it always said: We need that. There I am completely d’accord. But it was originally planned to lock half the number of intensive beds in the AKH. But that's totally nonsense, because everyone knows that many people have to be on an intensive care station after surgery. Another example, a completely new example of the "flexibility" of such plans. A woman from Krumbach – I quote – wrote to me: My husband, 73 years old, learned at the end of March that his kidneys no longer work, he is unfortunately dialysis patient. In the Wiener AKH, he was able to become only tiredly friends with his situation three times a week. Now he has to be from the AKH because this is overcrowded and because there is no place in Wiener Neustadt, after St. Pölten. The trip from Krumbach to St. Pölten three times a week is not imaginable for a healthy person, but not even for a 73-year-old. Apparently rejected, no need. – I researched – and must say: That's right. The AKH says: We are peripheral, 4 percent more dialysis patients per year, it is less transplanted. Wiener Neustadt says: We do have the staff, but we do not have permission, because there is no need. – Final sentence of the patient: Please, dear politicians, solve the problem as soon as possible. – So if planning looks such that you do not even know how many dialysis cases can be expected in the southern Lower Austria, then I do not even know how to plan them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ambulance plan: It is said that we need an ambulance plan in Austria. There's no such thing around the world; that's what makes me fun. I now know that the codification for hospital stays in the stationary area takes a lot of time away from the senior doctors in particular. But where's the time going? – In patient education and use, because you can't divide time twice! You know very well that in a parliamentary answer you yourself have written that in 50 percent of the hospitals the doctors work up to 100 hours. So the doctors are certainly heavily burdened at large modo time. But the ambulances work, as you know, with hypotheses. The patient does not come into the ambulance with the sign "Krebs" or with the sign "Herzfarkt" but with the symptoms tiredness or dizziness. It is known worldwide that it is not so easy to draw up a code that is applicable in the hospital. A finished diagnosis in a stationary patient is not so easy to transfer to the outpatient system. In ambulances, very few health reports are also written, because this is hardly possible in time. This is where I see a great amount of red tape coming from us, with no money in the end being available again. More to pay. That is, I doubt that we can so easily go into this project. I fear something completely different, namely that a plan will be created which will be very rigid, but in reality people will be sent back and forth because it will then be called that it is not included in the plan. Next point: Subsidiary plan. We all know that in Austria we are "world champions" at stationary hospital stays. Every health politician who understands about it half says: You have to get out of the hospital. As a family doctor, I have already given up almost believing that the domestic doctors are being promoted in some form. In my opinion, it is symptomatic that the Ministry issues a regulation which gives practical value to the treatment of a pudel to the veterinarian more than that of a person with the family doctor. I think that's absurd, but unfortunately it is. There's a plan of the ÖBIG. There you can read: We need three doctors in Austria in addition. Three doctors! How do you want to get out of the hospital? – But it becomes quite "white" when it says, in Carinthia you need 57 doctors in addition. The local health insurance fund has publicly announced in a broadcast that it does not even have money for 25 additional doctors. Finally, a need of 614 doctors for eight federal states comes out, and with regard to the situation in Vienna it is to be read: Surplus of 611 doctors. I need to tell you quickly: It is to be read, in Vienna there are 14 psychiatrists and 45 orthopaedics too much. However, if you want to send patients with cross-weed to an ambulatory, the waiting time for an investigation date is 14 days to three weeks in the ambulatory – these are suspicious witnesses. I have to write such patients either, or I may be able to treat them myself. I think I can say that the claim that in Austria only three additional doctors are needed – as your OBIG, Mrs Bundesminister, has said – is really bleak. This will make the entire hospital reform a failure. I must also address a certain degree of superiority of the health insurance companies with a sentence. The Court of Auditors says: There are too few psychiatrists. As a result, the health insurance fund says: There may be too few doctors in certain areas, but in reality there are 20 psychiatrists too much, especially in the agglomerations there are too many psychiatrists. The health insurance institution then writes to the conclusion: We just have a different number of ways. – You really can't do that easy! The speaking time has passed too quickly, only the following: Mrs. Minister! Her predecessor Hesoun as a Social Minister said that the system of self-management was not a sacrosanct system, it was necessary to adapt participation and participation mechanisms to social change. I too believe that there should be more people, the disabled and the elderly in self-administration. In Austria too much is ordered in health care, too many plans are dictated from above. Please note that the motivation of those concerned is, in my opinion, in a state of insidiousness. I would not see this as an election campaign with the doctors that they say: SOS-Medicine, that's all just talk! For he who listens exactly recognizes that there is enormous dissatisfaction in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have consensus: We need high quality for all, regardless of income. I am in favour of genuinely implementing reforms and not merely constantly strengthening the word'reform'. I am also ready at every day and night for a reform, namely a reform that really deserves this name, but not for hidden plan economics, which I could certainly talk about longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4599	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4620	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Rasinger! I would just like to make a brief reference to those data that I believe you have quoted – as far as I can see now – from a study prepared in 1994 or 1995. This study has not been officially accepted by my predecessor or by me, and the statements and data contained therein do not, in my opinion, correspond to the current state of play. I would ask you to contact my department so that we can update the information.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4650	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4675	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rasinger, you have begun your speech by saying that we have a good health system. I cannot follow you in this regard because I have listened closely to you in your speech and have to say that she was full of criticism. Then why do we have a good health system? - I'm going to disprove that too. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Viewed around the world!]] You also know the OECD report. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The English have a worse!]] The good law of the Minister of Health and Health, Mr Mag. Guggenberger is sure to see our health system only through the pink glasses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Unfortunately, I cannot do this because in recent years, people in this country have had to get used to the fact that for one of the highest goods – at least in all the media – health seems to be less and less available. The fact that the social system and the health system have been operating at all corners and ends for years now, the system owners have little to do with it – if the money was missing, the contributions were simply increased, as in the case of the health certificate fee, or benefits, as in the case of birth allowance, or benefits such as the care and care allowance were not adjusted to inflation. In this respect, the 1999 budget continues, which has been used for a number of years as a usual non-health policy. Ladies and gentlemen! As it is always said from this point of view, Mr Dr. Rasinger, Austria has one of the best health systems in the world, and you, Mrs Minister, in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, have called the OECD Report 1997 as witnesses, I would like to recall some facts from the report. The highest growth rates recorded health expenditure, an annual increase of 8 to 13 percent. And with real health expenditure of over 9 percent of GDP, we rank one in Europe – unfortunately I have no other OECD study, I wait for the upcoming one, and then we can talk about it again – with the lion share – and this is very unfortunate – of the hospital sector. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Eight!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This is the past!]] Furthermore, the average price of medical services is 20 percent higher than the EU level. It is particularly striking that prices for professional services in hospitals are much higher than those for the same services in the established area. This led the OECD report to point out that the established area is probably far less protected than the stationary one. I believe that we need not protect our hospitals, but we must do something to ensure that they work economically. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, it must also be noted that the number of hospitalizations continued to increase after the introduction of the new LKF system. In the meantime, every fourth Austrian is assigned to a hospital once a year, which in turn leads Austria to take the first place in the European Union in this regard. If you are allowed to give faith to recent newspaper reports, hospitalists use the trick of optimizing points. A secondary diagnosis, which brings more points than the original indication, is used to calculate points. Furthermore, patients automatically wake up in intensive bed – whether they need it or not – just because there are more points, that is, more funds. Or: Patients are released before the weekend and re-injected on the following Monday, only because there are no points for the treatment-free weekend. And that's where the question arises: Is that the health policy we need? If it is true that there are already computer programs for diagnostic engineering, then everything must be done to stop them and also to account for those responsible, Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I regret that, since the entry into force of the new Hospital Law, all these benefits have no longer been subject to the competence of the federal government and not to that of the health centre. Social security and countries determine that the Federal Government will only be left to do without any means of influence to deliver its federal contribution to hospital financing: according to the Federal estimates, almost 6.5 billion Schilling. I dare to doubt today, because of the lack of federal competence, that the cost increases in hospitals will be permanently reduced, which was the real meaning and purpose of the exclusion. In this context, it is particularly regrettable that the funds for real health care will continue to be modest. After the radical cuts in the 1996 savings package, health promotion funds will continue to be frozen at a low level for 1999. AIDS aid and the fight against drug abuse are, unfortunately, the particularly suffering areas. In view of the 10 percent reduction in the use of the mother-child passport examinations, fire is appropriate on the roof and great concern. Mrs. Minister! It honors you that the vaccination program is a glorious – the only glorious – exception. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I also have to say that real health policy is not made in the Federal Health Agency or in the health insurance companies. The health insurance companies manage the money of the contributors, but let them miss a targeted health policy. Sickness policy is being made from social security, and the contributors have to watch simply how to increase contributions if the funds are not sufficient again; once again I mention the health certificate fee. Mrs. Minister! I do not understand that you want to allow health insurance companies to offer tooth replacements stuck in their ambulatory offices. Please don't misunderstand me, I also take care that patients or generally cosumants have to pay overly high prices. Only: In the area of dental crowns, there is a profound problem behind it, namely the untruth in the pricing of dental treatments. As long as, for example, root extractions, which are sometimes an expensive procedure, are worth only a few hundred schillings, or – another example – are set for a tooth removal below 100 s, it is not possible for dentists to calculate other treatments higher because they are forced to do so. First of all, there must be a level playing field, and then real competition can be used. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This example, ladies and gentlemen – and this is just an example! – meets the crucial point and is the main nerve of our decomposed cash system, because there is no cost truth, no effective quality, control and settlement system. This gives rise to an unsustainable situation, especially in view of the fact that the health and, in particular, the hospital sector is one of the most cost-intensive economic sectors in our country. 9 percent of the gross domestic product is spent in the health sector! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that as long as we have a monopoly in the health and pension sector in this country with the health and pension funds existing after the proportion, an economic as well as a consumer-friendly health care will unfortunately remain a dream. I fear that Austria will continue to be excluded from health and economic advantages in competition in the European Union if we continue to do so if, for example, compulsory insurance is a sacricle and one cannot even discuss it in the approach. Other countries in the EU, for example Germany, live in a different way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] There is already competition and thus more transparency, more economic efficiency. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In Austria, however, this is not possible as long as the so-called well-purchased and self-determined rights are valid, which from the outset exclude competition. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to point out some of the conditions that are necessary from our point of view for a real health reform. In order to reduce hospital costs, we need the further development of performance-oriented health care facilities, which is also linked to a sufficient number of outpatient facilities outside the hospitals. In future, a reform of the LKF system towards greater billing accuracy and prevention of falsifications in the calculation of the diagnostic points is also essential. The division of competence in the Austrian health care system must be eliminated, because a toothless health ministry ultimately costs more than it brings. We need a continuation of the reorientation of cots in nursing beds. We also need a forced expansion of health and social policy in countries and communities. Consideration should be given to self-retaining in the outpatient hospital area – except in the event of an emergency and in the event of transfers. The Hospital Employment Act must be reviewed for its compliance. Ladies and gentlemen! The alarm bells must ring when you know that half of the hospitals do not comply with the labour laws or cannot be observed! Long-term benefits should also be paid to doctors in the established area. The distribution of all non-medical benefits from hospitals and the outsourcing of large parts of the health supply from the social security institutions must be undertaken. Group practices must finally get cash contracts. The confession to the extramural area should not only be a lip confession, but at last gain in importance. In this context, the colleagues of the ÖVP are also called upon, not only here from the speaker's desk, but also at the committee meetings and in the preliminary discussions with the Government, to say that this is at last happening. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a list of demands that can be continued at any time. These are demands that require a broad and open discussion. We Liberals are convinced that these demands are of great importance in Austrian healthcare, and we are happy to discuss them.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4808	The next item is the speech by Mr Seidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. [[Abg. Seidinger: 4!]] Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4838	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the time being, a few observations have been made. It is lamented that Mrs Reitsamer as a speaker and chairman of the Committee would not have dealt with the subject in depth enough. It was meant that she spoke too briefly. I can make a few explanations to this effect: They all know the Rules of Procedure, and after this one "Vienna hour" is divided as follows: SPÖ 15, ÖVP 14, FPÖ 13 and for the smaller opposition parties per 9 minutes. If you divide the 9 minutes of the smaller opposition parties into 9 Members, every 1 minute, if you transfer our 15 minutes to 71 Members, then much less comes out. . So in reality, this is nothing but an expression of the collegiateness of the chairmen with the other Members in order to make them speak. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Kier also complained that there would be no possibility of discussing reforms at all, or that we would not be prepared to enter them at all. I think that last year was a year of reforms. Professor Rürup noted that Austria has one of the best social and pension systems. And we also think very well about how we could adapt the system built up in accordance with our charging procedure also with regard to other systems. Undisputed remains our charging procedure, with which we have been well driven up to now and about which the whole world is envying us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the health system, there are, as everywhere, great desires, demands, but in recent years some reforms have also been implemented. They were carried out to keep our level! Keeping the level is already difficult enough, not in vain envys us about it too! If you are on the street asking people where you want to be delivered to a hospital, in Austria or in one of the other European countries or even in one of the overseas countries, you will get a clear answer, namely: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch]] I would like to be sent to Austria and nowhere else! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] That Mr Pumberger continues to use the same style, although there is the call of the President not to continue in this way, is his case. We will not be content with this style, nor will we be provoked. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I didn't get an order call for the difference between SPÖ members! I didn't get an order call!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of issues raised – whether this is the promotion of apprentices, the National Action Plan on Employment or our unemployment rate: The world envys us, only in Austria the whole thing is nothing worth it! Either we're too spoiled, or we don't believe in what is. We will have a number of things to do before the summer, in order to stay with social policy, for example, the Federal Care Act Novelle – the Federal Minister has already responded to it – and we have the Federal Senior Law, and in the ASVG area we have the 55. Novelle not only to bring in, but also to treat. The fixed replacement of teeth by ambulatories which has already been mentioned today will be a goal of our group. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4905	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e4927	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As rosy as Mrs Minister has drawn the picture, it is not in the social and health sectors for 1999. Mrs. Minister! You may have overlooked that, despite your NAP and your good intentions in the NAP, the unemployment rate among the disabled rose rapidly again in May. You may also have forgotten that the re-trainings you are now offering in the field of disabled people do not result in disabled people getting a job, but only people who have been unemployed for a long time are now put into training, and after this training they are no longer among the long-term unemployed, although they have not been employed in the meantime. The fact that you, Mrs Minister, said earlier that long-term unemployment could be reduced so much is simply not true. No one from the long-term unemployed has got a job, but they have been transferred to training tracks or sent to the infirmary. These two rails ensure that long-term unemployment is not interrupted but stopped. The subjects then start again at zero. If, for example, you ask the head of the State Employment Office of Styria, he will also tell you that the pressure to get the long-term unemployed into programmes is very great, so that they are no longer considered to be "long-term unemployed" even though they are unemployed afterwards. You shouldn't think about it, because reality is another. They only give the child a different name, but long-term unemployed people still remain – regardless of whether they are disabled or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another topic, Mrs. Minister, is the care allowance. You have praised the care money and the planned innovation you are striving for so much. However, they seem to have overlooked – consciously or unconsciously – that with the new care scheme you have created so many inequalities for disabled people. An example of this is § 12, in which it concerns the claim to care money and when care money rests. The innovation says that mentally disabled persons and children will receive the care allowance even if they are in the hospital and there are accompanying persons. Mrs. Minister! That's both pious and good. But why is this not true of people with disabilities? People with disabilities who are in the hospital usually need assistance there, and there too the provision of rest should be abolished. This is an blatant inequality, and I hope that you will succeed or that you will at all be willing to remove this blatant inequality. Mrs. Minister! They have once again returned to the table and not included some very important points in the revision of the care allowance, which we have called for for for years. First: There is still no valorization of the care allowance, and this is a blatant imbalance because the care allowance has been frozen for four years. Mrs. Minister! You have also failed to include deaf people in the circle of those entitled, although this claim has been made to you since the beginning of the nineties. They have not given these people any meaning to this day, and therefore they do not give them any care money. Mrs. Minister! They have also not taken back the pocket money reductions for persons living in stationary facilities. I don't think it's covered if I claim that you don't come out with 570 s pocket money a month. These days, you can't even give this amount to a 17-year-old as a monthly pocket money, because even those who won't do with this amount, let alone adults who should cover their leisure and personal needs themselves. With 569 S, Mrs Minister, this is not to do, and you have not raised this amount. Mrs. Minister! You could now say: Yes, of course, but people get a pension anyway! – There are many disabled people who do not receive a pension because they have not acquired pension rights, and who do not yet receive orphanage because the parents are still alive. And these people have to get 569 s a month. Mrs. Minister! There is a need for action, in this area the cuts must be reduced. Mrs. Minister! It should also be pointed out that children under the age of three still have no legal entitlement to it. They say: What does the disabled child need more help and care than a child who is not disabled? That is, it is now quite easy to count the hours, and every hour that a disabled child needs more help is counted as a need for care, but nothing else. Mrs. Minister! You have also not taken the level 1 back, which you have cut to 2 000 s. These five points must still be taken into account in the new innovation. If you don't, then you have no right at all to promise this renewal. In fact, this is not an improvement, but, on the contrary, there are no essential points. They have not picked up – regardless of the fact that even an open care allowance is not included in the innovation this time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the health sector, Mrs. Minister. – A lot has already been said about this. What about the precautionary medicine? What has happened in recent years? – Nothing has happened. The only thing you have done is to increase the budget for 1999, and this only for the vaccination concept. Mrs. Minister! You know what our vaccination concept looks like at the moment. We passed a vaccination law last December, because it was so important for you to decide on this law in the previous year. It should be ensured this spring the rate of vaccination and the so-called five-fold vaccination. But what does the practice look like? – Ms. Minister! There is no vaccine to this day. The company that committed you to supplying the vaccine to Austria could not deliver the vaccine – but not because it was not present, but because it was an old, cheap product that must no longer be used in Austria. If I am not right in this regard, Mrs Minister, you will prove to me what you have already asked for from this company at the time of the Convention punishment – nothing! You ordered batches you shouldn't have ordered. To date, there is no current vaccine in Austria. I shall have this answered by you in the form of a written request. How high is the ponale that you get back now, and where does the money remain for the supposedly so good vaccination concept? – Ms. Minister! I'm curious what you're going to answer. But not only the question of precautionary medicine is almost unsolved, but there are other very important points that are not solved either. An example: LKF. You have probably read in the newspapers lately that the average stay in the hospital has been reduced. This is good and plausible, but, Mrs. Minister, people now come to the hospital more often than before, and you know that the first days in hospitals cause the most cost. And if you still want to make me aware that this LKF is useful in this area, if you think you can do that, then I'm curious how you want to justify it. Mrs. Minister! There is no funding for quality assurance in the hospital. The issue of quality assurance in the established area is not solved. The question of group practices is not solved. The question of health professions is not solved. The question of the protection and extension of the care of the home is not solved, and it is not, finally, solved the question of psychiatry reform. There are serious shortcomings, and the Court of Auditors report shows this very clearly. Mrs. Minister! Nor is the question of indebted-independent patient insurance solved, and the implementation of the Working Time Act for doctors in hospitals has not yet been settled. I could now list a lot of areas for you, questions that are unresolved. Mrs Minister, my question: When do you finally want to solve all this? How long do you want to wait until these areas are finally designed in such a way that the domination of hospitals is no longer in the foreground, but the established area? How long do you want to wait until the psychiatry is finally implemented in a satisfactory manner? How long do you want to wait for it to finally improve quality for the staff and for the patients? Mrs. Minister! It will also continue to abolish the health certificate fee, although you have claimed that the health certificate fee is only a transitional arrangement until there is the so-called chip card. The health certificate fee is still available, but you can hardly hear anything from the chip card, because you don't know at all how to solve this in the context of data protection. You seem to have gone out of your mind, and there have been difficulties, especially with regard to the data protection that we have pointed out a long time ago. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have not believed that data that your chip card should have included is incompatible with data protection and that the networking and access to data you want are absolutely unwarranted and, above all, not safe. Mrs. Minister! There are still some things that must be dealt with most urgently and must finally be given a solution. I know that it is not as easy for you, because of your huge area of activity, namely health and social affairs, to address the areas in the form they should have been used for a long time. But, Mrs Minister, neither the social sector nor the health sector can develop itself, but the health sector and the social sector have the rightful right to be further developed accordingly. At last, lack of concepts must be drawn up and implemented, and the corresponding demands must finally be taken up and implemented. In the health and social field, it is currently the case that your own department manages itself. As a matter of fact, there is nothing left for individual citizens and individual citizens except cuts and disadvantages. I wish, Madam Minister, that at last it will succeed, at least until our next debate in 1999, where we are going to talk about the budget again, as important points as I mentioned them earlier, as just the lower level of quality assurance in the hospital, such as the Psychiatry reform et cetera, and offering concepts and solutions that we need quite urgently. It cannot be assumed that these areas will simply be pushed further, will be enchanted out of the drawer next year, will again be found in a paper with the background that nothing has changed anyway and will not change in the future. This is not a health reform, it is not a social reform, as we want it to be and as it would be necessary. Mrs. Minister! They need action. There must finally be a better provision for disabled people, for socially weak people and also for patients in need of care. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5048	Next speaker is Member Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5069	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address only one issue in my contribution to the debate: labour market, vocational training and youth. Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed here in this House about six weeks ago the National Employment Action Plan, a very basic document, as I believe, which clearly signals the high importance attached by this Federal Government to labour market and employment policy. It contains a number of fundamental statements on employment policy, and it is pleased to note that young people and their training also contain a very clear commitment to our dual vocational training system. It is a system of which we can say with pride that it has brought us a top priority in Europe both quantitatively and qualitatively, because we have the lowest youth unemployment in the EU and, secondly, we have always taken first place in all professional olympics in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, we can be proud of that. On the other hand, we know and have already taken into account in the previous year that the framework conditions for training young people, as many businesses complain, have worsened in recent years. We therefore tied up an apprenticeship package last year, and we also fixed a number of reform approaches in this National Action Plan to improve the framework conditions for apprenticeship training in firms. I support these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, in principle. I have only one request, Mrs Minister, and I think we are gradually under time pressure here: We've got it at the end of May. In a month, the school year is over. We in the Chamber of Commerce are constantly calling businesses and asking: What are the framework conditions for apprenticeship employment in this year? I can only quote the comments in the National Employment Action Plan at the moment. You know, and I'll bet you: In delicate places we have often chosen very baroque formulations. That's not how the farms start. This means that we now need concrete answers as quickly as possible to the question: How can we put these basic statements into practice? I'll give you three examples. First example: the teaching. That's where we wrote: Teaching only through the labour market service. We still don't know what it's supposed to be like. There are two extreme possibilities: The one is, the labour market service looks at every youth. The other option is: One creates guidelines, according to which the teaching is allowed. – It's a big difference if I do it like that. I can make it very bureaucratic, but I can also make it very flexible. We need to know as soon as possible what this teaching will indeed look like. Second example, Mrs. Minister. – I believe that we must now know, as soon as possible – in the action plan we have even written the date at the end of May – what these fishing nets actually look like, which should then be taken in November. You have our full support, Mrs Minister, if you are pressured to take concrete action as quickly as possible. Because I already have a little criticism to make: If the regions involved have needed almost six weeks to clarify the question, which department is responsible for what is in place, then there is actually already a relatively long period of time, Mrs Minister, and now we need concrete measures so that we can say to our businesses: These are the conditions for apprenticeship employment in this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, the same applies – because we are in a budget debate – to the question I could not answer until yesterday; perhaps it is clear today: What resources of the labour market service are still available for the year 1998 in the field of apprenticeship employment? – I have to say honestly, I've been asking around everywhere, and everyone says: Yes, it is very much blocked by the commitments of the previous year. What scope there is for action in this area of labour market promotion for apprenticeship employment, I was unable to clarify it until yesterday. In this respect, a few clarifications would be received from you, Mrs Minister, by us with thanks. Summary: We know that this issue is in good hands with you. They also have the full support of our party and the economy. My request would be that we should now make massive joint pressure so that we can come to concrete action very quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5136	Mr Gaugg has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5157	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The honourable Member's speech makes us bold. That means that this national pact of employment – or whatever it is called – is not worth the paper it is written on. Baroque formulations have been used and now, finally, concrete implementations have been required. – You might think Mr. stupid is sitting in an opposition party. That is exactly what it is: a paper of false hopes, a paper that it is not worth... [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's fair!]] Mr Feurstein! You do not agree with your seat, but I note with amazement that, as social spokesperson, you seem to have made a secret vow on the question of social, health and social security, because you do not find it again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not black and white!]] But probably you have already adopted the budget presented for 1999. For no other place in the government was cleared as the one of the Federal Minister of Hostasch's. In 1996, there were 92.3 billion schilling available for social affairs, with only 86.7 billion available in 1999. This is a decline of exactly 5.6 billion schilling within three years. I therefore understand that your statements are constant defence speeches for a system that is no longer to be maintained by your means and methods. Where are the impulses for additional employment for 1999? Where are the impulses in the question of apprentices, about which we have just heard something from colleagues stupid? Where are the precautions for finally slowing down the number of early retirements? – In reality, you transfer the responsibility you would have to assume to the companies concerned. They are supposed to see for themselves that they are moving forward in some way, as has been shown by the recent example, namely at the post office. This is your kind of policy: First of all, it is said that 9 500 jobs are cut off at the post office, then a bit of the union is touching, and then you get your knees. We will not be able to afford the policy of kneeling in the future. Another witness to the fact that this national employment programme is of no value is Mr Tumpel, President of the Chamber of Labour. He has little confidence in this paper, as he has now called for 20 000 to 25 000 jobs to be added to Vienna alone. They say that the world is all right in the labour market service. I wonder why the manager Buchinger is constantly talking about the lack of a billion schilling for 1998 alone. Where are your modern, new measures for the future? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really have to ask you this, because you are criticized by the OECD for not doing enough to achieve a lasting stability pact in the Republic. Everything you do can be described as follows: Net new debt, more unemployed and worse conditions for workers. This is your form of politics! There is also a massive increase in direct taxes on households. Anyone who is powerful for reading can convince himself: In 1995, there were 286 billion schilling, and in 1999 there will be 357 billion schilling. In other words, you can't even use a single key value in your budgets for making improvements. Rather, there is only deterioration in benefits. This is your form of politics! The only measure you have left for the active labour market policy in 1999 is a shift from unemployment support to employment expenditure for the unemployed. That's your measure, but you're actually not moving at all economically. Where are the real reforms? Where does the merger of social security institutions remain? Why are you hiding the 2000 tax reform? – Because you are afraid of the next elections! Otherwise, you would have to tell the people that the 2000 tax reform will be a new tax package. We will certainly not carry this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where does the modernisation of the working world remain? – All disbursements carried out under your responsibility in post, train, federal forests and other areas are exclusively at the expense of the workers. This is happening under a Social Democratic Chancellor, for whom it is necessary to treat yourself very slowly. For it is not to be seen that workers in this Republic should only contribute to the consolidation of the budget. Finally, I expect you to take steps to ensure that we have safe employment and increasing income for workers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5226	Mr Lacner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5247	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! For citizens of this country, continuity in health policy means that they participate in a health system that offers high quality and safety for those concerned. Continuity and quality are continued by the current health budget for decision-making as an important concern of the Federal Government, especially the Minister for Health. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true at all!]] The reforms started in the field of health care will continue in order to continue to guarantee that high standard in medical care. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: We don't have that yet!]] Mrs Haidlmayr! It's all right if you think we don't have this yet. That's your right. But I am deeply convinced – and I have been working in this area for a very long time – that we have a very good medical care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You can believe this, I can support it with a lot of examples. Of course, it is your legitimate right in the opposition that you see everything with a darker glasses. You're free of this, of course. Ladies and gentlemen! The high acceptance of health care by the citizens of this country is a source of courage and suggests that the path taken is the right one. Of course there is where there is a lot of light – now I agree with you, Mrs Haidlmayr! –, of course also a little shadow. In this respect, I would particularly like to refer to the not yet completed health insurance system – the LKF system. However, its optimization is constantly being worked on. I am deeply convinced that the problems encountered will be resolved satisfactorily by the end of 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, however, the path I have already indicated is the right one, and it will be continued consistently by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now a few words on the speeches of my previous speakers. Mr President, he is not here at the moment, in his contribution, he claimed that only the absolute amount of an estimate approach already means that the high quality of a supply is guaranteed. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not share this opinion. For I believe that only the efficient use of the funds is crucial to ensuring a high quality of medical care. Finally, a brief comment on the statements made by the health speaker of the FPÖ. Mr Pumberger! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Actual correction?]] If you want to prove with your present presentation that you have made the Primitiva argumentation your top principle, you have indeed succeeded very impressively. You have to be very grateful again for being so ungrateful in your criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: These are facts!]] Because what you've done here doesn't believe you're human beings all over Austria, Dr. Pumberger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your unspeakable criticism, your really inappropriate handling of the truth – I have to be a little careful – and the actual correction of Mrs. Pittermann proves your... [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Be careful that you don't get an order call for this submission!]] What? – Mrs Pittermann’s actual correction proves her dealings with the truth, isn’t it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I didn't say how much...!]] Dr. Pumberger! You have said very well that Mrs Colleague will receive references which she does not, in fact, refer to. By the way, Mr President, you are always very badly informed. I could now address your contribution to the payment of primary doctors, and so on. Of course, I can do this in a private body with you once, so that at least in the future... [[Abg. May. Posch: Don't understand, a private body!]] He doesn't understand? – In private lessons, I will be happy to do so so that you also know what it really looks like. Ladies and gentlemen! Moreover, health policy in Austria is certainly on the right track. She is particularly with the Minister of State in good and good hands, and so it should remain. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: If you don't do anything, don't make any mistakes!]] We will, of course, give our approval to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5402	Mrs Gredler is speaking. Do you want a voluntary time limit? - Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I might want to speak on behalf of a woman who cannot defend himself here. It was the talk of a patient named Christine Vrnitzky who cannot defend himself here. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Yes! 60,000 S!]] Mr President, I should like to thank First of all, I have to tell you: There is no first class on flights to Hanover, but only Business Class. You should know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, If you have an urgent operation ahead of you, you can't plan the appointment long before and therefore don't order the tickets before to fly in the tourist class. The patient therefore had to pay the business rate to get to the hospital in which an organ was available for her as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] My dear colleague! That's a bottomless flaw in the face of this patient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you're doing here is a misuse of personal data. That's not fair. You can answer it. This woman has flown home immunosuppressed. She pleads that she did not know on which day she could fly home, and therefore did not order her ticket before. [[Abg. Brix: That's bad!]] That is really unfair to this woman! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] If you were in the same position – that you need an organ – then you would do everything in the world to get the organ! [[Abg. Brix: Bad!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I understand that it is possible to do something like this in a hospital where you have the necessary confidence in the operator. There are also in Hanover Austrians who operate, and these are known to transplant hearts very well. – That’s incredible! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you yelling like this?]] Yeah, I'm sorry. You're right, Mrs. Colleague, I should say this more calmly. But I believe that emotions can also be shown in patients undergoing transplants. - Now I'm coming back to the subject. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] In health policy, I lack the emphasis on prophylaxis. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have probably released a few million schillings to improve the prophylaxis in Austria or to expand this area. I would like to say the following: At that time, in my training as a dentist, I asked the primary Jesch, as he was speaking and answering us: Mr. Primarius, how can you – at the time it cost so much to my memory – remove the toothstone by 56 S, i.e. a prophylactic measure? Mr. Primarius Jesch, a truly excellent primer whose qualifications I absolutely do not want to dispute, said to me: Mrs Colleague, you also have a social commitment in this profession. I have therefore concluded that I naturally have to make this a tariff which is not appropriate, even in the light of what is necessary. But on the other hand, one does not need to wonder that a corrective has been installed over private services. The same argument is used in primary doctors: low basic content, since they can anyway increase their salary via private patients. That is, the system smells not only from the crown, but in general. It is simply a system in which some of the benefits are recovered to a lesser extent or where lower wages have been used, because you have seen a compensation on the other side. Now you only highlight the one side, but if the whole thing is considered, then both sides belong to it. When discussing dental crowns, I have no problem at all, but then we have to talk about the entire service catalogue, which is recovered from the established doctors, or also about the fees in the hospitals. On the other hand, I have to say: It is also not normal for the Working Time Act to have been implemented in about 50 percent of hospitals so far. This is an alarm sign, and this refers back to your place of business. Her predecessor described it as a major step in some areas of hospitalisation as a move to the countries. But the change has led you to say now that you no longer have access, and the arrangements made with regard to the doctors in the hospitals are subject to the sovereignty of the country. – In my opinion, this is a hiding place from reality. On the other hand, a process that you have produced and initiated – or which your predecessor has initiated – will be used to protect yourself and not to implement the measures. This is indeed a problem. The next point is the uneven payment for the same performance. In other words, electorates receive only 80 percent of the benefits they provide for patients, whereas in the case of insurance doctors, 100 percent are recovered. This too is not all right, and now it will hopefully prove that this is not all right. Same tariffs for equal benefits! One should stop believing that geographical barricading for established doctors with cash offices leads to their economic environment being safeguarded. We need free access to cash register contracts and free establishment! Then you will see who survives in this competition and who does not. I am sure that the doctors and doctors who accept the patient and the patient in particular will prevail. In my view, it is absolutely not bad if there is a little more competition. Why is only a full operating time of about eight to ten hours possible in the hospitals? Why can't you introduce a 14 hour full operating time? Why can't normal trials be started at 10 o'clock? – That wouldn't be a problem at all. If a multi-layer operation is set up which achieves as much utilization as possible of the equipment and the examination rooms, this would lead to a reduction of costs in general. This might really be an approach that could help us save more and have greater efficiency than we do now. It would also be nice if the local health insurance fund and the individual occupational health telephone were to pass through to the patient and the patient an annual cost billing. I mean, it would be very good for us if we knew how much we got from the state. Transparency would be increased and one would discuss less about some of the costs for each individual or the level of contribution rates in general. I believe that this would certainly be a step in the direction we all want to follow: that a patient is powerful and can assess exactly how much performance has been done on the one hand and how much he himself contributes on the other. I would like these amendments to be implemented. They are in both sense, Mrs Federal Minister, they lead to higher efficiency and lower costs in the case of high professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5545	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5566	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has repeatedly been referred to the national employment plan. I assume that the national employment plan, which focuses on job creation, has indeed opened up essential prospects for Austrian economic policy. A second point, however, is that only successful companies can create jobs. That is why everything has to be done to bring about further business start-ups in Austria. The fact is that since 1996, potential young entrepreneurs have more reason not to take this essential step. It is no longer possible for them to maintain their status as unemployed insurance beyond self-employment. I therefore call for social fairness to be taken over by young entrepreneurs and for us to draw up a model to remove this obstacle to potential young entrepreneurs. I know such cases from my daily practice. For example, since a person worked as a self-employed person for 18 years, he became an independent merchant in the country and after 15 years of self-employed activity had to admit that he was no longer in demand as a close-up provider. At 48 years of age, he stands before the social nothing, as well as his family. . I would like to ask that we come to a model, a solution that meets this requirement. Another point I would like to mention briefly is the Workers' Protection Act. In this context, we expressly welcome the progress of the discussions for the implementation of Article 6 of the Workers' Protection Act, so as to ensure that workplaces with up to 50 employees will be provided with preventive services free of charge from the accident insurance institution in the future. This is an important step towards debureaucratisation. It is also an important step to enable, in particular, smaller businesses to provide safe jobs without having to purchase enormous costs for occupational physicians and safety professionals. In view of the fact that there is a great deal of money to be spent on experts, we welcome the path that has now been taken. Mrs. Federal Minister! We must therefore proceed very quickly to build the necessary infrastructure within the framework of the accident insurance institutions so that at the beginning of 1999 we can actually have the necessary facilities at our disposal. I should like to add a third point, which is important to me. Dr. Stummvoll has already pointed out how important the People's Party is the employment of young people. The employment of young people is the central concern of the social policy of the People's Party. The training companies, but also the parents of apprentices who ask us every day what happens this summer, have high expectations of the new regulation on the forbidden work of young people. I would ask, Mrs Federal Minister, that we find a practical solution in this regard that serves businesses and young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a regulation that is easy to read. We need clear rules, but we also need proper implementation of the EU Youth Protection Directive. I would ask you not to go back to the ambition to become the implementation winner within the EU. I believe that what is valid for all young people in the EU must also be sufficient for our young people in Austria and that we should not give farms the feeling that they are going to be shocked. – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5620	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5642	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot share with the government parties the euphoric assessment of the small shadows that lie on our health system. For me, it says: SOS Medicine. For me, it says: Red alert level. For me, our health system is in front of the collapse. Two things, says Virchow, keep up the progress in medicine: the authority and the system. Where's the authority in our health system? – In the Ministry of Health? – Unbelievable! An example of this: If a new drug is to be approved in Austria, it will first be registered by the Federal Minister for the Federal Ministry. But not only that, but then the social security funds start to discuss indications, medical needs and pharmacology. Now there is to be a new framework agreement. What do you think the institution will fail to approve a new drug? – Of course the Ministry of Health! So, what is the anti-progressive authority? – In the case of social security schemes. What is the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs? – A branch of social insurance, which is still to be abandoned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this way, we are moving towards the second anti-progress factor in this system, namely, the system itself. Not I, but the health economist Professor Christian Köck, a Vienna doctor and Harvard professor, whom you, I think, very well know, considers the domestic health system to be by far the most inconvenient. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In the 19th century, dramatic changes in the demographic development of the industrialized countries have resulted. The life expectancy of a newborn girl rose from 40.6 years to 73.3 years in the period 1902 to 1994. That's an increase of 85 percent! The number of hospital days at a 70-year-old is about seven times that of a 20-year-old. Infectious diseases are pushed back to increase the number of chronic degenerative diseases that are expensive. Modern technology recognizes diseases much earlier. They are therefore also in need of treatment much earlier. – What measures have been taken, and how have these developments been responded to? Ladies and gentlemen! The entire Austrian health system is currently paralysed by a reform stand. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The new funding system leads to a further high hospital burden, to an increase in the recovery rate, to excessive red tape and thus to a loss of quality in the treatment of patients, because the doctors no longer have time. Your own group has asked you, Mrs Minister, how the working time law is being observed, and you yourself have answered it: In more than 50 percent of the cases, the labour inspector has found that it is not observed. This means that the service providers are shy of the costs, the service providers have no interest. How does it look in the settled area? – In the established area, social security schemes have a constant and constant fight against their own contractual doctors. Why? - To maintain her monopoly. They are no longer aware of the social-medical responsibility they actually have. What's it for? – There is a step back to the mother-child passport, not to a contract on home care, to no progress in cash medicine. However, it is necessary to extend the cash registers. There are no new checkout doctors, there are no group practices, no employment of doctors in the checkout area, and all this leads to a risk of home care. A new vaccination law will be adopted, but the vaccine is not available in most federal countries. There are still no actual precautions and no precautions for hepatitis C. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I've been a doctor for 20 years. The discreditation of my profession, as it is currently taking place – it is placed as a cost-provoking, moneyless and without responsibility – has reached an extent that I simply can't tolerate and that's no longer tolerant, not only by our doctors, but also by the patients to whom we still have a very good relationship of trust. You will lose not only the 36 000 doctors in Austria but also the patients and all those in the health professions as voters! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Listen Please stop with these false promises! In the NAP, Mrs Minister, 28 000 new jobs are planned for the health and care sector by the turn of the millennium. Now your own councillor, Sepp Rieder, says it's unrealistic to talk about twenty thousand new posts as long as you want to stick to the cover of health costs. He himself leads this measure ad absurdum. Finally, put in place the constantly hidden rationalization – the cash registers pay only more than 30 percent of the benefits offered throughout the health system – an honest, debated health priority catalogue, which shows what services we want to pay ourselves in the health system in that country and which we are willing to finance! Create You're finally a pot for all public health services! We have nine countries and 28 cash registers. The only thing they actually have in mind is to see how it is most cheap and cheap for them to finance. Ladies and gentlemen! The current health policy is characterised by incompetence, structurallessness and by adhering to obsolete powers. I'll tell Bismarck: Politics, he said, requires of all the ability to intuitively recognize where the way is going in every situation. The stateswoman, the statesman must see things grow up in time and focus on them. If they fail, they usually come too late with their measures. Ladies and gentlemen! SOS in the health system! Take it to heart.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5729	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5750	Mr President. Mrs. Hostasch! High house! If a Member of Parliament regrets that the concerns of 1.5 million people in Austria, who are members of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, are taken into account, and if this Member, as a so-called trade unionist, who pens the word "Nazi" in his own way, by means of a beggar letter to entrepreneurs even in writing confirms that he is aware of the interests of the entrepreneurs in this House, it is for himself that it is not necessary to go into this at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] However, if Mr Collegue says boldly about apprenticeship training – we are very pleased with his words – that the economy in Austria will, as it were, support the new models, then it must be kept in mind that everything was ready for the teaching workshop in Fohnsdorf. Due to the delaying tactics of the Chamber of Commerce and due to the presence of the Minister of Economic Affairs, eight months have passed before this regulation could be implemented. . I hope that this will no longer be the case in the future and that we can speak boldly to colleagues. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: With less money you can train more!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Budget chapter has over 71 billion schilling for social security and over 59 billion schilling for labour market policy. The fact that Mr Kier regrets that this would be a continuation and, at the same time, that it would be called a "stil stand" allows for deep conclusions. Especially in the social field, despite OECD comments, it has succeeded in keeping this standard to the recognised high level – Mrs Federal Minister, I thank you for your clear opinion on this note. So if Mr Kier is talking about "storage", then he can only think of reforms that are at the expense of those people who need the social network most. And Mrs Motter's contribution to the debate in the context of social security and solidarity – I regret it deeply – has, in fact, only underlined these efforts of the Liberal Forum. Ladies and gentlemen! For such "reforms" we are not available to social democrats! We Socialists and Socialists want to make other reforms, such as the opportunity to make permanent tooth replacements much more cost-effective even in cash rambulatories. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also want to fight against illegal employment, because this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is the worst social abuse. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We also want the creation of a waste collection fund in the tourism sector, but we also support the approximation of the legal status of workers and employees. Nevertheless, we are also working on a reorientation of the financing of our social state, for example on the topic of value added taxes addressed by Mrs Reitsam. In contrast to other parties, we do not have resigned future ideas, but we social democrats stand for reforms that benefit all Austrians and that have a broad social consensus, because only in the future can we secure the social peace and the social state in Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5815	Mrs Schaffenrath is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5836	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Povysil said today that we had a health reform stand. I can only underline that. We have a stable reform as well as in all areas. This government has shown clearly that, at least so far, it is unable to reform and is unable to introduce structural reforms. And this will have a great impact on us in the future. In the field of apprenticeship training, there is also a reform stand. If, from this point of view, Mr Collegue boldly advises the Minister of Social Affairs to clarify – I am right in giving him – then he should give the same warning to his Minister of Economic Affairs and to his Minister of Education, because there is still no clarifications from this side. Since I was in this House, reforms on the dual training system have been announced, but have not yet been implemented. We are discussing, in the sense of crisis management, the accommodation of young people, at least externally statistically in relation to our unemployment figures, but real quality improvements in apprenticeship training have not yet been discussed. All the measures planned so far, including the measures now under way, are intended to move the problem. If we do not improve quality, we will have another problem in the future because young people cannot be employed to the necessary extent on the labour market. There is a state of reform in all areas, particularly on women's policy and labour market policy for women. There are still announcements and promises in this regard. Individual measures have been implemented, but they have not been adequate measures. And as long as we treat inequality in women, the consequence must be discrimination. Due to their particular situation in society, women have different life processes which are not adequately balanced in the context of this social system in Austria. All your promises, all the measures you have taken, have not worked. There is disproportionately rising unemployment among women, and there is a much longer residence of women in unemployment. And we have a falling employment rate in women. And, of course, the attempt of the neoconservative forces in this House has become clear, which is very much supporting the trend "Women at home to the stove". In other words, despite your policy, the situation of women in Austria has not improved, but unfortunately worsened. There were announcements in the shell and fullness. I just remember some: Qualification measures for women in order to counteract the rate of discrimination still very high in the field of education in Austria. We heard your announcements to promote girls at schools to counteract the gender segmentation of the labour market. There were announcements to ensure all women's social rights in order to free women from dependence and poverty. There were countless announcements towards re-evaluation of work. – And what was actually implemented by it? I am talking, above all, about the qualification measures for women – and not only that the funds for active labour market policies in Austria are the lowest in terms of European comparison. Women are also not presented with targeted but necessary offers. Women's projects, women's qualification measures are being starved, not least because of a lost apprenticeship. There is no comprehensive targeted support for girls at schools, although this was called for by our side by means of specific applications, but which were not supported by the government parties. We still have a purely discussional status when it comes to compulsory insurance. Mrs. Minister! They have said from this point of view that co-insurance would be an essential instrument of family policy. We are, when it comes to re-evaluation of work, not a single step further, there is not yet a single approach. Mrs Silhavy! You have said that you do not stand for such a policy. I hope that you, as a SPÖ woman, do not support such a form of women's policy. What is the importance of women's policy in the SPÖ ranks has probably been made clear here in this House by the shameful result in connection with women's-popular desire. I will not yet forgive the SPÖ that it has not even been able to get through to "promote" the inappropriate word "promote" for a constitution by "obliging" and that it has agreed to such a sluggish formulation when it comes to the constitutional protection of women. In other words, in all these areas, reform inability is represented. [[Abg. Steibl: Nice speaking!]] I have given up any hope that there will be substantial improvements under this government, especially as a result of the current two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5883	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5904	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In view of some of the contributions I should like to make, Mrs Federal Minister, to regret that you are responsible in a country in which so much is going wrong. However, I can congratulate you on having been able, together with us in recent years and decades, to make an excellent social and health policy in this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course one can question one thing or another, of course there are trends in development, but I do not think that the quality and performance of our system should be questioned, but rather the attitude with which social and health policy is discussed. I believe that we must insist that social and health policies should serve the interests of the citizens and not individual interests of the groups, however well they may be meant. That's our goal, and we can't and won't come by. If criticism of income representations of individuals, of individual cases of benefit, and also of standard system criticisms of social security institutions, then it must be said that this is nothing new: We've heard that for many years, and we'll hear it for many more years. However, I am still lacking a constructive proposal for one area or another. If you already know everything better, then these things should be presented as they are. As this was spoken of by the nested system loops, I ask you: Have you not noticed how many areas have undergone tremendous changes in recent weeks and months? – We will continue to follow these developments clearly and committedly in the future. I believe that our task must be to maintain and create work in this country. We're dealing with a phenomenon: On the one hand, we have as many employees as never before, but we also have too high an unemployment rate. This is not a question at all, and that is why we need to get involved in this, because every unemployed person has a single fate, which causes distress in the life of a human being. Work is to be seen in the most diverse way – not only in the area of the self-employed, but also in the area of self-employed. We should also recognize today and here that there are thousands of Austrians who are entering as young entrepreneurs, who have the courage to face the challenge and other people are working with it. We should also make it clear that we bear the responsibility, especially in the agricultural sector, to ensure that further departures after feasibility are avoided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, any departure from this area entails a burden on the labour market, on which it is already scarce. I think that is why we are all in favour of each other. We need answers to important questions, such as the pension scheme, higher life expectancy, early retirement, new and very long, too long, compared to earlier times, a new relationship between employees and pensioners. Let's open this up once! We have 3.05 million employees, and we have almost 2 million pensioners. This is a reason why we are responding to it. We have also referred to this development with regard to the social law amendment laws, but we will need further developments. If we have nearly 2 million pensioners and 270 000 of them are compensation recipients, then, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we also need action here. These are people who have worked the same way as everyone else, but who today have a bad income and expect us to meet them with the appropriate social feeling and with extensive responsibility and continue to help them. Especially in the agricultural sector, we were able to achieve a considerable improvement last year, but we still have a lot to improve. If it has been said several times today that the surplus in the statutory health insurance system amounting to 1.5 billion schillings is an insanity that it would be high time to redistribute it, then I may ask you to think once. The legal social security scheme, some of which hold nothing at all, is really good, and this has also shown the latest opinion poll: More than 87 percent of the citizens say that is something they can rely on; they give a good assessment. If we have completed 1997 with a surplus of 1.5 billion, we must see that in relation to total performance. This is more than 120 billion schilling, which is why this surplus is less than 1 percent. I believe that the one who comes here and says that this has to be re-distributed, we have to create new flows of expenditure, lines of expenditure, does not recognise the seriousness of the situation, and I have to assume that I am not responsible for it. Ladies and gentlemen! We have done good work in the field of social and health policy in this country in recent years and decades. We will continue to move along this path, and the 1999 budget gives us a reliable, good basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e5981	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! 100 000 new jobs in five years, right up to 2002, and an unemployment rate to be reduced to 3.5 percent, as stated in the National Employment Plan. Only 50 000 new jobs have already been promised to us at EU accession – in fact, they have been reduced by 80 000 jobs. In the insurance sector, in the banking sector, in the railway sector, there have been 10,000 jobs less so far. Although the stock prices and the petrol price are rising at the OMV, the number of employees is getting smaller and smaller. By 2001 10 000 jobs will be less planned for the post office. The whole result, of course, is more early pensioners, more unemployed and more emergency workers. The paper-maker called the National Employment Action Plan provides for the creation of more 28 000 jobs through this national employment plan in the services sectors of social, health, health and environmental professions. This is all right and beautiful, but it is also in the NAP that over the next five years there will be 15 000 jobs in the raw materials industry, 15 000 in the construction industry, 23 000 in the textile sector and 5 000 in the food sector. All this results in 58 000 jobs less. If you calculate this, you can see: This does not result in 28 000 jobs, but 30 000 jobs less. 20 000 to 30 000 jobs – in this action plan on the other hand – are to be created by an active labour market policy. So those who no longer find work on the construction, in the food industry, in the textile industry or in the raw materials industry should find a job again by re-training. But each one of us knows that those first to be terminated are usually older. A person who is over 50 years of age and who participates in re-training is in principle only out of the unemployment statistics, does not count, but the re-training does not bring him anything at all, because he is nowhere more. That is a fact, unfortunately! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Wifi and BFI who carry out retrainings benefit from it, but there are no more people employed there. There are no more people employed in the BFI or in the wifi! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: There it is seen that you are not in practice, for otherwise you knew that this is not so!]] There are no more employees, there is no more employment. In addition, 70 000 to 80 000 new jobs should be created by improving the economy. Economic growth of 2.5 percent is expected to increase employment in Austria. – I just wonder how the economy in Austria should grow. Because in view of the "founder wave", which this Federal Government strongly promoted, it must be noted that: In the first quarter of 1998, 12 percent fewer holdings are registered. 1 333 companies were deleted from the company book. There are currently 276 400 companies in Austria. The obstacles to the absence of this "founder wave" lie, on the one hand, in the high registration fees for commercial rights and in the fact that someone who wants to become self-employed has twenty thousand shillings, although there are already enough burdens, because one must invest when starting as a self-employed person. Another obstacle, of course, is the high tax and tax rate, which has reached a peak of 44.8 percent, which has never been achieved in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Austria, the level of real income and therefore the purchasing power also decreases. The wage tax has reached dimensions beyond good and evil. Since 1989, when the wage tax in Austria was charged with 88 billion schilling, it has climbed to 183 billion schilling in 1997. That's more than double. There was 95 billion schilling more in wage tax revenue within eight years. They want to delay a wage tax reduction and do a wage tax reform only in 2000. However, you must consider: Of course, less purchasing power also means less economic growth, and growth does not result from wage reduction and restrictions on workers' rights, but only from productive consumers. So far, the EU's fair has only affected workers. If workers continue to be under pressure, demand will have to be very simple, and only productive demand can keep the economy in swing and secure jobs in the longer term. Ladies and gentlemen! This is so clear that I am surprised that this Federal Government and the employers' representatives in this House simply do not want to see this. In Austria today, the real economy is being run by and the purchasing power of self-employed is weakened. Thus, jobs in Austria are destroyed, so the economy itself suffocates demand and then stays on its products. A big businessman, the auto producer Henry Ford, once said: Cars don't buy cars. My employees must earn so much that they can also buy my cars. – Please do so in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6060	Mrs Pittermann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6081	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pumberger has again given the debate a terrifying level. I wonder what level he has as a doctor when he evaluates the data protection of patients, even if they are not his own! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is very unfortunate to talk about a patient, even if she is the wife of a prominent woman. I wish for all patients that nothing can be said about their data. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If today your Secretary-General was so sorry that a letter was found with someone who obviously did not act correctly, and it came to the public, I must say: The transmission of patient data is much more worrying to me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But data clause and data protection have never played a role for you when it came to you! You are only whining when it comes to your person. If your research on my person corresponds to the quality of your diagnosis, I can only regret your patients! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's already the bottom load!]] If you think Members should not have a profession otherwise, you say so. Then you have to discuss that. As far as I know, you're an established practical doctor, you're a municipal doctor, you're a house pharmacy. You are also capable of doing this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Pumberger is a very popular doctor in his home country! Very popular!]] – It may be. His diagnosis may be as good as his research. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] I would now like to come to my real speech, namely the quality of our medical care, which is particularly high in our country and which the patients use from embryonic stage to death, and they want it at any time, at all times, to be optimal and unlimited. Point one of the health policy is the prophylaxis: starting with mother-child passport examinations on vaccination programmes and school-care. This is the only way to prevent exorbitant costs. Only the prophylaxis makes this possible. Medical progress, in which we all want to participate, increases the cost of health care. It can already be read in newspapers that in England as in Germany stem cell transplants are not approved in the case of severely ill patients and that serotonin antagonists are also not administered in cytostatic chemotherapy – something that is natural in our country. 30 years ago, in Austria, patients died of acute leukemia and some lymphoma forms within days to months; today they have real healing opportunities. The recruitment of foreign donors by a well-equipped central facility is important; a fan in several has only inhibiting effect. This facility must be able to employ employees with experience in such a way that it remains for a long time, and it should also have a well-equipped laboratory, as it is often sought under time pressure. I would like to express a special praise: Our bone marrow donor center usually finds the most appropriate within four months, if there is a possible donor. International donors have been found for 140 Austrian patients since 1990, and 52 Austrians have donated for international patients. The stem cells are derived from experienced transfusion physicians who carry out the donor education in order to avoid conflicts of interest. With the scarcity of resources comes the demand for death aid we vehemently reject social democrats. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] In my 27 years of activity, I was never seriously asked for death aid, although I care for patients with severe to death. I would also welcome hospice facilities in all acute hospitals, especially in the university clinics, to the teaching and detabilization of the dying for gymnasticians and students. The challenge of the future is the age structure of the people and thus the cerebral patient. 1999 is the "year of the brain", and I assume that it is also committed accordingly by the Health Fund. Our social democrats are concerned about precautionary medicine as well as general and top-notch medicine. We are proud that we are in the forefront of the EU. We will continue to expand this position and therefore agree to the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6168	Mr Dr. Pumberger spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6192	Mr President. Mrs Pittermann claimed that I would have violated the data protection by passing on patient data. I am actually correct in saying that I have not passed on patient data, nothing that has not been published in the media for many years. So the knowledge I have announced today was no more and no less than that already made accessible to all Austrians by the media. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: This is data protection unprotected!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Of course this is a violation of data protection!]] Secondly, I should like to correct the remarks made by Mrs Gredler, who claimed that the wife of Exbundeskanzler Vranitzky had no alternative but to fly the cost of 60 000 D-Mark by economic flight with companion to Hanover. I am indeed correct in saying that it is customary for a normal Austrian insured and a normal Austrian to transport the institution to Austria, and that the "normal" compulsory insured person is planted in Austria and that the flight costs are therefore to be estimated at zero.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6261	Mrs Haller has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6282	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Budgets and budget debates on and on the part of citizens are relatively uninterested. Citizens, people are much more interested in what can be moved by such budgets for people. If I look at the 1999 budget – I'm not the first one to see it – then I have to say that this budget is not moving! It is just a continuation of the 1998 budget, and I am not the first to note that there are no reform approaches. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is a subject that is currently moving people very much, and that is the increasing unemployment. They have presented us with the National Employment Action Plan. However, in this 1999 budget, I find no approaches to this National Action Plan, and this action plan is very exciting. You promise 100 000 jobs, you speak of a good starting point. They have graphically divided the NAP into four columns, and it naturally generates, as it stands on the paper, the hope of the reader. From a liberal point of view, I simply have to say: This National Action Plan, as it is written, is without anchorage in the budget, a middle thing between the wish concert and a letter to the Christkind – and not anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ==References====External links== April notes that this NAP is a "job package with birth defects", then he knows for sure what he is talking about. He says there is a huge delay in the start by the fact that nothing is available in the 1999 budget. A total of 3.2 billion shillings are missing for implementation, and it is estimated with caution that in the initial phase, in the early implementation phase, even jobs are lost, 7 000 are lost in the number. Here was a certain parallel: We have also been promised jobs when we joined the EU. What happened? - We lost that. It really raises the question now: Is the NAP just a child with birth defects – or is this child not at all viable at all, and should it only serve to sidetrack from this great concern that really afflicts people? Once again, it is the women who are particularly suffering from the development of the labour market. We all know that. It was published a few days ago in Tyrol a Chamber of Workers survey, in which it is widely read as a headline: The women are on the loser side. So now we have it officially, even by the Chamber of Workers. Workers' Chamber President Fritz Dinkhauser said in his usual nuclear manner: Far from the Middle Ages we are not here, we have created modern servants! – We really need to consider whether we are on the right path in the area of social policy for women and where we are actually the starting points in this budget. – I can't find her anyway, Mrs. Federal Minister. I have a great deal to ask myself about this National Employment Action Plan. In the context of Pillar 1 under the title "Development of new jobs", you write that you see the greatest chance in the field of social services. There is the greatest growth possible. I even give you the right to: They want to enter into agreements between labour market services and certain social institutions, involving long-term unemployed, and to provide at least two years of transition to get new jobs in these areas. But I ask you one, Mrs. Federal Minister: What happens after these two years? Do you really think that these institutions can then work economically – or is that just a certain "storage place" for women, as you do with apprentices at the moment? The questions remain unanswered to this day, and I will probably not get an answer from you either, but the future will show the direction of social policy in the area of women. I have always been particularly committed to women's affairs in the Committee on Social Affairs. This is partly about small concerns – you know all of this, Mrs. Federal Minister – whether this was the creation of farm kindergartens, a gender-neutral arrangement of night work, the training of day mothers, the increase of farmer's weekly allowance. These were the areas I have been working on in recent years. And now we wanted to point out to the liberals that one should try to remove the risk of caring from the companies. - We haven't heard a reaction so far. I also have to say the following: My criticism is not only to you, Mrs Federal Minister, but also to the women of the ÖVP who are with you in this government. According to a "Kurier" article last week, the ÖVP women care about us women in the Freedom Party. Mrs Horngacher, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, and Mrs Steibl, too, are concerned that we are setting free women down with men in the Freedom Party. – I say to you: Do you know where you went down all those years? – In social policy for women! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you have always had to put back, there is nothing to hear from you, and I have not heard anything from you today, except always declarations of intent. The economy has always been your priority here. So: Please do not worry about us, but you may also be concerned that in your own series no more such verbal derailments are happening in the style of your "Generalin", Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, because it was terrifying what Mrs. Rauch-Kallat has given of herself from this pult! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead, worry about Austria's women and about an evocative social policy for women! I think then we could really take one step forward.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6372	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6394	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, health policy should cover all areas of life: from baby age to old age, from housing policy to education policy to transport policy. I personally would like to focus today on precautionary medicine, because I am convinced that it will still be of considerable importance. High house! However, precautionary medicine represents only a small financial size in the 1999 budget estimate. And I mean, Mrs. Federal Minister, although some things have happened: In the precautionary medicine we need a total effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, when we analyse demographic developments closely, it turns out that the care of the sick, of those in need of care, will increase in brisance over the next few years. We know that already a third of the Austrian population is over 50 years old, and in just a few decades, this figure will rise to 50 percent. In turn, this means: Caregiven old sick people will become more. How can we respond positively to this trend, where at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the number of family aid structures such as single budgets is increasing? We need a health policy in Austria that allows for ageing in health. I now ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: In our health policy, have we already taken this development into account in the social field? Do you think that the precautionary measures are sufficiently advanced, or do we need to pick up some more in this area? I believe that prevention must already take place in the earliest youth, and four priorities: First: The public's health awareness needs to be strengthened. Secondly, Education and health education must be carried out by all organisations. Thirdly, An improvement in the supply of precautions must be speeded up. And fourthly, and here I appeal to ourselves, ladies and gentlemen: The personal responsibility of each individual must be strengthened. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would first like to mention four priorities, which I believe must set priorities: first, the mother-child passport examination, second, the appreciation of the school doctors, third, the precautionary examination and fourth, a special care and analysis of home, leisure and sports accidents. The mother-child passport examination has been highly criticised and analysed in recent months and years. I believe that only from a financial point of view, the number of mother-child passport examinations should not actually be reduced. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] And I am glad that the responsible Minister for Family Affairs has put forward an initial action in this regard, namely to inform all families in which toddlers live. The second area is the appreciation of the school doctors. Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that there are overlaps between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education here. But if only 200 schoolchildren in Vienna ten years ago have collected the school doctors' advice and today already 12,000, this proves how urgent it is to upgrade the school doctors. Third point: Health tests. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is an intolerable state that this good establishment, which exists in Austria, is only used by 8 per cent of the population. In my opinion, education, education and reconnaissance are absolutely necessary here. We know that the most important "medicine" we have in Austria – the human blood – is actually considered very differentiated. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think we are going to be in conformity when I think we have to thank all the blood donors in Austria who are ready to pass on this most important "medicine" to those who need it in an emergency situation, in the event of accidents, in the event of operations. My thanks go to all blood donors, but also to all the officials of clubs who motivate the club members to donate blood. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: The Chairman of the Health Committee – his sign of the municipal doctor – has been criticizing the willingness of doctors and the LKF over the last few weeks. – Today this is practiced with the SOS-Medicine badge. I would also like to quote Mr Pumberger from the medical journal, who said: Who is to take Austrian medicine out of the trash? And on top of that: Farmers fall from July ’98 through the red horse. - Quote. Whoever considers Austrian health policy so negative does not make any hope! We from the government parties believe that policy with far-sightedness and responsibility is better than such negative messages.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6494	I call Mr Blünegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6515	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Federal Minister has warmly praised her so beloved NAP, but we have already heard enough about the national employment plan of this Federal Government. We were able to see that this is a pact of false hope for the production of a paper that is not worth much. I am not only saying this because I believe this, but also because it is also heard from the coalition. Among other things, a high social Democrat, AK President Tumpel, criticised this NAP. This is also often said in the paper, Mrs. Minister. Mr President, from the economic point of view, it was Mr Maderthaner, who did not praise this NAP but also criticised it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Müller.]] Of course, we liberals can just as censure him, and we will always point out the weaknesses. My colleague Sigi Dolinschek has already brought a wonderful example today – I would like to mention it again –: It is a fact that this government builds on this employment plan, but completely forgets that the fight against unemployment is really about thousands of employees in Austria. And this can be proved again, Mr Dolinschek said: There are 4 500 early retirements and 1,500 releases at the post office – and all this still in this year. And what is happening with the Austrian Federal Railways in this regard, we know. But now to the Federal Minister. 80 percent of the labour market service funds are bound, and of these 80 percent, if you want to make something new again, 1 billion schilling is missing today, just to maintain the level of 1997! The labour market service states that different programmes must be deleted and 7 000 people sent back to unemployment. Mrs. Federal Minister! This is not a modern employment policy for us. All workers' potentials should be exposed, all workers should be animated into business creations, and existing companies should be relieved. – These are our demands for you! We liberals know that these are probably all foreign words in this government. You, Mrs Federal Minister, called in your Social Report in 1996 for a restriction on the re-admission of foreign labour, and yet this Federal Government is pursuing a faster enlargement of the East, which will not secure the standards and lead to a competition for eviction. The structural change in the East will release millions of workers who will then push into the West and, of course, represent a major problem for us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The National Action Plan is not enough to employ 300,000 unemployed. I therefore call on you from this point of view to anchor the "right to work" in the Constitution which is now much in the headlines. Since the ÖGB and the AK are now making themselves strong for this problem, I would like to quote from a paper I made 19 years ago. That was already a demand from our liberal workers – I quote – at the time: The right to work is therefore to be considered as a fundamental right and to be anchored in the Constitution. And on top of that: This constitutional right to work is primarily intended to require the State to promote the labour market and a structural policy aimed at high employment. - Quote. This is a paper that you can still use today, but that's now 19 years old! It is recognized that this federal government is always adorned with services that have not been provided at all. – This was up to 19 years ago and has not yet been realized! I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our employment policy in this single government coalition. Then this government would no longer be faced with a social and employment-political squabble, which the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues have to share. In any case, we liberals will not agree to the Social Budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6594	Mrs Sophie Bauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6618	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion on the 1999 Federal estimates, I would like to say that 530 million schilling is intended for labour market policy measures. Of these, 415 million Schilling are for the positive promotion of the labour market and 125 million Schilling for active labour market promotion. The budget for redundancies aid, which is used to support job placements, is 10,490 million schilling. This has resulted in an increase in labour market promotion. How important it is that financial resources are available for work grants and fund-like institutions, the following figures show: Currently 79 foundations are set up in Austria. In Styria alone, we have installed 21 foundations. Foundations are set up for a variety of reasons, such as regional foundations, industry foundations, insolvency foundations or corporate foundations. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1997, a total of 781 persons attended Foundations and Retrainings, 500 of whom were men and 275 of whom were women under 50 years of age, but more than 50 were also involved. If one considers that 80 to 100 percent of workers participating in a foundation or re-training can be re-entered into the labour market, this is a great success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that this high level of intermediation in the labour market is possible is due to the training that takes account exclusively of what is needed in the labour market. Last week, the presentation of the professional planning of 27 women and men of our company foundation took place. These 27 women and men have created their new vocational orientation and planning themselves in the time of just ten weeks. I would like to point out that the people concerned are unemployed workers who have worked mainly in the chord for more than 20 years. However, these men and women have taken advantage of their opportunity offered them by the Foundation to learn a new profession or to re-training them to find employment on the labour market. That is why, as an employee representative of the National Employment Action Plan, the Federal Government's objective of creating 100 000 more jobs, is an important point for me. Of course, measures to ensure equal opportunities for men and women, which are also provided for in the Action Plan, are also important. I would like to conclude by thanking the Federal Minister and her team very much for their commitment to ensuring that so much can be done in the field of employment policy to help those affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6673	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6695	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In spite of this, it must be said that the social policy in Austria is in good hands, that the social rate in Austria is still very high and can really be seen on the European average from comparable countries. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] In particular, I would like to highlight three areas in a positive way. The first is the comprehensive health insurance. In this context, Mr Oellinger quoted a writer from the USA. However, it must be said that people in the USA cannot imagine that there are 99 per cent infirmaries in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Exactly!]] That is why this statement is not appropriate here. However, I would like to stress once again to the ÖVP how social and family policy is important to us co-insurance for children and non-working wives. It is truly a merit – and I believe that in a budget debate one has to remove these merits too – that there are at least 2.7 million co-insurers in 5 million self-insurers. I mean, this is a social and family policy achievement that we should not go away from. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second thing I want to highlight very positively – it has already been quoted several times today – is: In the field of pension and pension provision, Austria is world champion, especially if one also calculates the care provision. Let us consider only the data from the last social report: From 1970 to 1996, pensions rose by 316 percent, the consumer price index at that time by 211 percent. I think that only speaks for the high pensions. We can really say we're world champions. We have done everything we can to ensure good retirement. And even if you look into the poverty report, you can read that today older people in Austria are only more than 2% at risk of poverty. This is a very good policy in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I would also like to say, of course, as a woman and as an EIA politician, that there is still a lot ahead of us in the area of women's policy. Increasing female unemployment is certainly a drops of advertising and challenges us to set much more emphasis on this. The low private pension of women is also a advertising drop in the pension area. We know that, we know the data. They show how large the differences in self-employed men and women remain. I would like to stress, Mrs Minister, that there is still no insurance for divorced women, especially for women who have been married for a very long time, who have been divorced late and who have not been employed. I believe that we must look at this, and I would ask you to give your consent to the ÖVP's supply compensation model in order to find a solution. Also, the fact that child rearing is still not a source of pension is for us a drops of advertising, as is the fact that women born before 1956 are not counted as child rearing at all. In general, it is to be said that great challenges await us and that securing jobs and creating new jobs for the Austrians are the most important concern we have to bring to the government here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Active employment policy is needed in all areas: in the youth sector, in women, in every age range. As a Member of this House, I would like to thank the ORF for the "Ö3" action to create new jobs, which, I believe, are about 250 companies willing to create about 1,000 new apprenticeships. [[Abg. Gaugg: More achieved than the Federal Government!]] I believe that if we take action together and raise awareness, we will continue to be able to demonstrate our social policy, our labour market policy on the European average. That is my wish – therefore, approval for the 1999 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6775	Mrs Hannelore Buder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6800	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Back to the budget on health. I note that there are 5 435.7 million schilling for health care, even if it is criticized. And I think you can do a lot of work with this money and try to make the most of it. For health promotion, there are 100 million schillings under the Health Promotion Act, which we recently adopted, and for the mother-child passport 519 million schillings are planned, which is 2 million schillings more than in the previous year. With 1. In January 1997, the birth grant was removed – there is now only a premium of 2 000 s after the first year of life of the child – and it is already very unfortunate that the research discipline of the Austrian women – the women, the mothers – actually fell by 8.7 percent; in the Styria by 6.8 percent. It is only gratifying that the memory system works, because also in Styria, where health counsellor Dörflinger was a pioneer, 2.5 million schilling is planned for 1998. I think the money is well arranged if the ten studies are used between the finding of pregnancy and the fourth birthday of the child. However, financial support should not be the sole factor in making these investigations. I think the responsibility for itself and, of course, for the child must be met. I'd like to talk to the smokers for a moment. Tobacco advertising was prohibited in the EU Parliament, and sponsorship for tobacco products is also expected to fall with transitional periods until October 2006. I'm glad that's in 50. Year of the existence of the World Health Organization a woman as Director-General is at the forefront, it is Gro Harlem Brundtland, and she takes office at 21. July on. I am pleased that in addition to combating malaria, their priorities include combating cigarette consumption. Unfortunately, if you have to read again in the APA today that Austria is scored tobacco in cigarette sales. – This is probably a pleasure to the Minister of Finance, but of course not to the health politicians. In another APA report, it says: "Blue Dunst fogged brain performance in old age." I do not think that many old people are inside, and no one should feel affected either. According to a new study, smoking accelerates the early aging of the brain. The researchers at Erasmus University in Rotterdam found out in studies of 9 000 people over 65 years of age that the ability to remember and to learn in smokers decreased significantly more than in non-smokers." . I believe that this report should, after all, continue to promote the goal of health policy to influence young people and convince them to try not to start smoking at all. We have a small survey in Parliament this week on the occasion of the World Non-Smoker Day, under the motto: Less tobacco, more health. I think it would be very good if, for example, the chairman of the Health Committee would also take part in it and progress with good example, but just as he has spoken here today, I cannot imagine that he is setting a good example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to talk about rehabilitation from the point of view of health care. I have two houses in my district of pension insurance for workers who are working on rehabilitation, in Bad Aussee and in Gröbming. These two houses really try their best – with the latest methods, with good equipment, of course also with good staff and with doctors who try to get people back into the work process, or if they are already in retirement, to allow them a better life again. I think that these rehabilitation centres need to be provided again and again. And I think it's good that there are them. There are also very good models of part-time work, especially for women. Women should be able to reconcile work and family, and this is best done with different working time models. And I think that if social, mental and physical health met together, then of course you would have achieved perfect health. However, it is probably still a long way to go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6864	Mrs Steibl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6885	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We, the European countries, need a debate on which tasks the state can fulfil in the future, and not a debate on how it is being conducted on a large scale by three parties, which the state, especially the government parties, is not supposed to be able to do. My colleague, Mr Gatterer, has already said that we are in the forefront, particularly in the social field. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger said that the ÖVP would have voted in favour of social policy. I can only say that – and this also applies to the FPÖ – that we have neither a stable of reform nor anything else, but excellent Members like Gottfried Feurstein, my colleagues who work immensely, or Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer or Mr Bartenstein, who, together with Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch, have carried on a great deal for the benefit of the people. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's right!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if colleague Haidlmayr, who is not present now, points out every time she speaks about the disadvantages that disabled people have to face, I allow myself to say – I have a protected job in my own unit – that these people have a very difficult life, but sometimes one must also recognize boundaries and can only share something for the benefit of these people. If it has been said today that the government would have passed its decision on women's policy, I must stop this, Mrs Schaffenrath, that it is not with pity, what seems to be going on and what is going on, but only with concrete proposals which we have also made in the course of the discussion of women's desire. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's right!]] We also need to go the way to lead people to independence. And I think that the task of those responsible in the social state must be not to fight unemployment, but rather unemployment. The social state should be a security network against risks that cannot be effectively covered in private markets. Since today my clubman has been mentioned, I would just like to say that there are others who are also considering the restructuring of the social state. I've got the "Kurier" of 9. December 1996, in which then Federal Minister Hums says: Our goal cannot be that for years we simply pay out emergency aid to people. We want to give people a job, not money. – I think you just have to discuss that. However, I still have a request to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the discussion which is going back on every year, about the different wages of men and women. I think we need action more than ever, and I am not of the opinion of Mrs Schmidleithner, who says that a study would be sufficient. That's where we have to sit. We must negotiate with the social partners and the economy so that there are no serious differences in the wage for equal work between men and women. In this sense, I think, we are on a good path, especially with the national employment plan. Of course, we of the ÖVP agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6952	Mr Hums has been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e6974	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! 3 minutes are enough for just a few keywords. After the necessary and certainly not always painless budget consolidations in recent years, the 1999 budget provides a solid basis for our good social and health system. One in a short time. At the beginning of the debate, Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, said that the budget consolidation, our budget today, is due to the bowl course. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Right!]] I am pleased to say that there is again more resources for active labour market policy. If the Dr. Schusel course had been completed, we would have cut by one billion in 1995 – at that time only 5 billion for active labour market policy. Cuisine course: 1 billion fewer, i.e. 4 billion schilling for active labour market policy. – Next year we will have over 8 billion Schilling budget. The school course would have meant that in 1996 the retirement age would have been increased by two years to 62 years for a long period of insurance; it would have meant more youth unemployment. [[Abg. Kiss: Don't tell any stories!]] One who didn't believe in it at the time was Dr. Ditz, he wasn't quite convinced by Dr. Schüssel. [[Abg. Kiss: The fairy tale hour is over!]] In the meantime, he has introduced an early retirement scheme of 55 years at the post office. [[Abg. Kiss: Staribacher is passé!]] I just wanted to say that. In the meantime, Dr. Schüssel learned that he's coming from a good school. And this is the basis for the fact that the coalition is currently on very good terms to keep our social system with a social and constructive budget. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And by the way: Dr. Pumberger, your completely unsustainable attacks on the wife of the former Chancellor are probably also in your career, so I hope your low level in morals!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7061	Mr Grossruck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7083	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Hums, one thing you will already admit to us, I believe that the Staribacher course would have gone in the wrong direction and that the bowl course has only allowed us to enjoy the budget figures today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Under Staribacher we would have had a deficit of 200 billion and more. So you have to admit the truth in the first place. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Many speakers have already praised our excellent social and health system – and I would like to say that it is right. We are an example throughout Europe as regards the figures for the data. We have the second lowest unemployment figures in the European Union, although they are still too high. We have a health system to envy other countries. I do not think we in Austria need to let ourselves be given tips from outside or to give ourselves tips, which would be best for us, for example the American system. Mrs Gatterer mentioned it earlier: A comprehensive health system is almost nowhere else than in Austria. I therefore believe that the Americans could take a bond with us and look a little away and not look at America. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second: Yesterday, the French Minister of Finance – I believe he is called Dominique Strauss – was in Austria and spoke about the reduction of the number of unemployed in the form that he at least set up the thesis for France: Less working time results in fewer unemployed. One could continue this bill and say that if we had zero working time, then we would have zero unemployment at all. [[Abg. Gaál: A bad bill!]] So I think the debate should be held in such a way that there are models for reduction, but there is no general model that can be considered as a cure. We in Austria have always reduced working hours only if the economic data were so good that we could afford it. The invoice: Less work, more have, it doesn't go up. We don't need higher mathematics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Minister! Despite this excellent system, there are large stitches in the social system network, through which some still fall through, there are stitches that are too large for some. I think every mayor – there are some inside here – can sing a song of how many sad single-chicks there are, in spite of our excellent social system. My suggestion It is whether it is possible to imagine setting up such a thing as a Federal Social Fund, through which it is possible to help precisely those cases that fall through the rust. One could sponsor this Social Fund from budget resources, but at the same time ensure that perhaps voluntary contributions are also tax deductible and could thus be fed to this pot. It is an inspiration for those who really have no chance and no opportunity to make a life-worthy life with the measures we are currently taking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second suggestion, Mrs Minister, is a small matter, but also very many, namely those who have to make a permanent therapy, which means they have to take medication permanently, whether these are people with high blood pressure, bleeding, Parkinson's disease or other patients. I think here we have an abuse in that the packs for these drugs are so small that these patients have to go to the doctor and the pharmacy almost every week to get a prescription and then the medicine. I believe that a small turning on the screw could help those who have already been operated by illness and who, in addition to their illness, have to take on bureaucratic obstacles. On behalf of those permanent diseases that can no longer live without medication, I ask you to consider providing larger tranches and larger packaging units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7163	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7185	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few thoughts on the positive development of the Austrian hospitals. Until 1996, day-to-day financing was carried out – a system which did not provide any incentives to save and which also led to two-digit percentages of cost increases and cost explosion. The reform measures launched in 1997, in particular the introduction of the LKF system, aimed at effectively exploiting existing resources – naturally while maintaining high quality of supply – and at limiting the cost increase. The first interim report from the spring of this year is a positive report. The expected effects have occurred. Shorter latch duration, more redundancies before weekends, more daily clinical benefits result in a marked decrease in the rate of cost increase. If the rate of increase in 1993 was still 10 percent, it was 2.36 percent in 1996, because of the introduction of the LKF Parallel Account this year, and an increase of 2% in 1997. The average duration of lay-out in the first half of 1997 is expected to fall and is currently less than seven days. Of course, the development of lay-back life within the meaning of the LKF system will require the increased expansion of necessary care structures in the extra-mural care sector in the next few years, as well as the creation of additional rehabilitation and care facilities. A number of quality assurance and quality control activities have been started in parallel with the reform of this new institution funding. In the field of quality in the hospital today, more concrete measures and projects are being carried out than ever before. The Federal Minister has already presented a comprehensive package of measures on quality in health care in November of the previous year. In February of this year, the project Quality in the hospital, which is started at the same time in eleven hospitals in all the federal states, was presented to the public, and in February, a quality assurance survey was organised in Austrian institutions, where further activities were presented. We have also reaped international praise for this Austrian reform path. The OECD issued very good notes in its report and confirmed this positive judgment again in the second half of 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! This successful path, which continues to be difficult, is continued and secured by the 1999 budget. I would therefore ask you to give your approval to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7246	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Maderthaner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7267	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary finding: Some of the debates included comments such as: You have taken too much into account the interests of the economy again! or: That's where the economy has gone! to hear it out. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a clear statement on this: An excellent economic policy is a prerequisite for a good social and health policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a good social policy, we have a good health policy, and that requires a lot of things: a functioning economy. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, the discussions on the social and health budget chapters are taking place in order to highlight some of the issues which are crucial for Austrian businesses and hence also for society as a whole. If you want efficient businesses to secure jobs, those who want to have businesses that create new jobs, you must not make this difficult or impossible through bureaucracy and high costs. It is therefore time to take up some necessary reforms here too. In particular, we expect the reduction of the minimum contribution base for business founders, special arrangements for micro-enterprises and the reduction of the provisions on the loss of entitlement to unemployment insurance for self-employed persons, and thus on the creation of new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not at all clear, ladies and gentlemen, that someone who has been self-employed for ten or twenty years will then be self-employed and that perhaps the company he founded will not be able to lose any entitlement to unemployment benefit, i.e. he will no longer be able to have the money he has paid. There must be corrections here! Ladies and gentlemen! The rapid implementation of these projects, which have been negotiated for a long time and which have already been blessed by the experts this spring, if I may say so, in Rust, is particularly in the immediate interest of all the employees here in Austria. Many of the young people who want to make themselves independent are afraid of the high financial burden and the bureaucratic jungle before a business start-up. Here it is necessary to correct. Because of many expenditures, but especially because of high investment costs, especially during the founding phase – we know that – all incidental costs and social and tax charges should be kept as low as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say a word here on the registration fee to the Chamber of Commerce, since it is always cited as a reason for setting up a business. This registration fee for Chambers is about 5 000 S for individual entrepreneurs, equivalent to about one tenth of all the other costs incurred by an individual operator during the start-up. So please don't make any legends! For this contribution, however, every young businessman also receives a special offer of consultation, which is far more valuable than this 5 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! The derogations for micro-enterprises should help to enable, in particular, secondary commercial activities – I emphasize: by-work – which was not legally feasible for financial reasons. In the future, for example, a housewife or a student could earn at least a few thousands per month for a small contribution to accident insurance. This would be an opportunity to open up additional sources of income and make it possible for more people to become entrepreneurial. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the companies receiving jobs alone and, if they are competitive, also creating new ones are concerned, I have already stressed in my last speech here in Parliament that additional labour costs and bureaucratic burdens have to be reduced and that more freedom is needed for the creativity of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sozialminister! The Chamber of Commerce has always demonstrated its willingness to participate in meaningful solutions for the economy and thus for society and to make an active contribution. I just remember that we not only called for the chip card as a health certificate, but we will also pay 300 million schilling for the introduction. A concrete solution has thus become reality. We are ready for joint solutions, ladies and gentlemen, which will also be able to implement the forthcoming reforms in social security law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7323	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. A final word by Mrs Special Rapporteur does not take place. We are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places to that end. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion group VII of the Federal Proposal for 1999. This includes Chapters 15 to 17 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I will therefore first vote on the financial approach affected by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the advisory group VII of the Federal Government proposal for 1999. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an amendment concerning the estimate approach 1/15567 and the resulting changes to the sum amounts. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to stand up for it to do so. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I am therefore immediately voting on this part of the financial legal approach to the federal proposal for the year 1999 in the version of the government proposal. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now vote on the remaining parts of Chapters 15 to 17 of the Federal Proposal in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military matters (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7396	We are now entering the negotiations on the XII Group on Military Affairs. An oral report has been omitted by the Special Rapporteur. We are entering the debate. The first speech is by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7427	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "The military defense is in front of the financial bankruptcy. Despite an increasing number of tasks, the federal army has been given less and less financial resources in recent years. The development is currently at a point where improvisation and commitment by the members of the federal army can no longer be balanced." Federal Minister! One can only agree fully with this. However, these words are not from a liberal speaker, not from a speaker from another opposition party, but from a publication of the officer society, which is probably to be attributed to your area, Minister of State. We are already so far – and this should probably be the beginning of this budget debate – that even your most immediate supporters must criticise even your staff, the members of the civil society, with such harsh words of this budget and thus your defence policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The national defence budget for 1999 with 21.7 billion schilling, a nominal plus of 122 million schilling, does not even cover the inflation rate, Minister of Defence. This is a real minus of 200 million schilling – and that at a time when we have to carry out a whole series of additional tasks in the field of national defence, in which price increases are, above all, much higher in the arms field than the normal rate of inflation. [[Abg. Wabl: Where do the price increases in the equipment area come from? - Because the lubrications are so high!]] Mr. Minister of Defence! They have managed to get under 0.8% of gross domestic product for the first time with this defence budget. You can be truly congratulated – in the negative sense – there has been a lot of success. They have also managed once again to ensure that Austria is an absolute final light in an international comparison – behind Luxembourg in the last place. If you look at the comparisons, it is quite different in other countries, too, at a time when, of course, the armies are being saved at the defence budgets. I am not calling countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Norway – you can always say that you cannot compare – but countries with which we are always compared in terms of security policy, such as Switzerland: 1.3% of defence expenditure on gross domestic product, Ireland: 1.48 per cent of gross domestic product, and Sweden, of you, ladies and gentlemen, above all of the Socialists, always regarded as the example of a neutral state in the defense: 3.76% of defence expenditure on gross domestic product. I do not want to raise the objection, because, ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish have the highest national defence budget in Europe if they look away from the Greeks. Consistency! On the other hand, a state which has to organize its own defence on its own, which has to invest more in its own defence. [[Abg. Wabl: That's not true! A smooth misconception of what you're saying here!]] You, Mr Federal Minister, in your responsibility and also the entire Federal Government are going a different way. You cannot decide how the future security policy situation of Austria continues – membership in an alliance or alliance-free – either you can't get through on the other hand, at last consistently to ensure that the Austrian federal army is provided with the funds necessary to be able to fulfil the mandate that this institution has received through our constitution, Mr. Defence Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are, as you always boast, the longest-serving minister. That's what you're really asking yourself: What have you achieved in these eight years? If we look at the structure of this budget, we must say that it is going in the completely wrong direction, Mr Minister of Defence. With the personnel costs you have a plus of over 400 million schilling, with the actual expenses a minus of 120 million schilling. - Yeah, you're laughing again. This is what is most annoyed by people, especially those who are affected by this catastrophic situation every day. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: The laughter is annoying you?]] You too, Mrs Colleague, should take a look at this in practice. That is an enormous fact that we are still laughing at this situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Smile is healthy!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Every day in this Republic, in this federal army, basic defenses are being trained for a mission that they cannot survive due to the bad infrastructure in serious cases, and you can do nothing but laugh about it! What is your responsibility to our Austrians, to the basic military servants in this Republic? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: (a prospectus to the height) Peace policy is needed!]] Mr. Minister of Defence! They do not take security policy seriously anymore, otherwise you could in the Committee on Budgets ask whether the Federal Government can still fulfil its mission, not only stone and clear a short yes to answer. You, Mr Minister, know very well that there are clear plans in your own place. I quote now a very high officer who said: For the first time in the Second Republic, especially with this new military division, the Austrian Federal Army is no longer in a position in theory to oppose a potential aggressor, because in our environment, there is no one potential opponent who is so weak as to be able to defend the Austrian federal army with the means you are responsible for. It cannot be assumed that you take seriously the task of the federal constitution and also of the military law, namely the military state defense, and you - once again - have not been able to choose to integrate Austria into an alliance. That would be something else, then we would not have to cover the entire military tasks at high cost. But so, at the status quo, the federal army has committed itself to defending the boundaries throughout its length against any potential opponent, Mr. Defence Minister! You can't seriously say that this is possible. Your own experts and your own generals have already gone so far as to indicate to the public that this is no longer possible. A few weeks ago, you presented a new army division, which you now want to do with this budget. We already have the case that you do not take your own reforms seriously, Minister of Defence. Even the new army division in 1992 failed to meet the lack of conditions. A budget of 1 percent of gross domestic product would have been planned, 100 billion schilling procurement packages would have been planned not to talk to the staff at all. You know very well that you have not been able to achieve any of these parameters. That is why, in this Parliament, and in particular your own people, you have put a new focus on military integration, and we are now hearing from internal studies and surveys that a budget of 26 billion schilling per year would be necessary for the practical implementation of this re-integration. 26 billion schilling! What are you setting out here as the first budget for the new army? – 21 billion schilling! We have now heard from the staff that civil service numbers are still exploding. Ten thousand civilians a year are expected. [[Abg. Wabl: We are on the right path!]] That is, you will only have more than 25,000 basic defenses per year. This is also one of the figures you have used for your redeployment. Not to mention the procurement packages, Mr. Defence Minister! So there is another redeployment after another, which will lead to further uncertainty of the force and further weaken our national defence. Take the infrastructure for which you continue to cut the funds year after year. They wanted to set up a mechanized infantry brigade according to your army division. Radpanzers would be needed to do this. Ladies and gentlemen! This Parliament has decided a few months ago on a Mech package, including with the votes of our group. [[Abg. Wabl: No, not Parliament!]] We have believed you when you said that there are now the battle tanks LEOPARD II – beautiful and good, important thing – then there is Radpanzer PANDUR – order for the Austrian economy – then there is the shooter ULAN. [[Abg. Wabl: The Council of State Defense has decided on the Mech package, not Parliament!]] Federal Minister! Where is the implementation of this Mech package? You bought the battle tank, but what about the wheel tanks now? Order for the Austrian economy, important equipment for our soldiers to give them this chance of survival. What about the shooter? - Nothing! There are no contractual negotiations, there is not even a technical description. And if you know that you have given two years for your redeployment – that's what it should be – and you have already said in the Mech package that the inflow will take 10 to 15 years after the conclusion of the contract, then you will know what to think of all these reforms. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Minister of Defence! You still juggle with numbers. It was once said that we would need 500 wheel tanks, and in the Council of State Defense, from 200 to 230 wheel tanks was the talk – the colleagues of the Socialist Group will give me a right – and now suddenly the 68 are included, which we already have, so it is only more than 130. But if you were to take your own reform seriously, you would have to know that 180 wheel tanks would be necessary for such a mechanized infantry brigade alone. [[Abg. Wabl: Today the Fassl evening is taken in the tong from the left and from the right!]] So where is your concept, where are your framework conditions? Or: The JAGUAR shooter has saved the night vision device that would cost 1.5 million schillings per piece. The value of this device is only more than 25 percent. The producer company will cease production, Mr. Federal Minister. That means that this device is only more to be used in daylight and even when the sun is at a right angle. Otherwise, this device is not necessary! But you buy 2 000 steering weapons for this device at a price of up to 530 000 S. It is seen that on the one hand, the wrong side, is saved and the money is thrown out on the other. So it looks like the trucks. You have said that we need 1,000 pieces in the near future. Now it is reduced again and further shortened. There is no answer to the question of the Dragon succession. [[Abg. Wabl: Thank God!]] You know that is absolutely necessary. The pilots will run away from us. We'll soon be out of airspace surveillance. You have said in the Committee that this question will be discussed at the earliest after the completion of the Mech package, i.e. after 10 to 15 years. You broke down the militia, Mr. Federal Minister, because this new army division also reduced by another 20 percent. This too, I believe, is a very disastrous situation, that the military soldiers, who perform an important service in their leisure time for the defence of the state, are again and again signaled: In fact, they are only a statistical size and can be brushed off with a dash in any reform, if you want to take any savings again, and sent home with a statement of appeal, which says what happens if they do not deliver their equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! This is not the way to deal with Austrian citizens who, in a serious case, are putting their lives at risk in order to ensure the security of this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We would have liked you to go at least that far, at least the additional expenditure that this ministry, which this army takes over for other departments – about 550 million schilling for foreign use, 600 million shilling for assistance and the cost to the EU Presidency – would have to pay for your budget. But you were not even able to do that! Unfortunately, Mr Schlögl has been able to organize this very differently. You are the longest-serving Minister of Defense, unfortunately you have done one in these eight years: You have implemented the "Bundesheer light", which Marizzi once asked for many years ago, in your place of business. – A disaster for this army and, ultimately, a disaster for the security of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7631	Mr Murauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7660	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can draw a somewhat more realistic picture of the German army and of the state defence than our colleague Scheibner has done now, and, precisely because Federal Minister Fassleven is a long-standing minister, I can take a very positive view. I want to do so and I can do so in view of the state's situation. Ladies and gentlemen! A total of 21.7 billion Schilling will continue to be spent on the security of Austria in the future, that is, in 1999, although some new threat situations do not want to see. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Federal Government is well aware of the task of helping where others are no longer able, in a more exemplary way. Ways to live and to be fair again and again. I should like to remind you of the protection of disasters, and I should only like to remind you of floods in 1997. Assistance on the Hungarian border, which has been carried out since 1990, costs 400 million Schilling annually, ladies and gentlemen. That's a total of 3.2 billion schillings that make up the Ministry of Defence. This commitment will continue in the coming year with 2 000 men to monitor the soil and airspace and gives Austrians and Austrians the right to give our country the appropriate security at the border. So a yes! We can assure the Austrians with our federal army security, colleague Scheibner. Yes, we can guarantee security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In future, however, the Minister of Finance will not be able to assign the costs to the Ministry of State Defense, but will have to cover them specifically – this is an essential necessity. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then take responsibility?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why don't you agree to our request?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say the following: Although the 1999 defense budget has more available for that of 1998 by 122 million schilling, which means an increase of 0.6 percent, we will continue to be among the countries with the lowest defence budgets in Europe, because we have to save – even if this hurts us there and there. [[Abg. Young: Have you heard of inflation?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Murauer! The lowest!]] Mr Fassl evening, however, is due to the fact that this budget still manages to guarantee security for Austria. Yes, one can guarantee security with the Austrian federal army and meet the requirements and make the most of the existing resources. Our Federal Minister and our military succeed, despite the savings budget. One reason for this is that the savings have not been made in the military force of the force, but in the administrative sector. [[Abg. Wabl: Where?]] The Federal Government, under Minister Fassleven, also demonstrates in the international field that it is able to carry out the tasks he has set up in an optimal manner. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's huge!]] I would like to refer to the United Nations, the OSCE – Mr colleague, if you know that – the participation in the Partnership for Peace, where Austrian units receive international recognition on a regular basis. In the "PfP" alone we took part in eleven exercises and also put our man in the disaster in Poland. These are successes that can be attributed to the Austrian federal army, but also to those responsible, especially the Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A major focus is on training, both officer and sub-official training, which is based on the latest knowledge. The military academy has, as you know, received the status of a technical college. The Heeres sub-offering school was upgraded to HUAK. Increased attention in the field of education has a concrete impact in the organization and in the motivation of the ministers and cadres. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's huge!]] The Austrian People's Party takes note of the internationally comparatively narrow budget as another savings budget. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You haven't been in a barracks for a long time!]] However, the spirit of lack of safety is not taken into account, which is naturally to be found in the Greens but also in parts of Social Democracy. So today opinions have been expressed, for example, that one should halve the army again, or it is rich in this halved army for a national defense or a new classical state defense. – Ladies and gentlemen, who are of such opinion – not with the Austrian People’s Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I note that the solution is not the destruction of our national defence and of our federal army, but the need for permanent adjustment and better financial resources in the future. There will always be military divisions which need to be re-adapted, including military divisions, which include "New New" or perhaps a third "New", Mr. Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Every two years, my colleague.]] For what would you say if the military division did not take place and everything stagnated? [[Abg. Scheibner: Then put one into practice!]] Then you would call for a change and demand to adapt for new circumstances and new security policy findings! That's why there are the new army division and adaptations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on the option report: It is not a question of the federal army being equipped with a minimum budget on the one hand and the neutrality being presented as sufficient. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Other countries have much better budgets. On the other hand, the possibility of membership of the WEU or NATO not even as an option by name is really worrying! The Austrian People's Party cannot share a mental attitude that puts the security of Austria at risk for ideological reservations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then see that you are coming into the government!]] [[Abg. Wabl: That was a coalition break now!]] We have to guarantee our country the optimum safety. On the Mech package and on the issue of procurement, I should like to remind the House that the focus of the procurement is on telecommunications and radar equipment, diverting weapons, combat simulators, thermal imagers and similar improvements for the team. At the ULAN, the procurement is in the final phase, the PANDUR still needs to be optimised after conducting tests – you know that, Mr Scheibner – and LEOPARD and JAGUAR are in progress. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] I am very pleased, as an Upper Austrian Member from Steyr, that the Austrian Federal Government is making this procurement at Steyr to secure jobs, but also to give our weapons-producing companies the opportunity to offer an international reference. This also succeeds in an exemplary way! [[Abg. Wabl: Jobs through weapons, the new slogan of the Christian Democrats!]] Own arms production in Austria should also be supported for security reasons. [[Abg. Wabl: Did you agree with the khol?]] We have different opinions, Mr Wabl, unfortunately I have no time to answer you accordingly. But we can certainly still discuss the value it has for the national defence, for the security of Austria, to produce weapons in the country – even if you are not for that. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out that it is thanks to Minister Fassleven and his military that, according to the limited resources, the best possible implementation of these funds for the security of Austria is to be done.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7921	Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e7950	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I should like to ask the President to stop speaking time limit for 10 minutes. [[President Dr. Brauneder: But please!]] Mr Murauer is really a good man. Servant of his Lord, when he praises this pult from this budget and draws a positive picture of the national defense. [[Abg. Murauer: Not only, but also!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Who is his Lord?]] Mr Murauer, I think you did not mean your contribution to the debate, because the State of military defence in Austria is anything but positive. This budget cannot at all be referred to as successful or at all as a budget with which the German army is able to carry out its mission, Mr Murauer. Ladies and gentlemen! The defence budget has a smaller share of gross domestic product this year, there are fewer personnel within the army – and you say that the budget is positive. But as a reason for the fact that security is guaranteed, because the German army is in principle advocating assistance at the border, the hair is drawn! For security at the border is a security police measure, a security guard, and the state of the state of defence to measure the ability to complete a guard, is probably cockbled and does not stand an international comparison. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is, as the government parties have repeatedly stated, cast policy. If we look at the figures, we note that the Austrian People's Party's Party's policy in the field of defence, i.e. the policy of Federal Minister Fassleven, has in principle failed. Minister Fassleven was also unable within the Federal Government to exercise and enforce the interests of national defence. I'm just comparing your budget with that of the interior. As in 1997 and 1998, a much higher share of the total budget is made available for the Ministry of the Interior in the 1999 budget than for the area of national defence. If one considers that the executive bodies in the area of the interior sector are in principle very intensive, but essentially with slight arms, then the question arises of how, on these financial conditions, the army is to finance a heavy-weapon army equipment, through which it is only able to carry out the task according to international standards. Ladies and gentlemen! This fact clearly and clearly expresses the failure of defence policy and the failure to implement the interests of the army within the Federal Government. I bring another example: They were also unable to achieve a burden-balance between the various departments and within the Federal Government in carrying out the security tasks. I am very sorry that the cost of assistance is borne by the Ministry of Defence alone. They are about half a billion shillings per anno. There has been assistance for eight years, and if you sum up everything, then in these eight years there have been about 4 billion schillings, which are not available to the army for necessary investments and the necessary modernisation. The foreign operations also burdened the defence budget with half a billion schillings, and I see far and wide no approach by the Minister of Defence to obtain additional financial resources for this. However, I also see far and wide no approach by the Federal Government to finance these operations by means of a special budget according to international custom. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget will also make it impossible to finance the necessary reforms of the army, which have now been decided. I can remind you of the statement of the General Force Inspector, who said: So much money – so many lords. – This money will not allow the federal army, which is now to be re-structured and reformed, to be equipped according to modern directives, principles and requirements. I can, as an example, bring the implementation of the Mech package. Although we bought the JAGUAR very cheaply, for financial reasons we are no longer able to secure its willingness to work, so that there is a corresponding ability to fight day and night. We have decided on the establishment of a Mech infantry brigade and the modernisation of the armored brigades. But the necessary financial conditions for the procurement of the equipment are not provided. Mr Federal Minister, you have to understand the real needs. It is not a matter of saying, for example, on the one hand – Mr Scheibner has already done this – that we buy 200 PANDUR, on the other hand, but then debate whether the 68 tanks for the UN are already included in this number or not. [[Abg. Scheibner: ridiculous! 200!]] When we look at the requirements of the Mech infantry brigade, we see that they are around 200 pieces. In your answer to a question also in writing, please explain how much is needed for this Mech infantry brigade, that at a first stage only it is intended to equip a mech infantry battalion. – Mr Federal Minister, if you just want to equip a Mech infantry battalion, you only need 60 PANDUR – or maybe 65 or 70 PANDUR! But why do you claim in the National Defence Council that you need 200 pieces and that your funding is guaranteed? They even submitted a financing plan. [[Abg. Wabl: To wrap the socio! The water in the mouth has run together because of the jobs!]] There is a planning chaos on this issue, and I have the impression that you are not in a position to implement the decided military reform. [[Abg. Wabl: Fassleven is a smart tacticer! But that was a shot in the coalition knee, you saw that at the Murauer!]] Another example is the decision on an air-moving infantry brigade. – Minister! Where are the financial conditions for financing air transport? Where are the planning documents or basics to obtain the necessary helicopters? I would like to point out briefly how the state of our air forces is essentially. The Bell 204 was introduced in 1965 and is now eliminated. The Bell 206 was introduced in 1969 and thus introduced 30 years in the Federal Army, the Alouette III, in 1967, is also in the Federal Army for over 30 years. The OH-58 Kiowa, introduced in 1976, is over 20 years in the army, or, to name the transport aircraft, the Skyvan, introduced 1969, is over 30 years in the federal army, outdated and at the end of the lifetime. However, there are neither the necessary plans on the table nor the financial conditions for such urgent follow-up to be made. But at the same time a structure is decided which one knows that we are not able to implement it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was still much to be said about the budget. I would just like to deal with one point that Mr Murauer has also raised in his speech, namely the question of the option report. Mr Murauer! It is very doubly to complain from this pult that there was no option report. For the Austrian People's Party has contributed to the absence of an option report and that there has been no broad political consensus on the future prospects for security policy. Your party and your clubman refuse to discuss the security options in this House. We cannot even carry out the corresponding discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! This is double-poverty in the political debate, that is dishonesty in the political argumentation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is typical!]] Finally, I would like to mention the German government reform. This federal reform is a tragedy, and I am sorry that the majority in this House have decided on such a reform. There are no very basics and conditions for this reform, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, you bear the political responsibility for the critical development which the German army will face in the future. This military reform has been decided without the principle of security policy on how Austria's involvement in the European security architecture is or will be foreseen. Because it is a difference whether we remain neutral or whether we are integrated into a military alliance, whether WEU or NATO. It requires a different military, as there are different needs. There is now no financing plan, and this is also reflected in the current budgets, whether this is the 1999 budget or the following budgets. We don't have a financing plan. They could not even say in the National Defence Council how much funding is actually needed and on what basis – 1 percent or 0.8 percent of the gross domestic product – the plans are being made. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also no holistic approach to reform. In this reform of the army, the main areas of the army as a whole have not been taken into account and, therefore, resources will continue to be misused in the area of army administration, structures and the school organisation. Mr Murauer said that reforms are always necessary. - That's right! But a military reform with a planning horizon of two years is not usual internationally and also wrong! A time horizon of two years is possible for the internal planning processes at the middle management level. At the level of the army, it will be possible to plan in the long term, because only then will it be possible to define the necessary requirements and to get from this definition a sensible financing of a military reform. [[Abg. Young: There is no perspective with us!]] You have not done all of this in this reform. I would just like to point out that this reform does not continue to take place in the area of military administration. The military system has been smashed. The structures in the middle management level of the militia are completely dissolved and are no longer planned for organisational purposes. The mechanized troops have also been smashed. There has been no necessary equivalent in the preparation of international operations. But in that, I believe, the prospects of the Austrian federal army must and must lie! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget shows that the defence or military policy of the Austrian People's Party has failed under Minister Fassleven. This budget shows once again that one cannot achieve the objectives, the objectives that one has set itself. That is why we cannot give our support to such a policy and to such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8125	Mr Gaál is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will give our assent to the National Defence Budget chapter, because there are first steps towards important structural changes arising from the new operational tasks of the Federal Government and also taking into account the increasing importance of participation in peacekeeping and humanitarian operations in the international field. Mr Murauer – he is not here now; [[Abg. Leikam: It's already there!]] [[Further call-ins]] Sorry, I don't have the glasses on – has spoken again today about the halving of the federal army. That is why I would like to say once again, Mr Murauer, to give the truth the honor: No one in this House – including us Social Democrats – has ever spoken the word for a halve of the German army. This is a conscious misunderstanding that I now want to get out of the world. We have had a reduction in the mobilising strength – we have achieved this together with the Federal Minister – in order to reduce the mobilising strength to 92 000 soldiers plus 20 percent staff reserves and also a reduction in active staff. [[Call to the Freeman: You have reached that too!]] In the discussion, a few thousand soldiers were different between our considerations and those of the Federal Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Murauer: But that looked different first!]] We met in the middle, but never – never! – has been spoken of as halving the federal army. In any case, competent and competent security politicians have never mentioned this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] What we were concerned with is the maintenance of the general military service and the military system. Mr Scheibner, we are not going to let this happen, we will continue to hold on to it, and the Minister of State never intended to destroy the military system. [[Abg. Scheibner: 20 percent will be scraped again!]] What we were concerned with is achieving the employment goal agreed for 1998 and 1999 and the desired savings potential. Federal Minister! I have repeatedly said this and today I should like to point out that, in the case of all the necessary reductions that we have jointly carried and defined, the social component must not forget that there must not be any negative impact on the staff of the cadre. I would like to give an example here: The Artilleriegegiment III in Wiener Neustadt – a most modernly equipped and personalised association – has highly motivated, best-qualified cadre staff, and this association is now to be dissolved. The staff are sent to Baden to pack up the personal weak artillery school and also the very weak tank artillery battalion IX. Federal Minister! Wouldn't it be more reasonable to disband the battalion in Baden and to strengthen the artillery school with the rest of the staff? – With this solution, the staff would only have to go over the barracks yard to another building. I would ask you to include this proposal in your decision. But back to the budget. There is no doubt that 1999 is a very tense situation. The resources for arms expenditure have continued to fall due to the additional burdens – they have already been addressed today – resulting from the Mech package, but also from the increased foreign operations and the use of assistance at the border. It is not expected that the defence budget will be substantially increased over the next few years at the expense of other areas. I therefore believe that the only way to get funds for the necessary investments is to save, rationalise and create slim structures in my own area. A non-essential financial potential lies also in the sale of barracks and properties. Federal Minister! In this context too, we must take account of what has not always been the case in the past. I should like to mention an example – you just mentioned – of a non-constant barracks closure, namely, a barracks closure in Upper Austria, in Steyr. But before, a word to Enns' army sub-official school. Federal Minister! You know, as I do, that the capacity in Endens is not sufficient for all courses to be carried out. Every year only 9 million schillings are spent on outsourcing of training and courses as well as on additional necessary accommodation outside the Academy. Therefore, it makes no sense for us to close the Kaserne in Steyr, just 20 kilometres from Enns, but at the same time to further expand the Heeres sub-officiiersakademie in Enns. I had expected that Mr Murauer – this is your constituency, dear friend – to speak here for Steyr. Mr Murauer, you speak different from here in the National Council! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Is x-fold to read, my colleague, that I have always stood up for the Steyr barracks with vehemence!]] I have today expected a clear word from the ÖVP and, in particular, from you as the competent constituency. [[Abg. Murauer: I am pleased for your consent!]] Federal Minister! I'm sure we'll find ourselves on this question. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: It has long been decided: Steyr is closed!]] It would be reasonable to maintain the location of Steyr and to use it for continuing and continuing training courses of the Federal Army, while Enns continues to pursue the previous sub-official training. This would ensure, on the one hand, existing jobs, and on the other, no additional costs. This solution would fit shinyly into the school town of Steyr. That is why we should go this way. Federal Minister! Another important issue is Air Forces. There are also a few comments on this. I, too, believe that the structural reform that has been introduced, which we agree with, must be continued. We want to continue them together. However, the question arises whether the infrastructure of the Austrian air forces really meets the criteria of operational efficiency and economic efficiency. A streamlining of the management structure and a reduction of infrastructure will also be necessary for air forces. I therefore believe that it is high time to present a cost-benefit analysis of the tactical and operational importance of military airfields to their operations. The financial resources that can be saved in operating and personnel expenditure could help to make the necessary new acquisitions in the area of helicopter fleet for safety reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Federal Minister! We know that Augusta Bell 204 reached Hörsching almost at the end of their flight hours, i.e. technically they flew out. However, I do not believe that we can, in the run-up to this aircraft, in rescue and assistance operations, but also in the context of disaster aid. Federal Minister! I hope that we can reach a common solution in this area too. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 budget is a budget of reason, a budget which is also very likely to go into the future in the area of national defence, a budget which ensures that the necessary modernisation measures and the improvement of equipment are properly prioritized. [[Abg. Wabl: "Budget of reason"...!]] We are committed to an efficient, efficient national defence, with the priority for us always being the protection and security of the soldiers. We are willing, together with you, Mr Federal Minister, to stand up for a credible federal army and thereby take responsibility for it. But co-responsible also means the possibility of co-constitution and co-decision, because only in a meaningful co-operation can we go this path successfully. I am trying to get us together on a successful path – in the interests of the security of Austria and its people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8309	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8330	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I guess and think a lot about the following question: How can an interlocutor, a defense spokesman – whether he is now Maitz, Gaál or more recently Murauer, or also Scheibner – at this time, in 1998, in the given kind of threats so vehemently in a weapon, turn into a arms potential that has long since contributed to security? [[Abg. Gaál: Preventive!]] – I know that with the word “preventive” you have always justified the millions and billions. This makes all the rulers, all the governments of this world, they must always "guarante". I would like social democrats to be so careful in other political areas as well. [[Abg. Leikam: Are we?]] Take a look at the 1998 and 1999 budgets in the social field: 7 billion schilling less! That's what you call "precaution"? In relation to the military, you are at least in favour of paying off the inflation rate. And because you don't want to frustrate Fassl evening and the military completely, you have carefully left a back door open to them – carefully, you take care! – that there is still money for the tanks, and that is why they are given the money from the sale of the barracks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, there is no such thing in the whole Republic: If buildings owned by the Republic are sold, the money from the sale will of course be sent to the Minister of Finance. But no, the military are taking care of and trying to use this money for tank purchases. Mr Maitz. Mr Scheibner and all those you have considered to be a cause of security here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I don't know how your perception is, but I don't read of any wild, rabite dictators in our neighborhood who want to wage war. I'm not reading from any crazy person... [[Abg. Scheibner: The problem is that you do not know before!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Scheibner! But do you know what I've been reading about every day lately? – From a threat image that you have very probably listed: from the ecological threat; I read about it. I read that we have a bomb in front of the door, called Mochovce, and you're thinking about the question: [[Abg. Scheibner: Why does one exclude the other?]] How many tanks can we buy at the existing budget? And here else explain the "bankrott" of the federal army. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: ABC troops!]] The security policy that Austria now has to take and make would be quite different. We are now spending 11 billion schilling for the Mech package tank! 11 billion schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to think in your military logic now. [[Abg. Murauer: No, you can't do that!]] [[Abg. Young: It's enough if you think logically!]] Think about the following: The NATO Army, which you love so much and in which you would most like to join immediately, has reached a certain level of armament – I think the NATO Army is one of the most highly equipped, probably the most powerful and strongest army in the world; and now I ask you in your military logic – and what would our 11 billion-billion-shipping tank package provide additional security in this powerful device of NATO? [[Abg. Scheibner: There we would save ourselves money...!]] If the Social Democrats were to be so sloppy and so soft in the coalition that they would surrender to you, we would join NATO tomorrow, and you would join with pride and the Austrian flag in front of the NATO army, which is the most powerful army in the world. Now, with your military logic, Mr Gaál, I ask you: What can these 11-billion schilling tanks contribute to the safety of Austria? – Please tell me, but misuse the word “reason”, this beautiful, pure word, not in connection with the fact that you lay down 11 billion schilling so that we can take over old scrap tanks from NATO, so that we do this one favor, tanks that have cut them out, and then we equip them with hot and others. Mr Scheibner! And here you tell the Austrian population: It'll be safer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm asking for a reasonable argument. We have the most equipped army in the world ahead of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] He wants to join, Mr Scheibner, he wants to include the army with the beautiful soldiers and generals in NATO, and you want to explain to the Austrian population that these 100 or 200 or 300 tanks – I do not know how many will eventually be negotiated – contribute to security! Explain You ask – I don't know who! [[Abg. Scheibner: Everyone has to make his contribution!]] The word'reason' is not appropriate in this context, 'ratio' has something to do with logic, and I cannot imagine that the NATO army is getting stronger by this 11 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You know, if the Austrians were to build these tanks in their spare time, if that were their hobby, I'd say: [[Abg. May. Posch: When she takes tanks away, it's rational for NATO! From the perspective of NATO!]] You chose a very bad hobby!, but the people invest their labor, their intelligence, their taxpayers in it – and in the social field you cut by 7 billion schilling! – And that is the Social Democracy in 1998, Mr. Gaál! That's the reality! This is your "prevention", "precaution"! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: That's totally reasonable – for NATO!]] [[Abg. Gaál: But only with the white linen cloth you would not have achieved anything in Yugoslavia!]] Mr Gaál! I really try to understand you, and I often think about it. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the liberals.]] My father was also with the military, he was an officer, and I often talked to him about it. I want to understand, but I can't. [[Abg. Murauer: This is too often the case that the Wabl does not understand something!]] The NATO army, armed to the teeth, is now strengthened by Mr Moser with his tanks and the catchers of Mr Fassl evening. - That doesn't want in my head! But perhaps the other Austrians understand this better, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Murauer: The majority of the house!]] I can't understand that, at the best of will! [[Abg. Murauer: This is understood by the majority of the house!]] Mr. Gaál, I always think that my brain is the same as yours – I think. The few percent that 0,3 percent... [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: "Similar"!]] [[Further calls.]] I know that of Scheibner has recently been a little disastered by the many thorns. [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Gaál, make a correction!]] . I think Mr Maitz must also somehow be accessible to the logic, the world of thought that has been cultivated on this earth for very, very long time. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, where this develops. It is only necessary to look at the discussion by Mr Hans Rauscher in connection with the NATO debate he has held with Mr Bundeskanzler Klima. Mr Klima explained his attitude to NATO as follows: He has nothing against NATO – also for economic reasons – but he is looking for an independent European security structure. Mr Klima has also stated that Europe must not make itself technologically dependent on the Americans. A good part of modern electronics and telecommunications comes from the arms industry, and we have to develop something ourselves. There are also jobs inside. Ladies and gentlemen! I have thought, since Kreisky, since Vrannitzky, since Sinowatz, the Social Democracy has agreed on the incredibly unmistakable dogma that safe jobs can be created through the arms industry. Mr Gaál! This applies to the nerve of social democracy! That the Christian Democrats believe that it is new labour market policy when tanks are produced is another story, but the inconsistency of social democracy was not as blatant as that of the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Posch: Sure, economically meaningful!]] [[Abg. Gaál: But in the sense of peace...!]] Mr. Gaál! Listen Please, stop it! You know exactly what is needed now: the development of the infrastructure of our neighbours in the ecological field. Now Mochovce is burning, Mr. Gaál, that's our problem! [[Abg. Gaál: Both!]] And Mr Klima no longer knows what to do. Mr. Klima writes Depeschen, sends faxes. Mr. Schüssel walks around, goes to his friend Santer and asks: Please, what can we do? – 11 billion schilling! You just think about what you could do with this money in connection with exit aid, how many projects of alternative production could be done! Mr Gaál! For decades, you have pursued a very specific security policy here in Austria – now Mr Fassleven has the tactical command in the field of defence policy, but earlier at least the Social Democrats knew the following: You should not wake up sleeping dogs in this area! And you have systematically reduced the federal army to a measure that is compatible. But now do not make the historical mistake to go into this case of NATO approach! I'll hear the next step: NATO Association Treaty – why not? We are at the "Partnership for Peace", the "Petersberger Declaration" we signed, so why not? That's so beautiful! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Now Wabl will also be reasonable!]] Mr Maitz loves to go to NATO headquarters! [[Abg. Murauer: So what about NATO, Mr. Wabl?- Oh, my God!]] In June – or is it later? – Mr. Fassleven will be happy if he is allowed to sit with Solana and the others and at this NATO workshop in Vienna he finally has the great global policy in mind – the big thing! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: In Vienna!]] I do not appeal here to the ÖVP, but to the Christian Democrats, Mr Murauer, I do not appeal here to the SPÖ, but to the Social Democrats among you who have a different tradition, and I appeal to the liberals if there is still a liberal tradition there! – Mr Moser, you have to decide at some point whether blue, light blue or shark blue! [[Abg. Murauer: That is identical in this case!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8767	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8789	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! During today's debate, a number of questions have been raised about the Austrian federal army itself, but also about security policy as a more or less global framework for the defence of the state. So I would like to start where the last speaker stopped: Yes, it is about the security of our country! You have rightly referred to the fact that we are currently in a debate on safety, such as the nuclear safety of our country. However, it must be said that there is not only a civil component, but not only the possibility that a nuclear power plant, which has not even been opened, may at some point also cause problems, but that we are also confronted with the fact that several tens of thousands of nuclear warheads are stored on European soil and that there is a single organization that can have control of it from the outside – and that is certainly NATO. It was also this organization that ended the war in Bosnia in the conventional field, and it is now seeking to act preventively, and it is working towards the fact that there is no new conflict in Kosovo. Is it really just the question of military power, or is it also the security attitude? Is Europe not able to pay tickets from Belgrade to Priština and to Tirana? Why does it have to be an American doing this? - Yes, it's one! And at least he has made it happen that the Serbian Prime Minister Miloševi and the Prime Minister of Kosovo, Rugova, have today sat at a table! An American from NATO, from the area of the North Atlantic Alliance, has managed to work there preventively! Perhaps that should be borne in mind when there or there scepticism always appears to be whether we need the Americans for Europe's security policy. Yes, we need them in order to prevent the outbreak of crises at all. And we should also be grateful to them accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The same applies also to the sub-conventional area, a danger area which is likely to become more evident in the next few years. I therefore – as well as almost all European experts – have repeatedly taken a stand for Austria to make a clear decision in terms of security policy. I'm being asked again and again: Why do you insist on such a decision? – I would now like to answer with a question: Is it really a push when, nine years after the end of the Cold War, a decision is being made that the Federal Government has already decided two years ago that it wants to issue an option report, is that really a push? Is it urgent to call for at least ten years after the end of the Cold War a country to be able to clearly define its future political, security policy orientation? - I don't think so! I mean, we should take time, we should consider all the advantages and disadvantages, but then make such a decision all the more clear – and everyone is invited to do so! Everyone has to take part because it should be a simple decision all over Austria as far as possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question of the budget and on the statements and statements made here: The fact is that the budget for national defence has increased by exactly one quarter since the year before I took office, by exactly 25 percent: from 17.2 billion to 21.5 billion schilling now. [[Abg. Scheibner: But real this is a decent minus!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: More money is not yet a better policy, Minister!]] The fact is that in the international context it is still a very modest framework for the task of external security. The fact is that we have not only to finance and challenge enormously important security benefits for Austria, but also to make it necessary to modernise our national defence. The fact is that gratefully, the people of our house have succeeded in providing not only a high level of security for our country, but also in carrying out high-quality operations, one by one. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] I would therefore like to thank the officers and the officers, the officers, all the soldiers – including the basic military servants – for their attitude, for their idealism, for their willingness and for their high performance. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do something for these people at last! Work for these people!]] I would also like to thank all those who have not been afraid to give support to national defence in these years and in this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some things could be achieved: When I took up this post, we had a few dozen anti-terrorist weapons. Since then there are not only BILL, but also Mistral, Sidewinder and now Hot 2 and Hot 3. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We have built up a powerful artillery at this time, we have at least the first wheel tanks and now also new battle tanks, and we have also purchased new rocket tanks. Of course, it is also tried again and again – I know it – to make things worse. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are the people who work with this weapon every day! They don't know anything? Only you know everything?- Oh, my God!]] . I would like to say to you, Mr Scheibner: Just a few months ago, exactly in this configuration, the device you have previously criticized was still in use in Europe's strongest NATO state, namely in the German Bundeswehr: to the full satisfaction of the soldiers and generals there. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And it can't suddenly become bad and useless from one day to the next, and it can only be a beautiful weather weapon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it has served to be a correspondingly powerful weapon in the Cold War, then it is not suddenly a completely useless device after the end of the Cold War. You should take this into account in your comments. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who knows more: your commander or you?]] It has also been said a lot about the Heeresorganisation-New. I would like to point out once again that we are concerned not only with a streamlining of the command area, but also with strengthening the leadership's performance, where we need to be used abroad, based on the constant use of several battalions abroad: Cyprus, Golan, Bosnia, Kuwait and various other countries. We will probably also be particularly dependent on this leadership in the future. Of course, it is also a matter of strengthening the presence of our federal army, and it is in particular a question of specializing in this army's even higher capacity in international comparison not only, but in fact, producing. We will succeed, just as we have already made it visible in the field of training. Of course, there are also a number of measures that are not so easy to implement. Mr Gaál referred to one of these today by pointing out to Mr Murauer that he should have been working to ensure that Steyr is not closed. Mr Gaál! If Mr Murauer had not been able to do so already months ago, if he had not had any effect on the fact that there was no closure, and had also achieved success, in the form that not only the site of Kirchdorf was preserved, which was even expanded, but that Steyr was not yet closed, then that would certainly be a real criticism. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why does your coalition partner not know? Why does that not know your own coalition partner?]] This is not the case, however, because he has been working in time for it and has thus also been able to achieve corresponding successes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to talk briefly about the operations in which the Austrian Federal Army is located. Ongoing are 2 000 men on the border line on the Burgenland border; 2 000 men who not only provide for the safety of the population but also allow the Austrian state year after year savings of well over 1 billion schilling. I believe that this is an achievement that you not only respect, but that you should also recognise accordingly, because it also allows you to finance important services in other areas so that the state can finance them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You should do something for the soldiers, not just write beautiful speeches!]] It is no coincidence that Austria is one of the most economically powerful forces today. It is no coincidence that we are one of the social states worldwide today. Yes, we are in favour, and we are also committed to helping all to achieve such a state not only but also to securing it. What matters to us is that security and defence are not too short. Without a doubt, it will be necessary in the future to finance and then carry out important investments in the appropriate size. There is no doubt that there will still be some need for recovery in some sectors. In this sense, I thank you for your support and wish you not only much success, but also that you take the appropriate decisions in good time – so that the planners in our ministry can not only set up themselves accordingly, but that they can guarantee the security of our country in the future as well – even better – than they have already done in the past.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e8982	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Dr. Maitz has been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the time-consistency, I have taken three points to which I would like to comment: firstly, the comprehensive security concept, second, the structural adjustment of the new army and thirdly, a new information from NATO's headquarters, and a supplement to the neutrality debate for Mr Wabl. The People's Party has always stood for the comprehensive concept of security. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where the Minister laughs!]] I have great respect for the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister, Mr Maitz, even laughs!]] I also understand the healthy "Wiener Schmäh". However, I would like to quote a sentence from Mr Finanzminister's budget speech: "Austria is a safe country and should remain safe in the future – surely... even if it concerns the personal and physical safety of the individual or" – it comes now! – "the external security of the country goes." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I quote: "To a total of 1 billion schillings", the so-called security billions, "are therefore budgeted higher in 1999 for the Ministry of Justice, Justice and Defence." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! To clarify: I do not want this comprehensive security concept in this form, because of 1 billion schilling, the so-called security billions, which the Minister of Finance has called, over 900 million schillings are intended for the interior and for the judicial resort. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Leikam.]] That is quite right and cheap, but if only 122 million shillings are available for external security by a "security billion", that is at least a distortion of this comprehensive security concept. We want external security to keep pace with internal security. [[Congratulations to Members Murauer and Schwarzenberger.]] To adapt the military division-New a few sentences: Mr. Federal Minister Fassleven takes personal responsibility for our cadre staff very seriously. He was therefore personally on the ground in all those areas in which it is a question of decommissioning or a major reorganisation in the context of this structural adjustment, and was there a speech and an answer. Yesterday I had contact with the corps commander of the Corps 1, Plienegger, as well as with the corps commander of the Corps 2, Lagler, telephonic contact. The succus from the discussions concerning the two areas in which gradual implementation will take place was that the Federal Ministry's decree is there and the implementation will take place together with the commanders and staff representatives. The succus from both areas, corps 1 and corps 2 is as follows: With the units affected by the reorganisation, joy is limited – of course! – but the insight of necessity is made. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl]] We shall implement in a scheduled manner – in agreement with the commanders and in agreement with the staff representatives. Mr Scheibner has tried to profile himself here today as a truly apocalyptic rider and has questioned everything. – But it’s not like you say that! [[Abg. Scheibner: You only read your press release!]] Mr Moser has proved himself to be a quick speaker, but not an alternative. Mr Wabl has tried to play essentials against each other. But this is not our understanding of politics. Ladies and gentlemen! Last Saturday at the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO and PfP countries, the Secretary-General of NATO, Javier Solana, announced a new initiative. It has announced the establishment of a Euroatlantic disaster control centre as a decision of NATO to help in the future, faster and more efficient, in the event of natural disasters and other disasters. This NATO disaster control centre is a fresh proof of the political responsibility it carries for Europe and beyond. In the debate on neutrality, not too long ago, was a very remarkable speaker, namely Andrej Fedorov xxxkl. Pau, political director of the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, is a guest in Graz. All those who still regard neutrality as the essential instrument, I would like to recall the statements made by this Russian specialist in security policy: On the question of the neutrality of Austria, this Russian security expert said: Neutrality is old-fashioned. A united Europe and neutrality – this simply does not fit together. I ask you: When will the skeptics of NATO accession and the neutrality-seifers finally follow this realization in Austria? That's what I'm giving you to think about.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9102	Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9123	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fassleven, Federal Minister, made a glorious statement about the success of his term of office as far as the budget is concerned. I have documents from his own ministry on the development of the budget. [[The speaker holds a sheet of paper, on which a bar chart can be seen, in height.]] Since he became a minister, the share of investment has gone down. There must be quite a number of views there, Minister of State. These are the records of your ministry! You can see: The curve goes down. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The second apocalypse. Apocalypse now!]] Mr Maitz, you have just spoken, and it was sometimes painful enough to listen to you. In his remarks, the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany has made it embarrassing to go to the actual budget – and he knows why. He said good words about security policy. He can do that quite well, I admit. But without data, facts and money, all this is just hot air. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! With his previous appearance, Mr Wabl reminded me that the fairy tale olympia is currently running in Graz. He could also have occurred there as far as his appearance is concerned. As far as your content, Mr Minister, is concerned, you would have had room there too. I will prove this to you on the basis of comparisons to your previous budget speech. Mr. Minister, last year you said: With these increases – this year we were once again at the increases – we can essentially keep the level – as you keep the level with increases is interesting anyway – and have the prerequisite to continue the course towards upward in small steps. If you look at the 1999 budget, you can say: Continue, not in small steps, even in large, Mr Minister, but downwards, not upwards, as you can see from these statistics. In practice, you have always "forget" to point out the inflation rate, which is very high for acquisitions in the arms field. You know that very well, of course, but you don't say it. You also know very well that General Naumannxxxc. Pau, the highest and most experienced military in the West, the NATO, which you spoke of so praised earlier, said that a military without an investment share of 30 percent had no future. – This was said by General Naumann in Austria, in Gaming, a few days ago, Mr. Minister. But you don't want to hear that at this point. You "forget" that, quite consciously. A army with a lower share of investment has no future, and the German army has no future with you, Mr Minister, even if you continue to do so! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Not with you either! Not with such generals either!]] You, Mr Minister, have spoken about the implementation of the Mech package, which is a major step forward in the fight. Yes, what about the strengthening of the military force? – On three occasions, Minister, you have to admit that the ammunition for the tanks is missing. They themselves have admitted in the answer to the question that the tanks, the battaliones with the new device, will be ready for use at the earliest in 2001. These new tanks will be 20 years old, Minister! This is what your new set-up of the tank associations in Austria looks like! That's hard-wearing what you're saying here! And you think we forget all of this. You just need to look at what you said last year – I quote –: "Of course, the budget has also provided for the procurement of the ULAN." – Yes, where has the ULAN been provided, where is the procurement of the ULAN?- Oh, my God! – There is not even a precise definition of the requirements regarding this device. Is this your kind of care, Mr Minister, which you promised in the budget? An even more difficult problem with regard to the force is the question of trucks. We liberals will address it again today. Today, the Austrian federal army is driving to shoots with rented buses, because no vehicles are available to a sufficient extent. Recently, just 1 of 74 trucks from the hunter regiment were 12 trucks – in words: 12! – applicable, Minister! So far you have brought the Federal Army to the dog in the truest sense of the word that you can't even drive out of your own vehicles because they're no longer ready for use. [[Abg. Steibl: Nice to speak, colleague.]] In 1986 there was a state report on the German army, which came from your ministry, calling for the urgent acquisition of 1,000 trucks. Where are these trucks, Mr. Federal Minister? – Either your professionals have said that is urgently necessary, then you also have to do something – or they are the wrong professionals. Then I'd have But they must have consequences. That's how you stay a minister of announcement! Always and everywhere beautiful words, but nothing behind them, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Poor applause!]] Another point: the year 1998, the year of innovation in the field of military service for women. That was like the story with the "ten little negroes", Mr. Federal Minister. I think at the moment we arrived at six or seven "nobles" and... [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: Don't make fun of the women!]] I am not making fun of the women, but I am very sure of the announcement policy of this Minister of State, who is here... – Mrs Krammer, you are quite loud and very quick in speaking, but that is why you are not right. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: These aren't "ten niggers"! Remember that!]] The Federal Minister has announced something that has not occurred. He's been talking about hundreds of interested women. And what's left? –Now there may be four or five more women who are going to step in in in the near future. The Federal Minister has commissioned a study of 6 million schilling; for each woman, as it were, 1 million schilling, what this study is about to do. That's all he's brought together so far. [[Abg. Dr. Krammer: That's still a lot too little!]] He has organized fashion shows at the Federal Heer Heer. [[Abg. Steibl: This is discrimination against women to say "modeshow"!]] What's left? – A weak hunting group, Minister! These are announcements from you – and nothing else! They said that the army sub-official school had been upgraded to the Academy and greatly improved from the overall quality. – Apart from that, Minister, that I see a fundamental mistake alone in the name of "Academy", those men who make up an essential part of our federal army, namely, the suboffensives, are being given a false impression from the outset, namely that the briefcase is used in the hand for training in the military service. That's wrong. [[Abg. May. Posch: (in the direction of President Dr. Brauneder) Will you give an order for this racist statement?]] If someone needed a call for orders, you, Mr Posch, but you, as the outside of the left, naturally stirs up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Read what racism means, colleague Posch, before you say something like that! As far as the quality is concerned, Mr. Minister, you have appointed someone to command this army sub-official school, who has proved his "quality" recently, in spite of better knowledge and reminders in your ministry. And that was not the first such incident. You were warned, Minister of State. However, they have not done anything about it. There was really no increase in quality. Another important point: They said that 1998 was the year of security policy change. An option report will be submitted by the end of the first quarter at the latest. They also said: I am absolutely convinced that this report will be drawn up in a very constructive way and that this will also make a decisive contribution to the future of Europe's security policy. Mr. Minister, where is your option report if it was so important? – He has shown only the following: You are the great announcer in this government, but you have no chance to stand up to your coalition partner. Not the least chance! On the contrary: They are only being tolerated by him at the moment – you hear it all the time – because the EU Presidency is in the house and because at the moment you cannot break the big mess. But you don't bring anything else except great promises. Of your budget speech, which has actually not taken place, because you have not brought any facts, it is just as unthinkable as last year's; nor is your commitment to cover the withdrawal of Albania's quota, as far as the ammunition is concerned, and what you have told us about the legal security of Austrian soldiers in the U.S. mission. This is where the Foreign Minister said two weeks ago that you spoke the untruth, Mr Minister, that no legal cover was provided. [[Abg. Steibl: This language is an insanity!]] You once again have deliberately said the untruth to this House! And a man who is constantly telling us the untruth, Mr. Federal Minister, can and will not trust us – and not your budget at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9344	Mr Hans Helmut Moserzu spoke on an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9372	Federal Minister! High house! Mr Maitz claimed that I had not tabled any amendments in the course of the debate on military reform. - That's wrong. It is true that I have tabled amendments in the course of the deliberations of the Council of State Defense. These are also to be read in the protocol of the Defence Council: Changes in the allocation of military command areas to the two corps, requests for improvement in preparation for foreign operations, changes in the division of troops with the grenadier brigades and hunter brigades, amendments to the maintenance of the military brigades, application for the reorganisation of the arms schools and a re-organisation of the air forces.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9405	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung, the way in which you referred to those women who have taken the step into the German army here as "little negroes" is certainly to be rejected! This is further discrimination against women by representatives of the Freedom Party. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steibl.]] If you, who have been freshly praised today, can still laugh, that's your problem! In any case, we Socialists have a different attitude towards women. For us, they're not the "little negros"! This is the case at most in the area of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. May. Posch: This is a racist! The President should have called for an order! That would have deserved an order call!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The changes in the security and military strategic environment from 1990 onwards resulted in a new situation for the security of Austria. Instead of the previous threat, there have been risks that may arise from regionally limited national but also intergovernmental conflicts in the immediate and indirect neighbourhood. In addition to the unchanged core task, the defence of Austria against external military attacks, the federal army therefore takes priority over the tasks of border security and border protection at threatened or threatened sections of the state border. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition partner! This is also the reason why this development has been taken into account in the budget. The threat picture from outside has become another, and this very fact is also contained in this defence budget. High house! In the context of the military reform, SPÖ and ÖVP have established the starting position for the future tasks of the German army alongside the defence of our country externally on three key points: border security and border defence, assistance and international peacekeeping operations in humanitarian aid and disaster aid. An extensive paper on the division of the army has also been prepared by the two coalition parties or by the negotiating team. Many of the points in this paper on the division of the army are long-standing demands of SPÖs, who have experienced implementation in this paper. I should just like to mention a few: holding fast to the general obligation of military service and the military system and the adapted range of forces for the organisation of operations. The period after which military soldiers can be used for exercises is reduced from ten to eight years. The sanctions of the military authorities, the creation of a separate command for international operations and the coordination of the mechanized force by the General Force Inspector are also foreseen. – One could continue this through another long list. A very important point in the 1999 defence budget is the investment package. In this context, Mr President, I should like to remind you once again of the Mech package adopted by the Council of State Defense in 1996. This mech package comprises a total of 8 billion schilling. This should, of course, primarily achieve the highest possible domestic value added. This area has not yet been satisfactorily solved. This high domestic value added is still a little lacking in the 1999 budget. Federal Minister! In our view, a ten-year procurement programme should be drawn up in close cooperation between army procurement and industry, because this development is absolutely necessary for the Austrian army producer, the Steyr-Daimler-Puch-AG. The Steyr-Daimler-Puch-AG needs these orders very easily. It needs it to continue its production without interruption. It also needs it in order to ensure jobs in this region, jobs that have otherwise been lost. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I should like to ask you to pay more attention to this area, because it is this point that is also of great concern to us as a coalition partner, because nothing goes on in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9476	Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). However, ladies and gentlemen, in six minutes I will have to interrupt you. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: I only need 4 minutes!]] Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9506	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on a rather small but very important point, namely: Women with the federal government. It is very interesting how the development is now. We were in favour of this expansion of the federal army, we find it quite necessary that this male axis should be completed, as women have advantages that men do not have – and vice versa. I believe that if someone voluntarily submits to such a regime and voluntarily seeks his/her career opportunities there, then one should be quite helpful to him/her on the part of politics. That's where I like what media has been to be found lately – I quote –: Due to the acute lack of qualified cadre staff and the increasing frustration in the male team, the ministry has great plans with the ladies. – So obviously it is not just a wish to integrate ladies, but it is a necessity due to the acute lack. Mr Gaál then said: The latte in the sports tests was clearly too high. And on top of that: Organizational defects and errors in management have been resolved. There was what we could all predict: The male values and male attributes, which are very important for a soldier, have simply been given a percentage line and are trying, as it were, seamlessly to mint on women, only: Women are not "better men" in the army – they don't want to be either – but the women are a complement to the system. It is said that the ladies are currently creating just twelve support. If they want to pass the subofficial test in half a year, they have to create 15. The human biologist Puntigam: Women need longer to build up the necessary raw strength. Our trainers therefore have the explicit command to train with the recruits lying support as often as possible. – Yes, women have quite different ways to get involved, they are usually much more flexible and agile. [[Abg. Boy: The backpack is the same for everyone!]] I would like to know how you apply a scale to men when you have to go on such a thin latte! [[the speaker shows a corresponding width with two fingers]] That would definitely be better for women than men. But suddenly it is no longer so important to train that, to evaluate it higher. I mean, you should think together – I know that, fortunately, there are really open ears on the part of your resort – which standards are indeed necessary, where on the one hand raw power is necessary and on the other hand, where women with skill may be able to compensate for what men do not bring together. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I wanted to say that in addition. In conclusion: You should look at a "NEWS" article, in which it means – I quote –: Interpreting in the battle for gender. Women do not like to express themselves individually, only if they are quite sure to know the right answer, if they are afraid of ridicule or think that foresight is considered unfemale. Women react to stress rather depressive, men aggressive. Women have the insatiable need to learn why they should do what they have been told. The traditional superiors, who expected obedience to be a command, were troubled at first. And by the way, it says: They dress their opinions in the form of a question, usually express criticism positively, often do not express their concerns clearly; Interpreting aids are useful. - Quote. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Yeah, that's the point. We should have interpreters; we have very good women. There are some women who have cheated in the army but others want to enter, and we should support them, according to female criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9570	Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the treatment of a urgent request is now planned. I am therefore interrupting the negotiations on the advisory group of the Federal Finance Act for 1999 on the topic of national defence in order to deal with the urgent question. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Gabriela Moserund Comrade to the Federal Chancellor on the failure to take measures and the remaining possibilities of the Federal Government against the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant in Slovakia (4460/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9604	A reading of the urgent request is not necessary because it was distributed in writing. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9719	Since the government bank is still unoccupied, I am briefly interrupting the meeting of the National Council. We will then immediately start negotiating the urgent question. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 15.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9746	I take up the interrupted meeting again and give the floor to Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moseral's first questioner for the reasons of the question, with the speaking time according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9777	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen! 180 kilometres east of here, from Vienna, a reactor can be activated every hour, which will threaten the population of both Slovakia and Austria. It is an action of a sovereign state. We in Austria have no international handling against this activation of the burning rods of a neighboring state. However, it concerns both the local population and the Austrian population, as well as the population of our neighbouring countries, as well as Western Europe. Mochovce is the precedent badhin'. It is the first nuclear power plant, which is a combination of western and eastern technology, of Russian construction with French-German retrofitting. This initial and pilot project is intended to show more or less targeting and exemplary that it is possible to bring Eastern European nuclear power plants to Western European safety standards. That's the meaning of Mochovce. And now, in this situation, an internationally recognized expert from an internationally renowned committee of experts of 22 members screams: Fire on the roof!, a GAU can threaten in six years. It is high time we pulled the emergency brake, activation must not be carried out. It is not responsible for giving the Mochovce nuclear power plant a certificate according to Western safety standards. . Now, in this situation, a cry for help, now, in this situation, a hectic nuclear policy of the Federal Government, which is more or less facing finished facts. The facts are: Mochovce has been improved in some areas compared to 1994 and 1995. The facts are: There are two sovereign states, there are international agreements, and there are no internationally binding directives that make safety standards clear. Against this background, and in view of the helplessness of the Austrian Federal Government, which is intervening at EU level, which sends notes that sends rapid newsletters, the hectic telephone, which 14 foreign and environmental ministers in the European Member States also want to bring to the fore, who are now seeking alliances that have been moving more or less helpful and helpful in Europe since the end of April, and in Austria is now trying to reach the last opportunities for media pressure, in this context, what Austrian nuclear policy has so far failed to achieve so far. The fact that we are now in this situation, I believe, is that, in our opinion, many experts believe that Austria's nuclear policy and anti-CFC policy have, first of all, put on the wrong horse, namely safety standards, instead of – that would have been the right horse – on exit, on decommissioning, on alternative energy forms. Austria did not send the right horse to the race in time – I will document it in detail later; I now call it the years 1994/95. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Austrian Federal Government, you, Federal Chancellor, put your nuclear policy on the wrong horse, which means: Safety standards. This has led you to a nuclear dead end, and I can briefly explain why. There are no clear and clearly declared international safety standards, more or less according to Ö-standard or UN standard. There are variants and norms of a western kind, there are them in the east, but there are no fixed criteria, there is no clear latte, there is no clear measuring glass, where it then says: This is the safety standard that we must definitely afford. With your emphasis on safety standards, you have practically been lured into the wrong alley. Secondly, we believe that you still saw the horse from the tail: They have not worked to ensure that, after already 1990 the Bohunice nuclear power station has been called a risk factor in bad faith as an atomic threat of first rank, after Mr. Professor Kromp, who is now doing the most important work among the experts, painted more or less the nuclear GAU on the wall in 1990, closes Bohunice immediately, and that there are alternative scenarios that there is money from the EU to convert, exit, and take another energetic approach. You missed it. As has already been said, you have stooped the wrong horse from the tail, and – and that is the worst thing – you have let it, third, galop in the wrong direction. What do I mean by that? The wrong direction has said: Now we're waiting for what the experts say! So you've delivered yourself from the beginning to a reviewer's dispute. Remember: As early as 1990, it was clear that the eastern technology that the Russian technology at Bohunice can lead to a GAU. Now, 1998, the result of your nuclear policy is that the Bohunice nuclear power station is still in operation, that it is not shut down that it is not being reformed that millions or some billions have been invested in the improvement of safety standards, but it is no longer the talk of the Slovak Government's having the promise to stop the Bohunice nuclear power station. – This has been the result of your nuclear policy. I have another element to add: In the 1990s, under Chancellor Vranitzky, there was probably the parole and the foreign exchange and the mission of an nuclear power-free central Europe. They have gently converted this model of an CFC-free Central Europe, converted towards CFCs with safety standards. We want safety standards – I can quote you; at the special session of 13. On March 1, you said that – we want to pursue a "realist nuclear policy". – This "realist nuclear policy" has led us precisely to this dead end, in which we are unfortunately now: Safety standards, safety standards are simply ignored: from neighbouring electricity companies, from neighbouring governments, from Slovakia, from Me#iar and from the Slovak electricity company. Another fact: We Greens have repeatedly sent them test reports which clearly show that the safety standards in Mochovce are far from being achieved. I quote here test reports from the years 1987 to 1993 – please, these are test reports from the own, the Slovak nuclear authority. Its own regulatory control instrument has repeatedly listed the deficits, but it does not warn you, which has not led to resort to the exit, to the changeover, to alternative scenarios. What do these test reports declare and what do they prove from 1987 to 1993? – only partially eliminated damage during installation of steam generators and emergency cooling systems; Quality production programmes are not met; gross defects in the storage of stainless materials for emergency refrigeration systems, main coolant line and main circulation pumps (1988); insufficient expertise of quality controllers (money penalties up to 40 000 – then still Czech kroners); defects in the performance of the control welds on the ground of the fuel element basket in Block I, power distributor on the emergency guard without quality assurance; defects during transport and installation of equipment in the reactor building (money penalty due to only partially eliminated defects); Cables due to poor storage mechanically damaged (1990); no program for the protection of already installed plants (1991); large-scale corrosion in the area of both blocks (money penalty); defects during welding of the primary circuit; no documentation of the areas to be welded; insufficient quality assurance programmes of imported cables (1992); corrosion on 16 prell elements; Quality controllers have insufficient training and knowledge of the rules; despite prohibitions due to inadequate documentation installation of the tax system. What is now presented to us as a major security problem, the material of the pressure vessel, has been documented since 1987 as a "failure", as "missing control", as a "errorous installation" et cetera. You know that we have presented this to you annually, and yet you have insisted that these shortcomings be eliminated. It is possible to continue this list of missed opportunities. There was then the great signature action 1994/95, in which 1.2 million Austrians expressed their fear by demanding that Mochovce not go into operation that Bohunice be shut down. They have then stopped, at international pressure, with international cooperation, the EBRD credit, that the Mochovce nuclear power station is being rebuilt, the financial possibility of turning off the financial tap. But – and that is quite, very essential! – At that time, 1994/1995, they did not allow for a turning point in Slovakia’s energy policy through a generous financial offer. That would have been a bad idea! This would have been the opportunity to propose to the Slovaks a large, serious, professional energy scenario, based on gas steam power plants with power-heat-coupling, with alternative energy forms, funded by EU-credite, and to present this as a way of finally celebrating the premiere of a country – away from nuclear power, to a clean energy supply, to an energy supply that has the future. You missed this opportunity for a future energy supply especially in Eastern European countries. You turned the cock off, but on the other hand you did not turn up the cock for the financing of alternative, better forms of energy. I'll throw that before you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was the most serious mistake in your nuclear policy – and then it went down gradually. From then on, the discrepancy of disassembly is to be observed, namely the farewell, the silent farewell of the currency: We want a nuclear-free Central Europe! From this point on, you have then turned toward safety standards: Fix security failures, hope for retrofits, hope for improvement. Much has been improved – not a question; the expert judgment has been disputed – only: Essential things have not been improved. Now I come back to the basics again. There was already a first "Walkdown", and this first "Walkdown" in November 1995 clearly showed – I still have the reports written in English here; November 1995 – I quote literally – : "Even considering some necessary adjustments and security improvements will be due to this design" – that is essential! – "the Mochovce nuclear power station does not meet the Western standards. It would also not comply with the latest Russian rules." This was more or less already the technical judgment in 1995, the signal that the path of retrofitting, improving, securing must not be taken at all, because it is nevertheless leading to the dead end, because basic concepts are misplaced. It is also undisputed that there is still no containment. What is in itself the once-in-a-life of a Western security standard, namely a containment, a refill of the reactor, is not there. Although it is now being discussed and tricked at material strength, there is still no fundamental requirement for the safety of a nuclear power plant. This was already known in 1995, and despite this knowledge, you have continued the wrong path of your safety philosophy, and this path has just led into a dead end. I'm still allowed to document this. They have been able to observe that in 1996 - I believe it was in Preßburg – or Bratislava - a gas steam power plant was put into operation, smaller than Mochovce, much cheaper than retrofitting in the safety sector of Mochovce, a gas steam power plant that immediately supplied energy in the power-heat combination, which was built in a construction period of one and a half years, at a fraction of the cost, which was converted by 2.3 billion schilling, while on the other hand the security standards for Mochovce amounted to 9 billion schilling. – That is the error calculation! I would like to make this clear to you once and for all. [[The speaker shall hold a poster in the height on which the location of the nuclear power stations in Slovakia can be seen on the front side and an invoice is recorded on the back.]] Federal Chancellor! Here are the one side of the medal: Austria is surrounded by nuclear power plants, which are partially scrap reactors – Mochovce as an upgraded and retrofitted scrap reactor is currently the current occasion – and on the other hand you could have made available around 9 billion schillings for Mochovce at credit level, no less than three times as much energy by gas steam power plants of the Slovak population. It's a simple calculation example: On the one hand a not safe mochovce – 9 billion schilling! – on the other hand, three gas steam power plants, the bringing virtually three times as much performance as Mochovce, also a sum of 9 billion schilling. Please: They'd really be safe! This is a future-looking technology, which is sustainable energy supply. However, you have not employed such an account, and that is why we need to strongly condemn this missing path of Austrian nuclear policy here and today. That would have been the point in 1994/1995. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then what happened? – The binding exit scenarios in the course of the negotiations on EU enlargement. In this context, there was a so-called nuclear package with the NGOs in Austria in November 1997, and in this nuclear package you have declared that you have more or less signed a pact that there must be binding exit scenarios for the candidate countries, for the enlargement of the EU. This is exactly what you're going to do now. You have left this course by participating in this security discussion. No longer the exit, but the so-called realistic course is now uppered in your case. This "realistic course" has as a flag the safety, and security leads us to the dilemma, because the discussion about the safety standards always takes place among experts who are partly different opinions. We have drawn your attention to this. It is not true that you are facing the ruins of your nuclear policy from today on. We have repeatedly exhorted you and have also made constructive proposals, and we also have you at the special meeting of the National Council of 13 May. March again pointed out that in terms of Mochovce, in terms of Bohunice fire on the roof, you have that commissioning is imminent. And when did you start hectic diplomatic activities? – At the end of April, when Me#iar no longer wanted the assured second "Walkdown". Then you tried to put all the levers in motion, but, as already said, unfortunately let the wrong horse continue to gallop in the wrong direction. We then have this second "Walkdown" on 5 May. In May, more or less already considered to be in vain labor of love, and it turned out that the experts were not taken seriously by the Slovak operator society, and that some of them were abstained from doing so. And now you stand back to the wall again, and from this position we also want to send you to a new round of negotiations with constructive proposals. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] What is possible? Look for Upper Austria: There is an anti-temelin officer there, there is lobbying on site where Czechs in Prague do their own information work. They had long had to do information work in Bratislava, in Mochove themselves with the people there, so that the people there did not get the glue on nuclear politicians. What else is necessary? What are your options? Mr Bundeskanzler, of course we have caused you to stay among us by the urgent, but you should be aware of it for a long time by an atomic commuting mission, you should fly back and forth between Vienna – London, Vienna – Paris, Vienna – Luxembourg and try to allow reason at EU level through international pressure in Slovakia, in Mochove. You don't do that. You send Depeschen, the Foreign Minister sends eil letters, and you trust them to...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9951	Ladies and gentlemen, please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9966	... that Me#iar does not close his mind. I don't have that hope. They will probably only be able to dispose of Austrian nuclear policy with potassium-iodid tablets.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e9997	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor has notified himself. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10018	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is needed in this undoubtedly very difficult and serious situation as a clear signal from the Austrian legislator and the Austrian Government is a common, closed appearance and an appeal to Slovak policy, to the Slovak government, to the Slovak authorities, to take the safety concerns of the experts seriously and not to take activation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen! I regret that you have not resisted the temptation to demonstrate here a political hack between government and opposition. This shows the Slovak population, the Slovak government, but also the international community an Austrian fragmentation. I believe that what you have said here is that Austrian nuclear policy is simply not correct from the point of view of the vision of a nuclear-free Central Europe. I last had 13th. This is an opportunity here in the National Council to say very clearly and clearly that we are maintaining this objective of this perspective. On the other hand, the Austrians – and you have also mentioned this – have to experience a very, very long history at the Mochove nuclear power plant. This project, the Mochovce nuclear power plant, and the resistance to this project, as I believe, have indeed already been a story that also shows the tireless efforts of the Austrian Federal Government to prevent this power plant and to ensure that Austria continues to operate towards nuclear-free Central Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we must take note - and I ask you to do so at this very hour - that the establishment and operation of nuclear power plants is still an internationally acceptable activity. We must also note that decisions on the establishment and operation of nuclear power plants remain largely subject to national sovereignty. What Austria defines as a goal for itself and for Central Europe, namely the non-use of nuclear energy, we must also admit to other countries. This does not mean – and I am saying that strongly – that we have watched the developments in our neighboring countries or elsewhere. We have already massively criticized the project at that time in 1994 and 1995 and also pointed out the internal contradictions of this project. It is Austria's merit – and I mean the Federal Government, the High House, but also those 1.2 million Austrians who at the time expressed their rejection with their signature – that these contradictions were also shown. It is unlikely to be expected that this has also contributed to the fact that the project manager withdrew his credit applications from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London and EURATOM. Not least in view of the economically questionable completion of this nuclear power plant, the Federal Government has already offered massive support and assistance to the Slovak Republic in the development of a non-nuclear alternative. This offer – and you know that – has not been accepted by the Slovak Government to our greatest regret. In this context, I would like to stress once again that, of course, the development of energy economic concepts can only take place in conjunction with the country concerned, and that unilateral action - and if it is still so well-informed - does not result. Nevertheless, we have not given up the efforts to achieve the energy economic dialogue, and we have succeeded in infinitely laboring little work to achieve some of the results that the petitioners put forward in their explanatory statement. Regrettably, however, these partial results with regard to the power-heat-coupling potential in Slovakia could not lead the decision-makers there to abandon the completion of the Mochove nuclear power plant. We have, of course, continued to strive to obtain concrete technical information about the retrofitting measures planned or implemented by the operator. Ladies and gentlemen! If you think that there is a sudden break-out in May of the Federal Government, I should like to remind you that immediately after the publication of the report on the first visit, which took place in August 1997, I pointed out in a note to the Slovak Government in September 1997 the need for a second visit and, although there is no international right to do so, requested and demanded the possibility of Austria to conduct a second visit with an expert committee. There is now a very precise sequence of time, and I had the opportunity to present it to you in an informal discussion which took place at 2 p.m. with all the energy speakers of the parties represented in Parliament. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They know that it was not easy to reach the agreement of the Slovak Government for the second necessary security and that it was not easy to obtain the approval of Slovakia with regard to the international experts. There have been laborious, weeks-long discussions, which have been interconnected with the quotation of the Slovak ambassador and with writing to the Slovak government. After many interventions last November, these discussions led to a visit from me to Slovakia, and from this occasion Me#iar agreed that an Austrian expert commission would receive all the documents. Thus, after many interventions during a new visit to Me#iars in Vienna in April of this year, the definitive agreements on this second visit could be concluded. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be stressed that the international team of experts, which I am responsible for, has also noted improvements in the safety of the nuclear power plant. However, I say that with all clarity, these progress has faded, in view of the dramatic shortcomings of the reactor pressure tank of the first block. As you have heard, these shortcomings themselves have surprised the experts who carried out the tour. Without the visits made by the Austrian Federal Government and by me, these shortcomings would never have come to light – with all the consequences that would have resulted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore important that we have the opportunity to gain clarity about the actual extent of the defects from the documents which have been withdrawn from the experts. The primary concern of the Federal Government is to bring the Slovak Government back to the table of expert discussions and to achieve a shift in activation until the open questions are resolved. Of course, no one can say here and today whether the experts can even recommend commissioning. One thing is clear: If the necessary documents are not provided and the discussions of the experts are not possible, then from today's point of view activation is highly absurd, uneconomic and dangerous, and therefore it must be maintained. This is to be the signal of today's sitting, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP, as well as of the Agg. May. Barmüller.]] In my opinion, it is necessary – already well-known – to note that the Austrian Government and the Austrian Parliament reject the use of nuclear energy. Ladies and gentlemen! In this situation, it is a matter of combating specific foreseeable security risks with all power and all commonness. Although Austria - as I have already said - maintains its fundamental rejection of nuclear energy, and even though Austria – as I have already done – has continued to strive for the energy-economic dialogue with Slovakia, Austria must demand that nuclear power plants be operated at the highest possible level of safety. It must be said that everything else would be irresponsible at the moment in my view. We are concerned – I stress this again – to bring the discourse back to the expert level. Ladies and gentlemen! As much as I can understand your indignation, I must also warn against radicalization. A constructive dialogue must be able to reach a common solution to the security of the population of Slovakia, the population of Austria and the population of Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can now come to the answer to the individual questions. Question 1: The Federal Government has already referred in particular to the problem of this project on the occasion of the granting of credit guarantees by the German Government. At that time, the German government was still convinced that this nuclear power plant can achieve a high level of safety – internationally recognized. We have also informed not only the governments of France and Germany, but also all the other states of the European Union and the governments of the neighbouring countries of the Slovak Republic of both the approach and the worrying results. This involved the urgent Austrian desire to postpone activation until the open questions were resolved. On question 2: As I have already said, the development of a nonnuclear alternative, of course, presupposes the cooperation of the Slovak Government. In addition, advertising for support for Austria's antinuclear attitude seems to be not very useful at the time, especially for the two major European states, which operate the largest number of nuclear power plants. Question 3: These contacts have already been made. However, it should be noted that neither Siemens nor Framatome were involved in the manufacture or quality assurance of the reactor pressure vessel. Question 4: Both Austria's opposition to energy use of nuclear energy and Austria's preference for non-nuclear energy strategies – in particular renewable energy sources and efficiency-enhancing measures – are more than sufficient known to the President of the European Commission. Austria has consistently represented this position at all levels from the beginning of its EU membership. The intervention of the Foreign Minister at Council level yesterday was – as I made clear in my introduction – the one that requires the current situation. They know that Austria was concerned and, as a result of the Austrian initiative, the question of the safety structure of nuclear power plants has been included in Agenda 2000. Question 5: In principle, it is up to the Federal Government to contact the governments of other states, as well as the task of Austrian political parties to contact similar political parties from other countries. As far as my role as chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Austria is concerned, I can assure you that I use every opportunity to clarify the Austrian position on nuclear energy policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On question 6: First of all, I should like to say that the articles of the Nuclear Safety Convention cited by the applicant parties concern obligations of the Contracting Parties which they have to carry out within the framework of their national legislation or within the framework of their national supervisory authorities. In addition, I can say that calling an extraordinary meeting in accordance with Rule 23 would require the approval of the majority of the parties. The statements you have quoted in the Government document refer to the overall review process set out in this Convention. As you know, its implementation is only at the beginning. It is expected that this process will be very lengthy and can only be effective in the long term. However, I would like to remind you that although Austria calls this Convention progress, it has only considered it a first step. On Question No 7, I may refer to the answer to Question No 1. Question 8: The structures or institutions created in the course of the now long-term implementation of the Austrian nuclear energy policy ensure competent and comprehensive consultation of the Federal Government. As far as future activities of the Federal Government are concerned, I am seeking to understand that, given the dynamics of the development of swift announcements here and today, I would like to distance myself. The further steps of the Federal Government will, in any case, depend substantially on the further behaviour of the Slovak Government. Questions 9, 10 and 11: Allow me to point out that I have already made it clear in the basic remarks that the Federal Government has by no means changed its anti-atomic policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question 12: I would like to quote the following, Mrs Moser: The Federal Government has no instruments available to prevent a privately run company from making a questionable economic decision in another country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, I assure you once again that we will continue our efforts in this field of energy. On the question 13: Since the safety problems in the two blocks are the same, all Austrian interventions and all Austrian advances apply to the Mochovce nuclear power plant as a whole. Question 14: I have already said that it cannot be said that Austria would have or would have accepted the start-up of the nuclear power plant. I therefore cannot see any disastrous effects on the arguments of the Federal Government towards the Czech Republic either. The security issue can also be measured not only on a single criterion. For the Czech Republic, as well as for the Slovak Republic and for all other neighbouring countries, we must insist on the rejection of the energetic use of nuclear energy and that in our relations with the reform states we will continue our energy economic efforts in this sense in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Let us take advantage of today's hour – since at the same time in Slovakia the government is meeting to decide whether to activate the fuel rods or not – to send a joint, closed, strong appeal from Austria to the Slovak population and the Slovak government to refrain from doing this activation as long as the safety of this power plant is not ensured for people in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10228	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his reply and for the clear words in the direction of a neighbouring country. We are now going into the debate. The speaking times are known: You can reach a maximum of 25 minutes per club and a maximum of 10 minutes per speaker. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10256	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr. Bundeskanzler, because there is no such thing as nuclear safety – and will never exist – we have a nuclear barrier law in Austria for good reasons. All the risks, which – I remember well – were presented by the critics of nuclear power in Austria in the context of the Zwentendorf debate: from the Super-GAU in Chernobyl to the criminal plutonium trade to the strategy of concealment and cover-up, as we last had to know in connection with the castor transports in Germany. Governments that rely on nuclear safety are becoming unbelievable in their own policies, because nuclear safety is not there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we can hold this fundamental debate today, and I think it is quite possible to come to a common, strong Austrian procedure. However, I would also like to ask you, Federal Chancellor, to take our fundamental arguments a little more seriously. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: I know that too!]] Federal Chancellor! However, as my colleague Gabriela Moser said, it is not really a nuance between exit concepts and safety concepts, but these so-called concepts of nuclear safety are the opposite of exit concepts. Those who rely on the concepts of security investment provide companies such as Siemens and Framatome revenues in billions and prevent a rapid and effective exit. Security investments are also investments in nuclear power, and they are wrong! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second, Mr Bundeskanzler: They have repeatedly stressed that every possible step towards Slovakia has been taken. I think that's a fact. You have appealed, you have quoted the Ambassador, you have talks at government level, but – and this is our second massive criticism, Mr. Federal Chancellor! – Slovakia, at least Slovakia alone, is the wrong partner. This may have to be interpreted in this context as a certain arrogance of a richer state, a state which belongs to the circle of the EU Member States and in this case gives good advice, but which is already a bit more hesitant when it comes to making money available, and which does not appear with the same emphasis, especially where those who make these so-called security investments possible. Federal Chancellor! There is a single safety in connection with nuclear power plants, and this is: If something happens when containers are irradiated on transport, then it is absolutely safe to hide, hide, hide and dement! You will receive proof of this in these days, not from Slovakia, but from Germany. The first contact persons to fill the gap that occurred after the exit of the EBRD were the large companies from Germany and France. In all forms, Mr. Bundeskanzler: To the German Government, to the French Government, also to the companies involved, namely Siemens and Framatome, has not been done with the same clarity! I also miss the fact that the German and French ambassadors had been quoted in the Chancellor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the wrong line, and it is – at least for itself – the wrong contact person, especially in view of the fact that those funds that would make it easy to get out are managed within the framework of the EU. 50 billion schillings are available for so-called security investments in the EURATOM Fund. That is to say, it is not an investment that serves the population in Slovakia, the Czech Republic or Slovenia, but investment that Siemens and Framatome will serve, money that goes in the wrong direction. In this respect, I think Austria should negotiate with much more emphasis that these funds should be used to shut down at least those nuclear power stations in which we have agreed some time ago that they cannot be made safe. This is the only way to make them safe – or not to put a power plant like Mochovce into operation. Then it would be safe. Federal Chancellor! The money for this is there, it is available within the framework of the European Union. It is only necessary to build a gas steam power plant and thus to provide the population with the same amount of energy as it could be obtained from Mochovce. There are other companies that deserve to do so, and they may be making a less skilled lobbying among their governments. It would require a great deal of political courage to act clearly with economically very powerful partners and also with the large governments in Europe. However, it would significantly increase the Austrian credibility in the reform states, which are trying to expand the EU. At all events, I think there is an essential link to EU enlargement. If Austria had expressed unmistakably to reform states such as Slovakia that we support them – we are their ambassadors in Brussels, we are interested in the fact that no new Iron curtain is created, we want economic, social and cultural cooperation, we are also prepared to fight for means that make economic renewal in the states and a social level equalisation possible quickly – then we find quite different hearings when we say that we too have our priorities and are seeking to understand them. But with this ambiguity, it has never been presented here by the trade unions and by the government, but rather one wants to defend a little and not to let a little be taken with. That is why Slovakia's response is not quite incomprehensible. It is therefore a priority objective not only to bring Slovakia to the negotiating table – under the title of the exit and not security investment – but to make it clear to Germany, France and the EU that we are calling for Austrian funding for the exit, but not for an ever deeper entry. Federal Chancellor! They cannot also make it clear to us and to the population that there would be no resources available here to support Slovakia more actively in the efforts to achieve more ecologically oriented energy concepts. Federal Chancellor! Perhaps you can also say a word: 11.3 billion schilling for the so-called Mech package, tanks in the sense of NATO upgrading – NATO enlargement is unfortunately far ahead of EU enlargement – investment in billions of equipment instead of the urgently needed investment in a civilian Marshall plan to restructure the economy! Federal Chancellor! Wouldn't you also use it to buy, instead of once more foreign tanks – to buy, as has been said, more than 11 billion schilling – perhaps once again and with great emphasis on Slovakia, a friendly offer: We want to participate in a gas steam power plant, and we ask Slovakia to distance itself from a life-threatening Hasard game at our border.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10311	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10341	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Did you say he was locked up?]] Mr Reichhold, you can speak, perhaps also on the energy debate. Maybe your energy's enough. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Did you ask yourself what really happened? Are you excused by Mr Trenk?]] My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Excuse Mr Trenk?]] We are discussing the issue of Mochovce today as if nothing had happened in this respect for a long time. I must remind you, however, that our efforts started in 1990. At the time, it was about the nuclear power plants xxx. Eg. Jaslovské Bohunice, and also at the time we were given the opportunity to send an expert commission, which is subject to a safety-technical assessment by the power plants. At the time, as today, there was an urgent need for action and the Federal Chancellor recommended that it be used with all the appropriate means to work on an out-of-service operation of these blocks. There was a comprehensive study at the time in which it was examined whether a conversion to a gas power plant would be possible. It was followed by an exchange of letters with the former Prime Minister of Czechoslovakia, Dr Calfa, and this led to a desire for joint cooperation in the fields of energy generation and environmental energy use. In 1991, a comprehensive energy, financial and industrial policy package was offered by the Austrian Federal Government in case blocks I and II were shut down in Bohunice. At that time, funds amounted to about 3 billion schillings. This example shows that it has never failed in money. The offers from our site were always very generous. We are pleased to see that there has been cooperation in the energy sector. For example, with Austrian help the power plant Novaky was dissatisfied. There were and are a number of other projects, and I would like to note that the basis of the discussion with the Slovak Government has always been preserved and has never been abandoned. It is pleased to exist – although under very sad signs – to this day. Ladies and gentlemen! But we should also look at the situation, as it stands for us in Slovakia, at once quite realistic – and not only by any glasses, be it pink or green. Some of what is happening over there has already been said. There is a concept for a power plant according to East Technology, which was built there. In the meantime, there was the break, the wall has fallen, and as a result, a new market has become visible to the Western nuclear industry at once, whether it be Framatome, EdF, Westinghouse, Siemens or others. We all know that there will hardly be any more power plants in the West. Fortunately, there will be no further nuclear power plants. Thank God! [[Abg. Wabl: And why?]] This does not mean, however, that it allows the economy to be used, but companies are trying to find new markets. For the countries in the East, electricity is largely a commodity, with the help of which foreign exchange can be earned. In this context and in this area, I have already referred to it more often. Even if you don't want to hear it, it doesn't change the facts. They know that at that time we succeeded in a joint effort to prevent the financing of further expansion, reconstruction and reconstruction of Mochovce through the EBRD. Only the company giants, the ones behind it, were able to put their own funding – from any source – on their feet. Unfortunately, in Slovakia, it is not about whether, if Mochovce does not operate, the light goes out or not. In fact, the light will not go out, it will not happen; Slovakia has enough electricity. However, Slovakia should have concluded supply contracts with some neighbouring countries in the east. I am thinking in particular of Hungary. They know that the EdF has bought itself very strongly into Hungarian EVUs. The EdF will certainly have a great interest in obtaining electricity from Slovakia via Mochovce and continuing to sell it with a corresponding margin in Hungary. These are some of the economic backgrounds we have to deal with. It is very difficult – the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it – to intervene in private-sector establishments and to give appropriate orders. One can wish for everything and can recommend everything to them, but whether they comply with it is on a completely different sheet. If we look at this issue – quite specifically on the subject of Mochovce – the text of the motion for a resolution in the European Parliament of 15 December 1990. In May, it will be possible to find out how cautiously the European Parliament is, for example, considering in the European Union that the development of the energy sector in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of the former Soviet Union is of strategic importance, or considering that it is the right of every state to determine the use of primary energy itself – the sovereignty of every state in the European Union as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria itself has given great importance in the accession negotiations to the fact that we can remain sovereign in the field of primary energy supply in order not to have to take over nuclear energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My previous speakers, Mrs Petrovic, and above all Mrs Moser, who tabled the motion, meant that our policy was misguided in terms of security and that it was going in the wrong direction. Please read the motion for a resolution, namely that, I believe, at least ten points, if not more, of the European Parliament's motion for a resolution: Almost everyone is concerned with the safety aspects. It welcomes, for example, the agreement between the Austrian Government and the Slovak Government, which provides for the review of the safety aspects of this power plant and the evaluation of the results by an international and independent expert commission. Or: It is expected to publish the results of the safety assessment carried out and calls on Slovakia to suspend the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant until the concerns regarding the safety of this plant have undoubtedly been eliminated by independent experts and so on. The security aspect therefore plays a very important role in this context, and we should not lose sight of it. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is the right approach – and I do not want to know only about Mochovce – that Mr President Fischer and the Head of Delegation of the Socialist Group Hannes Swoboda on 23 March. In June the European Parliament wanted to hold a hearing to this end and that it was intended to invite Austrian parliamentarians to do so. Perhaps it is possible for us to engage in joint parliamentary lobbying in the main Member States on anti-Atom. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I believe that if we imagine that we only need to cut our fingers and our neighbors will immediately get out of nuclear technology and say goodbye to nuclear power, we will not do the job ourselves. You know just as I do that not. The Federal Chancellor has previously carried out how hard the negotiations and the talks are to make, remembering that our neighbouring countries are as sovereign in their decisions as we are. It is even pointed out in the European Parliament's motion for a resolution that they are in all cases sovereign in the field of primary energy supply. If we consider this, then we are certainly doing a better service, namely, the exit from nuclear power, in view of the fact that we conduct the discussion honestly and realistically.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10426	The next Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10451	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Austria has decided more than 20 years ago not to extract energy from nuclear power in Austria and has had the courage not to put a built-in nuclear power plant into operation because there have been concerns about the so-called peaceful use of nuclear power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Take back and apologise!]] The events of the last few days around the Castor transports in Germany show just how sensitive this area is, and how quite legitimate is the distrust that the population brings to the use of nuclear power. Austria has committed itself – and I am very glad that the Federal Government has never deviated from this line – to stand up for a nuclear-free central Europe. Austria has still to learn or has learned to live with the reality that there are nuclear power plants in Europe, both in Western Europe and in Central and Eastern Europe. It must be our aim, however, to convince all those who are still convinced of the nuclear power today that a medium and long-term exit from nuclear energy is useful. The global development confirms this: There has been no new registration of nuclear power plants in the United States for more than ten years; only more are being completed. This is because, in the meantime, one knows that the nuclear power is by no means the cheap energy for which it was considered in the 1950s and 1960s. Nuclear power is even one of the most expensive energies without calculating final storage costs. If you take the Chernobyl accident as an example, you must certainly call it the most expensive energy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from the economic damage that the nuclear power can do, we are also concerned about health damage. Therefore, in 1994 and 1995, when Slovakia publicly announced that it would build the Mochovce nuclear power station and applied for a loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Austria rightly filed its concerns and, with the attempt of a public hearing, asserted its neighbourhood rights. I should like to remind you that at the time there were four points to which the EBRD has committed its credit: a public hearing, a Western security standard – we all know that it is not precisely definable, but it is certainly not what Mochovce currently offers in this regard – the Least Cost principle and the decommissioning of Bohunice. Since Slovakia has not been able to meet these four conditions – because it is simply impossible to meet the second and third conditions, namely Western security standards or the highest possible safety standards and the least cost principle, because security standards cost money – it has ultimately – thanks to the Austrian lobbying of both the EBRD and the European Parliament and also in all other European countries – the Slovakia has withdrawn this request from the EBRD; it has never been on the agenda of the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development. Austria then continued to be active: We have not only implemented a "Walkdown", the "Walkdown", but we have also tried to offer alternative offers to the Slovaks. But – the Federal Chancellor has already said it – this always includes two: those who offer it, and those who accept it. It has just developed this project Mochovce into a prestige project of the Slovak Government and the Slovak Prime Minister, which he would like to complete and put into operation under all circumstances. We have also tried to raise awareness and express opinion with critical Slovakia's representatives – I myself have been in Prussia several times at appropriate meetings. I must admit that we have only succeeded to a certain extent, and the situation of consciousness in the Slovak population is not very high in this regard. We have also – for this I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and Mr. Vice-Chancellor in particular – enforced the "Walkdown 2", which finally made it possible at all to bring back to the public the serious security failures that were found and thus to reach not only a discussion but also the information of our European allies. I have, together with Mrs Flemming, the Member of the European Parliament and the former Minister for the Environment, held many talks over the last few days. We visited the "Slovenske Elekterne" in Prussia and held a long discussion there with both the Director-General Mikus and the Security Officer, which showed a great deal how inconspicuous and inaccessible the representatives of the Slovak Energy Organisation are – above all because they also tried to discredit the expert commission, parts of this expert commission, in particular Professor Kromp and Norbert Meyer, and to agree on scientific competence. Furthermore, they have repeatedly called on the IAEA; it is the competent authority for it. This led us to hold a long discussion last Wednesday with the Director-General and a security expert at the IAEA in Vienna, and they rightly said that it was not the IAEA's task to make a declaration of safety for Mochovce – and that they could not give it. They pointed out that in November they had a corresponding date in Mochovce with an approach and a review of the safety standards. The Slovak national authority has thus released the activation of the fuel rods, and it is also remarkable that it was not the head of that authority, but its alternate. There are conjectures that the head of the authority would not have been willing to do so. It is now urgent that we should make the security shortcomings identified by the Committee of Experts accessible to a broad public, to a broad European public, and that we should promote support and joint action in this area. The special safety problems lie with the reactor pressure tank. The issue is that the degree of sprinkling is far below the safety standards – even under the Slovak safety standards, which are deeper than the Soviet and even deeper than the Western European safety standards – and that, above all, the protection of the most endangered weld seam is not ensured. Ladies and gentlemen! We are right to worry about the safety report, that preliminary safety report that the expert committee has submitted. Although the Mochovce nuclear power station should be switched on this week and not happen immediately, it can be expected that in the near future – perhaps already in four or five years, but nothing protects us from being able to be sooner, but at the latest in the next ten to 25 years – the probability of a super-GAU threatens. In view of the danger that threatens not only the Slovak population, but above all the Austrian and Hungarian people, we must do everything we can to prevent the deployment and thus the activation of this reactor. [[Abg. Wabl: What does "all" mean?]] Everything is, of course, only international pressure in the case of national autonomy, which Austria alone cannot exercise, but must enforce together with European alliance partners. I would therefore like to thank the Federal Government, especially the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, for having been in close contact with European Heads of Government and with European Foreign Ministers over the last few weeks, but above all during the last few days and hours, in order to gain their support for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10521	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10543	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Perhaps even tomorrow, perhaps the day after tomorrow, 40 years of fear start – fear, which may not last 40 years, because the certainty has previously occurred, perhaps the certainty of the super-GAU addressed by Mrs Kallat. And you can have fear for two reasons: Fear of ignorance – one still has a spark of hope that it may not get so bad – or fear knowing the situation, because of the fact that there are shortcomings. Federal Chancellor! You know that this nuclear power plant is a time bomb with a very short stop time. At present, it looks like you were just before commissioning. The Mochovce nuclear power plant belongs to 51 percent of the Electricité de France, i.e. the partner we now have at STEWEAG, a joint venture, and the other part belongs to the Slovak electricity company. We know that the business that goes over the stage is a business of western companies. Let me say a few things about it. Since the beginning of the 1990s, electricity demand in Slovakia has fallen by about 18.5 percent. That is to say, there is no real need – Mr Oberhaidinger has already said it. It's about foreign exchange, he said. Is it really? I think this is different if you know that 60 per cent of electricity production is intended for export and only needs to be delivered for repayments to Western companies which have finally enabled this establishment. It's a benefit for the western atomic lobby. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! You know that there has been a discrediting of experts: Professor Kromp, by Mr Meyer, who was a recognized specialist in times when the GDR was still there, and who, at the time, also informed this regime of his safety concerns there and there and is certainly professionally competent. It has been hindered to this day's view – this is also to be seen in an APA report – that is to say, the insight into those values that would give an insight into the safety of the nuclear reactor. There is a huge danger potential. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Parliament's motion for a resolution was adopted with only ten votes against. That is to say, very, very many friends of the nuclear power, the nuclear energy, voted in favour of this resolution because they know what shortcomings exist in this regard. Federal Chancellor! The fact that you are ultimately limited to dealing with your colleague Me#iar at the diplomatic level and to hope that he will eventually come to your attention surprises me again and again. I should like to remind you of what happened to this safety report after the first "Walkdown": He was in the Federal Chancellor's Office for two years and was not published because all the originals of the Slovak Government did not benefit from anything and their opinion, which was to take place before the publication, was not obtained. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Me#iar, said that only Slovak energy needs should be met and that the energy problem of his country should be solved; of course, nothing would be done at the expense of others. – That’s exactly what it is: It's at the expense of others. It is a problem with the Bubble Condenser, i.e. the system for reducing pressure in the crash. There is currently a PHARE project with a 1:1 test, which will be completed at the earliest in 1999 and will be aware of how this Bubble Condenser is ordered. We know that there has been a year-long construction interruption, without any intrusion. We know that no maintenance has been carried out, and we know that there are such shortcomings. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, introduce some technical aspects. I think it is essential not only to talk about general security shortcomings, but: What's this about? – It is about the core of this power plant, it is about the, as I mean, inadmissible boiler load through the neutron input on the boiler wall, which in turn leads to a sprinkling. It is the special feature of this structure, this cigar-shaped design, that the neutron shot is a much more pronounced one, and that the material, which already does not have the best strength values, is very, very badly damaged. We know that nuclear construction is without blind elements. We know that the core has been built for eight years and is to be used in this form. We know that 30 percent of the damage will already be achieved in about a year and will be expected to be about 70 percent in five years. Speaking of this fact, the Slovaks explained to us that a light treatment – by the way an emergency procedure, heat treatment to change the structure, reduce tensions, increase the required toughness and reduce sprinkling – will be taken up before commissioning. This is a measure which is normally applied to old, ancient reactors in the East, in order to extend their service life. This is what we know today, and it is obvious that, as far as possible, there will be an increase in the cost of restructuring. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! It is, as I believe, too little, at the level you have taken up, namely at the diplomatic level and by writing letters, to come to a satisfactory solution. It would be desirable, Mr Bundeskanzler, for you to finally submit in a catalogue of measures what international and international possibilities we have. Which of these options will be: Are you gradually taking action in order to achieve the goal of not letting this power plant into operation with its safety risk? Mr Bundeskanzler, you will, of course, receive our support if you take all the measures that are possible, up to retortion measures. Of course, we know that the business of the West is to be done, and financial support must be given. I have already announced in a press release that this figure is 1 billion dollars. The business is here in the West, so the West is also supposed to consider how to deal with this problem. I would rather, with you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to lose bravely than ultimately to practice bold restraint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10618	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10639	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that the time is appropriate for words similar to those found by Mr Hofmann. Mr Hofmann, it is true that there has, of course, been some failure in the anti-atomic policy of Austria. That is not a question, in my view. It is only now not the time to talk about these failures, because the putting on of international mechanisms – if they exist, which is now immediately disputed – would be known to take longer and the commissioning or at least the activation of the Mochovce AKW is imminent. Therefore, the subject today can only be the following: What can we do as an Austrian representative in order to strengthen the Federal Government in such a way that it can achieve what is in the interests of both the Slovak population and the Austrian population in a friendly and friendly way based on our friendly relationship. And that is that the power station Mochovce is not activated! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear that the Mochovce nuclear power station is, in fact, only an example – although it is an up-to-date but just an example – of a problem which has existed for years and which is simply underestimated in Western European countries: regardless of the fact that the technology is another one there. But it is true that the basic problem is massively underestimated. I believe that today our activity here in the House should be aimed at ensuring that we can achieve an open and prompt information policy on the Mochovce nuclear power station from the Slovak side, both by the government and by the legislative authorities there, the elected representatives of the Slovak people. This has not yet been done to the extent that this would be necessary and how it would correspond to the friendly relationships. This should be agreed by this House today, demanded, asked for, so that it will not be forgotten that this problem can only be solved on a friendly, friendly basis. It is necessary to make it clear here that all the experts, both international and Slovak experts, have to put themselves on a table to discuss all the problems, newly established or newly discovered difficulties that have already been discussed. comprehensible documents must be placed on the table in order to be able to understand what has already been heard. In particular, it is urgent to call on the Slovak Government to refrain from all measures to create the facts that have been fulfilled. I believe that this would also be a point which could be adopted today as part of a resolution in this House. It could be made clear that we are really of this opinion and not only here in the Chamber of Speakers of each political group are proposed individual measures or the Federal Government is given good advice. We should explain what we expect as elected representatives of the Slovak government as well as of the elected representatives of the Slovak people. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This request has been in place for a long time!]] We have a five-party request, that's right. It has existed since July last year, targeting in particular at EU level. In the present situation, however, no one is going to argue that it would be useful to make it clear, in a reasonable tone, but in an equally clear language, by the National Council, what we believe is stated in this matter. I believe that this could be an aid, and perhaps there will be such a common proposal until the end of this debate. The Liberals will, in any case, be addressing the other political groups with such a proposal. I would just like to highlight a political dimension to be heard in the German Chancellor's reply: It is necessary to grant other countries the operation of nuclear power plants, because in the end there is also such in Western European countries, and we must accept that sovereignty goes so far that we can also put an nuclear power station into operation. – I claim from this point of view that it is not a matter of course to allow other countries in our environment – whether they are on the western or eastern side of Austria – to put nuclear power stations into operation. Because the danger arising from these reactors is simple and simply not insurable. We all know that the international agreements aim to ensure that this insurance is not necessary. We know that, in fact, the nuclear liability has also been made so lax because there is a pressure from those large, primary Western companies that simply reject a sharp nuclear liability because they would not then be able to build nuclear power stations. If they were liable for the damage caused by nuclear power plants, they would not be able to do so economically. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary no longer to postpone the Atomic Liability Act, but also on the Austrian side, finally, to make a nuclear liability law, which has a model character for the European Union and also our neighbours. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also within the framework of the European Union – and I stress, also within the framework of the European Union – and the candidate countries on the east, that it is finally necessary to stop creating energy supply burdens that will still affect future generations. That's not a question at all! But no one is willing to find a clear word in the framework of the European Union that sustainability must be based not only on political speeches but also on the legal framework. If sustainability is increasingly gaining contour in the Maastricht Treaty not only in the Austrian National Environmental Plan, but also, as we hear it, it would be necessary to clarify that the peaceful use of nuclear energy in Europe should not be further driven forward. Mr Schweitzer! Now comes back to the motion for a resolution which we decided last July as a five-party motion. All five political groups here in this House have decided that the EURATOM Treaty should be amended in such a way that, as it is still formulated, it is no longer intended to deal with the construction of a powerful, economic-oriented nuclear energy in Europe, but that EURATOM should resort to monitoring and monitoring those burdens which are now in place from the security sector, so, in truth, to a targeted exit. The foundations of the European Union regarding the EURATOM Treaty still say that nuclear energy is needed. And that's to change. I hope that next time in the European Parliament there will be such a request that there will be approval of all the political groups and representatives of the Austrian parties – and it is not the same as has happened before that a political group will not be involved. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a difficulty: On the one hand, we keep telling the Eastern European states that they should use alternatives, on the other hand, we have no or very few examples of alternative energy use in Austria. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that not only is the power-heat-coupling potential in Slovakia large, but it is also large in Austria. But there are no framework conditions in Austria that suggest the use of this potential. Look at the ElWOG, which is currently being negotiated. There, too, renewable energy sources are in fact being mistreated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] As long as we in Austria do not have the courage to make Mr Head of Parliament an electrical organization law that takes account not only of the demands of the national leaders but also of the requirements of the National Environmental Plan and, in particular, of those ceilings which we repeatedly express and demand in the energy debates, as long as we have a lower credibility over other countries that we recommend. We need it, but we don't do it to the extent that it would be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, once again: Today, it is not the time to debate the failure of the Federal Government in the anti-atomic policy, but it is the time to clarify what the Austrian People's Office expects from Slovakia and from the representatives responsible there. The concern that has already been expressed by the Federal Chancellor today will be to measure, in their seriousness, the extent to which the five-party resolution proposal, which we have decided here in the House, will be followed in the future, too, at European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10692	The next speaker is Mrs Langthaler. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10713	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller, I think it is appropriate in this debate here in Parliament today to take stock of why we are in the current situation with Mochovce, and to do so we need to look back a little bit. I do not want to say that the Federal Government has been doing activities for a number of days, that it is visible and audible that from the head of this government, that is, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, up to a variety of ministers, it is also trying to act quickly at European level. But it's a fire brigade action, and it's coming very late. Federal Chancellor! It was your predecessor, then Chancellor Vranitzky, who signed at Stephansplatz and thus demonstrated that from the head of the Republic a large number of people are beginning to come against this nuclear power station. I still remember the picture, because it was the cover image of the "Kronen-Zeitung" and many other newspapers at that time, when we fought against the loan from the EBRD and a campaign for objection was carried out. 1.2 million people signed at the time. - But then nothing came. There was a "Walkdown report" under the direction of Professor Kromp, and this one, Mr. Federal Chancellor, was already before the Federal Government in November 1995. November 1995! It was not until August 1997 that the report was published, and the time period between 1995 and 1997 was at least not used by the Federal Government from our point of view – at that time we tried to investigate – for trying to find alliance partners at European level. The Mochovce problem is not a singular bilateral problem between Austria and Slovakia, but it is a problem that has a greater dimension. If Austria is serious about achieving a nuclear-free central Europe, and it is not only about achieving certain safety standards – there is no safe nuclear power plant – even if this debate seems to be about safety standards, then it must also be said that Austria cannot achieve alone but must negotiate with the neighbouring countries. It is also about Hungary, the Czech Republic, but it is also about Germany, Switzerland and Slovenia. This is a problem in a dimension where Austria alone will not do much. And here we are in this current discussion. Federal Chancellor! I would also like to remind you that the Greens were on 16 June. In April, an urgent question was put to the nuclear community. We have said after the speech of the Federal Minister that, according to our information, Mochovce should go to the network in June. – Read Mrs. Minister's reply of 16. ==References== It has rejected this outrageously and has said that this information is due to a printed error that happened in the German Bundestag, and that this information is completely incorrect. That means, until the 16th century. It was not taken very seriously by the Federal Government in April. [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: That was quite later!]] Federal Chancellor! At the time of the debate in Parliament, we also said that the Me#iar government was planning to start the activation process from June, which was possible by less research, and that there is really fire on the roof. What I blame the Federal Government and you as the competent Federal Chancellor is that you have let go of the time between 1995 and the beginning of 1998. It would have been necessary to seek alliance partners and to find concrete financial escape aid... – When to have [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: In September 1997 we started!]] You started? [[Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate: In September 1997! You know, I told you today!]] Yes, Federal Chancellor, September 1997! The first "Walkdown report" by Professor Kromp was completed in November 1995! I quote you from the summary of page 9, where it says: Even if you consider some necessary adjustments and safety improvements, the Mochovce AKW will not meet the Western standards due to this design. It would also not comply with the latest Russian rules. - Quote. This is a quote from a report which, as has been said, was completed in 1995 and published in August 1997. I believe you have started initiatives since November 1997, but it was very, very late at that time. In the meantime, the Slovak government has built up this power plant with Škoda and with French and German credits. There has been no use of valuable time. And in view of this, it is already a bit unbelievable if Austria now stands off from the head of the government and is very outraged about the process. I am also outraged at how to deal with the fears of a neighbouring country. But this outrage for the Slovaks is not very credible. This starts with the fact that on the one hand Austria is already doing business with the EdF, when it is using it, but on the other hand is making a big theater on the question of Mochovce. There is a great problem of credibility, Mr Bundeskanzler! We also offer the Slovak Government many opportunities to say that Austria's defence is based on domestic political contexts, on the pressure of a concerned public and a large medium. Federal Chancellor! There is a need to look back and say that valuable time has not been useful. Federal Chancellor! However, I do not agree with today's answer to our urgent question. They have meant that the international possibilities and, above all, the nuclear safety agreements ratified by Austria and Slovakia are not an instrument to act now. - I mean that's not true. I would also like to quote what the Foreign Policy Committee of this House has found in the ratification of this Convention. ==References== July 1997! To this end, one finds that literal quote: Neighbourhood countries such as Austria, which themselves do not operate nuclear power plants, have additional possibilities of information and participation through the agreement. - Quote. In my view, there are some articles in this Convention that Austria should have used for a long time and at least now have to use. For example, Articles 11 and 19 of this Convention state that the country operating an engine must provide sufficient qualified personnel and technical support for the operation of the installations. If one knows that, for example, the main Russian constructor is no longer available to the necessary extent, then this is a point in which one can say that the Slovaks violate this Convention. Or Article 14 states that comprehensive systematic safety assessments must be carried out prior to commissioning. – This also does not apply to Mochovce. There are still articles 16, 17 and 18, unfortunately I do not have the time to do so in detail. However, from my point of view, it would be possible to use this international agreement, which is legally binding, to initiate a corresponding infringement procedure and to do more on a legal and legal basis. Finally, I would like to refer to the question of financial aid. Mr Oberhaidinger meant that at that time there was an offer from Austria of 3 billion Schilling. I would like to recall the following in order to give the truth the honor: At the time, the Federal Government offered a compensation business at Bohunice, to supply a replacement current of 3 billion schilling. Shortly before the final negotiations for this spare supply offer, the then Director-General Fremuth in Prussia said at a press conference that Austria would not be able to carry out this agreement because we did not have so much electricity. - That's where it's put. I do not know about serious changeover aid, serious financial offers in a significant amount. I would be grateful to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you would tell us what specific financial offerings there were to Slovakia, so that there was a real chance of investing in other technologies, such as a gas steam power plant. What financial alternative has been offered? The money is there, we see it in other areas that have already been quoted today. For example, tanks in this country seem to have money at their disposal, which is 11 billion schilling. These 11 billion schillings would be much better invested in a real security threat scenario. It would have been better to invest this 11 billion schilling in a safe technology, such as a gas steam power plant, in Slovakia instead of in tanks. Federal Chancellor! It is necessary to make serious financial offers, because hopefully you will get a little closer to the goal of a nuclear-free Central Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10783	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10804	We in Austria, for almost decades in particular, have had the dubious pleasure of being able to participate in the discussions on the experts and expertise on the sensibility of nuclear energy to the safety of nuclear power plants. In the 1970s I was also one of those who opposed nuclear energy in principle and also took action to ensure that the Ztentendorf nuclear power station was not put into operation. [[Abg. Wabl: You were against the tanks at that time too!]] I therefore have a very simple attitude to this debate today: I never think nuclear energy is 100% safe, and I do not think that it can be financed in particular. [[Abg. Wabl: Cap! You voted against the tanks at the time!]] If one considers how much a realistic electricity price would be, if one still calculates the storage of the nuclear waste, if one still takes into account the many indirect support that exists, then one has to say that this energy form is not an energy form that is cost-effective and therefore fundamentally questionable from this side. [[Abg. Wabl: Tank! You voted against the tanks at the time!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Head.]] It is important to put this forward once so that it is clearly stated what it is all about. Now to Slovakia: Slovakia is located in a transitional company. By being involved in a communist system, she had to go along with it at the time and has not only set herself on a wrong energy source, but also on a technology corresponding to the system to this form of energy. Now it has become a transitional society, and now one could say, well, the main opponent is actually Slovakia. – However, I claim that the main opponent is not Slovakia, and that is not because the example of Mochovce is supposed to be something like a renaissance of nuclear energy. In the example of Mochovce, Western nuclear companies want to get into the big business. The discussion on the issue of east-cars could then be brought to the West-cars – saying: to the safe, non-handling, meaningful nuclear power stations – and to think that the East-cars should be rebuilt in this way. This is how we could escape from the debate on whether nuclear energy makes sense at all. Therefore, the opponent who has Austria is not Slovakia. Greenpeace and many others who are involved in it want to use Austria as a lever, in principle to fight against these renaissance efforts of the international, especially the Western atomic lobby. However, the question arises whether Austria can also be this lever and whether the opposition goes far beyond the problem, whether or not Me#iar is interested in nuclear energy or not, or the bureaucracy that is allied with him or with someone else. This is the central question when discussing the scope for action of the Austrian Federal Government or of the Austrian Parliament, which hopefully stands uniformly behind the Federal Government, and which wants to fight for it – and for the direct security interest also wants to fight for it because Mochovce is right behind the border. [[Abg. Wabl: But just behind the Federal Government to cut off the escape path!]] However, there are also fundamental questions that go far beyond Mochovce. And the definition of the scope for action is crucial if one wants to judge serially what everything has been included since the famous poster action, in which I was there and signed at Stephansplatz, to this day. Of course, one can now produce and say that one had the seventh Commission, the 18. Step and seam from left and right up, and the credit line and the bank and so on can change. This system of counterexperts is pious, positive and supportive. Erhard Eppler, Robert Jungk and Co then advertised in the movement for this principle of discussion, because at the same time the proponents of the Atom Lobby appeared with a white coat and the expert claim on television and in newspapers. That is also good, but it is not possible to steal from responsibility. We should say very soberly what areas of action Austria has in order not to create fears, and make sure that people make demands on politics, on all, even on the Greens, on the Liberals, on all those who are inside, which we have not finally been able to fulfil in this context, although we wanted to fulfil them. There can be no one in the Federal Government – not one! – which, if something actually happens, negligently deals with the fact that something has happened 150 kilometres from here because it is also included in this disaster zone as a directly affected person. Once again, the opposition strategy goes empty, because at least 100 percent of this is refutable that no one can really be interested in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore also the task of Parliament and of today's debate to stand behind the Federal Government with all clarity and clarity, to do everything possible to ensure that not only Slovakia, but also those Western companies, who want to make the big deal with the conversion of all East German cars, take account of the dangers. This can best be achieved in the alliance and as an EU member with other EU Member States, but they still need to be won, as there is also Western atomic lobby there. You can't forget all of this. There are many EU Member States, which are also interwoven, where nuclear energy is a central element, producing nuclear power, perhaps coming to Austria. We need to build this alliance structure, which unfortunately also needs a medium and long-term strategy. Nevertheless, I find what has been done so far, yet I find that what the Federal Government has done in this area so far – in contrast to the opposition opinion – is sufficient. We may thus be able to achieve that Slovakia does not immediately put the Mochovce nuclear power station into operation. I hope that we will get through with this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10898	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e10923	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Petrovic rightly pointed out that there can be no nuclear safety. Mr Cap has also rightly and rightly pointed out that there is no cost-effectiveness in the use of nuclear energy for electricity generation. We in Austria have gained this knowledge quite late, but, as I mean, in time, on the one hand, in order to protect our people, on the other hand, we have gained a great deal of credibility internationally – in view of a completed nuclear power plant, which has not been put into operation at the last second. We have our Nuclear Locking Act, we have defined in Austria the objective of wanting to achieve a nuclear-free central Europe in the medium term in the long term. However, many other countries still adhere to their nuclear power strategy. Therefore, our strategy to try to change the attitude of the other countries or to change their attitude can only be a long-term strategy. This means drilling very hard boards in international diplomacy, in international politics. However, our federal government is in a good way to bring about an international change of consciousness. [[Abg. Wabl: Mrs Gredler is different!]] There are also short-term successes in individual projects in parallel to this long-term strategy. This has nothing to do with a change in the long-term policy, but there is a success in individual projects. For example, at Bohunice, the Slovaks were able to get the promise to shut down the Bohunice AKW when – unfortunately with the addition "if" – – I know – Mochovce goes into operation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "ZiB 2!"]] We have managed to stop financing through the EBRD and thus in a financing institution located in the EU, in an area where we are sure that we will continue to be able to influence other countries' energy policies in the future. That was successful. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that the Mochovce nuclear power station was still completed, with other funding. - Good. We will find it difficult to get hold of all these financial instruments, which exist internationally, about Austrian policy. But it was a clear international signal that this form of financing could be prevented within the EU. I believe that Mochovce is currently becoming a prestige project, apart from Mr Cap's surely correct assessment of the Western industry, the economy and the interests behind it. But it seems to have also become a prestige project of Slovak politics, a demonstration of the sovereignty of this state. Mr Hofmann! I do not know how to react otherwise than with diplomacy and with the instruments of international policy. I believe that another strategy or possibility to put the gun on the chest in the truest sense of the word will probably not be able to exist than the use of diplomatic and international political instruments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann.]] There is the saying: God gives me the wisdom to recognize things that I cannot change, and he also gives me the ability to take note of them. – Now I do not understand in this context the turning "to take note of" namely to turn away and let it happen. But the saying already has something true in itself, even in view of this problem. I would, in this case, reinterpret this idea into a change of strategy, i.e. that one cannot operate with a long-term strategy if one wants to change the policies of other countries in the long term. If one sees that, especially in this individual case, one does not aim at this because the problem exists now and today, then I think it is not only useful, but just too necessary, to try to increase the safety, in this particular case in the Mochovce AKW, to prevent activation and to enforce further security measures. This can only be the only real, reasonable policy in this particular case. And right there, the actions of our Federal Government also start. Mr Langthaler mentioned the report on the first "Walkdown" in Mochovce earlier, but he did not know that the second report is now very likely to prove progress in terms of safety in this reactor. However, there has been another serious problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: This is not new! Since 1994 this problem has been...!]] However, there have been many other problems, which the report very well confirms, have now been solved. And this shows that there is a certain willingness to correct these security failures. I believe or interpret at least the attitude of the Slovaks in such a way that this problem has either been underestimated or – for whatever reason – has not been fixed so far. I believe, however, that in view of the fact that they have already invested a great deal of money in solving other shortcomings, we can derive from the willingness to solve this problem as well. I believe, from this Parliament and from all the parties today, that the clear and clear signal is that Austria has a massive existential interest, including within the meaning of our people, that the necessary measures are still to be put in place by the Slovak Government today or that an activation of this nuclear power station should not be decided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schweitzer! You can look for hair in the soup as an opposition politician on this subject, or you can criticize this or that. The fact is – this is God’s thanks to those who have been attested and determined to the problem, such as Mr Barmüller, for example: Today is not the day to discuss long-term strategies in dealing with international policies with nuclear energy, but today it is about sending out a clear signal that this Mochovce power plant and the fuel rods must not be activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11005	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11026	Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The representatives of the government parties already demand several times today: Come out, forget all the failures that have occurred in recent years, and put yourself behind the government! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Dear friend Karlheinz Kopf! It really is not that simple, especially if we know that the decision in Slovakia has already been taken, that there is already a positive decision on the activation of the fuel rods in Mochovce. Why this decision has been made is why Austria has not been able to prevent this decision from being taken, it must be discussed. It is important to discuss why we have restricted our scope for action in recent years. There have been various and dubious voting – also from your party! – from which it could be deduced that Austria does not really want to prevent nuclear power plants and is interested in the enforcement of a nuclear-free central Europe. For example, I only recall the voting behaviour in the European Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why have we restricted our credibility with such decisions and, in part, played out? German Chancellor Klima complained today in the speech of Mr Moser that we should not offer a picture of fragmentation and disintegration. Federal Chancellor! A question you will already have to please: Why is this report so often addressed today located in the Federal Chancellery for two years – a report that has demonstrated blatant design errors that have revealed a total of 156 serious defects? . You have kept these for at least two years so safe that nothing of them has come to the public and we have not been able to discuss together how to address this danger, how the negotiations with Slovakia can be conducted. For two years we have not talked about this, and today – at once – the opposition must also be behind a government that for two years has not informed us what danger potential is developing near the border. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not the consistent continuation of an Austrian anti-atomic policy, which we believed to have been following the decision of the Nuclear Locking Act. At that time, I actually believed: Now there is a consistent Austrian antiatomic line. Karlheinz! It was your party, however, who then tried to give up the whole thing. If this accident had not happened, we would have held this discussion for even longer, and there would have been a change in this line, these laws. I'm more convinced of that today than ever. [[Abg. Head: What are you doing, Karl?]] Mr. Federal Chancellor's Climate! We have not heard from you today what has actually been achieved in the course of years of bilateral activities to reduce the potential for danger. We have not heard anything specific about energy-efficient cooperation. Medial has come over a lot, but actual energy-efficient cooperation has not been achieved until now. That's the situation we're facing today. I can remember very well, Mr Head, we have negotiated a five-party request together, and there has always been a call, especially from colleague Aumayr, which has said: Are we committed to the consent of Austria to open accession negotiations with the European Union of these states to binding exit concepts? This request was even rejected by the Greens, and I therefore give you the opportunity to reconsider this request today and perhaps agree to it. You have suddenly called for this with your speakers at your special meeting. Mr Moser has come out, has made exactly the same request that Mr Aumayr had already made, only then did Mr Petrovic not agree, and then she has asked for the same thing at once. Neither have you remained entirely on the line you pretended to keep so clear. That is why you have the opportunity to vote in favour of a resolution today. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a motion for a resolution which gives the government scope for action and a position to which the government could actually enforce itself in the course of a continuation of the Austrian anti-CFC line.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11128	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Gredler has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11152	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to replicate on the Chancellor, but now he's not in the hall right now. He must not be surprised when the problem of nuclear power plants is debated at the border with Austria. If one does not try to reach a consensus with the parliamentarians on this issue and take advantage of the possibilities, then one must not be surprised if some criticism of the Federal Government is then presented in the context of urgent questions. That is, I think, a condition that could be solved very easily. One could, for example, install a Council for Energy or for Atomic Energy, in which the overall problem would be dealt with, namely not only nuclear energy problems, but also other areas that exist, such as an atomic-free zone in defence or even nuclear waste occurring in medicine. It would then be possible to reach a common approach in agreement with the representatives of the parties in Parliament and other experts. As long as there is no insight into this matter within the Federal Government, you will probably have to get used to the fact that accusations are coming, which are very unpleasant and question your activity, although I must say that Mochovce has suddenly doubled the mode of action. It has indeed been – I must say – a certain commitment in recent times. I can tell you that we not only have Mochovce as a problem, but that problems with Castor transports are also happening in Europe at the moment. This reminds me of the following situation: ==References== I tabled a request to the European Parliament in May 1996 dealing with the problem of nuclear transport, namely Castor transport across Europe, and concerns about safety. In response, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European " whereas the recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency aim to ensure the safety function of the transport containers, i.e. that, in the event of a possible transport accident, no significant proportions of radioactive substances are released, no increased radiation exposure occurs in the environment, the safe heat discharge of radioactive content is ensured, and the radioactive substances remain in a subcritical state." Then it becomes very polemic because they attack the demonstrators who have very massively opposed these transports in the Federal Republic. Granted, violence has been applied, I certainly do not want to defend it, but only to speak Polish to demonstrators is questionable. Then, under point 1: "Welcomes that the first radioactive glass cokill transport to the Gorleben intermediate warehouse was carried out using the most stringent safety measures". Obviously there was a state of disinformation there. That is why I am very pleased when Mrs Rauch-Kallat and the honourable Member on the European Parliament have now held discussions in Slovakia so that we can count on the votes of the EPP Members who come from Austria. Lord King! I can remind myself that there have been votes – there we two were already gone – in which it should be decided that we should get out of nuclear energy. There were five votes missing in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, almost everyone – except a member of your group – was against it, only Austrians. I am now very happy because I am sure that a castor proposal will be tabled at the next plenary session of the European Parliament, and I am sure that a Mochovce proposal will come. I am very glad that Mrs Flemming is now not going to leave the Austrian line for the EPP Members. There are other problems. Mrs Bjerregaard not only notes the worrying state of Mochovce, but also notes that nuclear reactors of the type, such as Chernobyl, are in Bulgaria and Lithuania and therefore their safety is to be increased. It is therefore necessary to consider exchanging essential elements so to speak, so to speak, in order to increase safety. This means, in turn, that there will be an extension of the life of these dangerous nuclear power plants. Now I am in doubt, because I have noticed that Mochovce has prevented the financing of an improved variant, which was very correct, but was still built. I was firmly convinced that it was also the right way. But now there is the state that the technology is no longer right, that a mixed culture between Russian and Western constructions actually increases the questionability and we are forced to use possible EU funds to increase safety and therefore lead to an extension of the risk. I do not like to live in an insecure environment, but in this respect one should reach a national consensus. We need to be aware of whether we want to have increased security and an extended life of these uncertain technologies that surround us or not. I have not yet become final, I must say, but just as we have done it now, this has obviously not led to the Slovaks being expelled from the plan not to put Mochovce into operation. That is why, I believe, we should come together to form a new form of dialogue, and that is because European-wide liability schemes are missing – not only in Austria, but in Europe. Now you see that at the castor transports. Not everyone who has been discredited wants to take responsibility. No human has the courage to say: Okay, there have been mistakes, we admit them, and we will ensure that not only the errors no longer happen, but that one examines whether there have actually been dangerous moments for people who have even been involved in filling into these castor containers. There you have to research in France as well as in Germany. For the police, it can't be very pleasant to know in retrospect that what they had to defend may have radiated radioactivity that could endanger their health. These are things that I believe we should have an aggressive dialogue in Europe. We should not be afraid to accept it against Mr Kohl and others. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] One thing's going off to me: There is actually no emergency strategy – I come to Mr Cap, who has been drawn up. Do you know an evacuation plan for Vienna? What if anything happens in Mochovce? . I only know that there is a direct measurement and therefore we do not depend on the messages of the Slovaks. What happens then? Should I go to you and we'll discuss what we're doing? Or what else do you do? That's a serious thing. There is nothing, and the population in the area was not informed! If you say that we should develop common strategies, then that must definitely be those strategies that must be applied when an emergency occurs. To say: We will not deal with this until it is necessary! is bad, because then it is probably too late; you will admit it to me. I would therefore ask that we work together in a national consensus and that the government once jumps over its shadow and is ready to develop strategies together with the opposition parties – for the benefit of the environment, for the benefit of the border regions and for the benefit of the Federal Capital.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11237	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11258	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor today called for this House, but also for the opposition to be closed. Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Cap conspired the old times when he was still marching against Zwentendorf. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Page by side!]] At that time he was also marching against the tanks. He's already left this line. But, ladies and gentlemen, one thing Mr Cap said quite correctly: The main opponent is not the Slovak government, but we are in a Europe in which there are obviously fundamentalists in some governments: In France, in Paris, Monsieur Chirac, who still believes that nuclear energy is an energy form that can be used. billions have been invested in this technology over the last decades. The fundamentalist Helmut Kohl continues to sit in Bonn and believes that nuclear energy should be supported. The Austrian Federal Government, the Austrian opposition and the Greens have been very likely to stop the EBRD credit. But, of course, the government in Paris and the government in Bonn have agreed to take over export guarantees for Framatome and Siemens. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a strange social game in progress. All politics is more or less vilified and reduced in a certain way. Privatization is being driven forward, and then suddenly there is a cry, where the powerful politicians are, who stop the earners without morals, without shame, without regard to safety, without regard for people, without regard for health. Ladies and gentlemen! Money doesn't know morals, but politics should know them. Only when politics no longer has power does it begin to despair in order to beat and act. Ladies and gentlemen! The press and the APA can be seen that Austria offers a financial package for flawshooting in Mochovce. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a bankruptcy statement. We offer 600 million schilling to make a reactor more secure, even though we know that Western donors are, of course, investing European Western technologies to make money. And the "great" Austria, which finds powerful Austria, we should join in to offer the big money Paroli and "offer" 600 million schilling to produce safe power plants, safer power plants. Ladies and gentlemen! We must hear from Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel that the environmentalists are fundamentalists. The fundamentalists sit elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen! This federal government launched an anti-CFC policy in 1990, which it has never consistently maintained. For if it had been fundamentally opposed to nuclear power plants, then the Nuclear Liability Act would be a central area within the EU. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Of course, for the EU Presidency, a central requirement would be that this point be discussed next to the eco-tax. – Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have money want returns. It is indifferent to them whether this is done in moral or immoral ways. But politics is called on to set limits, install laws and help them break through. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to support Mr Klima. I fully support him when he fights for the nuclear liability law across Europe. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: For a more stringent!]] But that's why I'm behind him so he doesn't have a escape route anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11315	Mr Dr. Müller. Rest of the time of your club: 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11333	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! After having more than nine minutes of speaking time, I allow myself to make a small preliminary remark. Our colleague, Mr Altlandeshuptmann-Representative Reichhold, has at the outset disturbed colleagues in his speech and meant that Oberhaidinger should apologize to Trenk. I do not want to judge whether this is necessary; only Oberhaidinger would have been very difficult, Mr Reichhold, because Trenk has not yet been praised. So we should wait for Trenk to come. His fishing observation has already been postponed last time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He also insulted him when he was not praised! He also insulted and insulted him when he was not praised!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - But he's not here. Oberhaidinger can, even if he wanted to, not apologize to Trenk at all, and it would be interesting why Mr Trenk is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's under your dignity!]] But Mr Reichhold still has the opportunity to explain this. He's on the list of speakers. I just mentioned this because he disturbed Oberhaidinger massively in his speech, as it is his way again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the topic of Mochovce. The Greens... – See [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The bad conscience really looks out of your eyes!]] You're so clear, Mr. Graf? Do I have a bad conscience, or shouldn't that be your group? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You know you're wrong!]] Today, the Greens have re-enacted or activated the nuclear theme on the example of Mochovce – always based on the belief that we should address the political failure of the Federal Government. Mr Barmüller, in his very much valued material way, pointed out the way we should go, namely to present ourselves together convincingly. I believe that the Chancellor has proved very well in his reply today that the question of the Greens – a repeated question on similar topics – was again extremely essential and, in fact, one of my incomprehensible minor hacks. I believe that the way of the Federal Government is realistic and correct and that the Federal Chancellor is right when he warns of radicalization. I would like to address this later. When you read press releases of the last few days in Austria, you will find the most diverse opinions on the subject of Mochovce, and there are also the most diverse good advices. From the newspaper "Die Presse" comes the advice not to threaten the Slovaks and not to hit this line. ==References====External links== In May 1998, a representative in the Slovak Parliament asked whether the German Chancellor climate confused Slovakia with an Austro-Austrian state. That is exactly how carefully we must act on this question if we are to achieve something positive. There is no question that national emotions can be played very easily. We have seen this again at the election in Hungary, in which some right-wing parties have scored with the response of such emotions. Nothing is easier for Me#iar than an unkind Austrian attitude, which is again documented by the request of the Greens today, to show, to use in the election campaign and thus possibly to score again victorious in September. I believe that we should not all want Me#iarxxx col Wa to remain on the row, especially when I think of a resolution by the Slovak Parliament that the Environment Committee and other parties are giving an approach to a more sensible policy. These have also recognized that it is completely uneconomic to put Mochovce into operation. But this is certainly a prestige project for Me#iar, and he wants to go through it with all his means to prove his standing qualities and win the choice. This is also found in the article by Hans Rauscher on 26. May in the "standard" very clearly out, and you should look at that. I do not want to address specific opinions such as those of Mr Leitgeb during the "all week" who thought that Mochovce was certainly not to compare with Chernobyl, and Greenpeace and Global 2000 only showed haxel bites. – That’s an opinion you shouldn’t let go. Mr Hofmann and Mr Schweitzer have also once again stated possible sins of the ÖVP in the European Parliament. You do so with every word message – perhaps right, but if you sit in the glass house, you should be careful with stones. [[Call to the liberals: Right!]] I have a report that has also been passed through the newspapers that a Mr. Prinzhorn – I suppose this is another FPÖ member – wants to build his own power line to the Bayern power plants to buy cheaper electricity. I suspect that the Bayern power plants also have nuclear power in their lines. So you should have a clear discussion with Mr Prinzhorn in this regard. That would, I believe, be very necessary. But I didn't hear Prinzhorn react to it, so whether he's building his line or not. [[Abg. Aumayr: Prinzhorn?]] Mr Prinzhorn, Mrs Aumayr! [[Abg. Aumayr: How was that in Styria?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I notice in the discussion is that something is constantly being torn out of the context, that what is not particularly useful in one's own argumentation is being dropped under the table – that Barmüller certainly did not do – but Wabl, of course, also cited the examples of Chirac and Kohl. But if he was quoting Chirac, he could have also quoted Jospin or the green Minister for the Environment who changed the course. In Germany too, it would be hoped that there will be a political change in course, because there is clear evidence from the SPD of an exit scenario. That would make sense. Especially on television, Mr Müller, the environmental spokesman of the SPD, reaffirmed this demand again, and Schröder also said that. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what our German Chancellor climate meant today should take a little more to heart, not to break away unnecessary discussions again and again, but to continue on the way of the Federal Government, and to work together to bring about a broad change of consciousness on the international parquet – I believe that we are relatively successful, even in the face of the recent resolution of the EU Parliament – as there was an important field of activity – in the population of our eastern neighbours. This is certainly also about financial assistance, but not only.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11455	Mr Schrefel has also been mentioned on the floor. Rest of the time of your club: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11477	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The horror scenario of Chernobyl from ten years ago must not be repeated, and Mochovce's scrap reactor must not go into operation. The health and safety of the population must be a priority. According to the current expert intermediate report, Mochovce's safety is not guaranteed in the medium term. At the time of the operation of Austria, an expert committee has shown that Mochovce is very uncertain, and the Austrian anti-atom movement is increasingly finding allies in the EU who share our concerns. In recent years, the National Council has expressed its voice in several resolutions in favour of an active policy on the rejection of nuclear energy use and has called for measures to implement this objective. In particular, the five-party resolution requests for resolution of 9. ==References== In June 1997, the Federal Government's commitment in its government agreement to continue this policy. The objectives of Austrian policy regarding the exit from energy use of nuclear energy include, in particular, the introduction of the Austrian position into the European Union and the preparation of the EU's eastern enlargement. On Monday, Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel introduced the European Union to the issue of the safety of the Slovak nuclear power plant Mochovce and sent it to President Santer and the President-in-Office of the Council. The issue is now at European level, and there it is. The involvement of the public and politics does not mean a break in the Memorandum of Understanding with Slovakia, but rather the promotion of the enforcement of this agreement. This is what the expert Kromp said about the accusation of the breach of the contract by publication. Slovakia has refused the required further insight into the documents on the reactor tanks to the Committee of Experts, which is highly qualified. The experts' summaries are well known: In the case of block I of the Mochovce nuclear power plant, the safety evidence for the prevention of the break over the entire life span is not possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power station without correcting the identified deficiencies would endanger the safety of the population of Slovakia, Hungary, the whole of Austria's eastern region and beyond. Austria was the first country in the world in which it was able to shut down a nuclear power plant or not to put it into operation at all. In the fight against nuclear power plants and for greater security, Austria as a small country has achieved much, but we must continue to express our concerns in the interests of our people, but also in the interests of the people of Central Europe. I am convinced that national consensus – and it has often been adjudicated today – will ensure that at the level of the 15 EU countries and the EU Commission the sense of security of Eastern European power plants will be strengthened. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11534	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11555	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Colleague Doppelmüller, because you have now defended Mr Oberhaidinger. Mr Oberhaidinger has Mr Trenk – Mr Colleague Doppelmüller, let me explain this! – in the absence of the same person accused him of being imprisoned for two years. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: I didn't defend him!]] This is a very serious accusation, and above all it is completely wrong. A person in his absence publicly cut off his honor is pretty much the most common thing you can do at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Why is he not praised?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If Mr Oberhaidinger has a spark, he goes down here and apologises, and immediately! Everything else can no longer be accepted. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Now, however, to Mochovce or to nuclear policy. Mr State Secretary! Once again, you have the honorary task of representing the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Federal Chancellor has truly adopted an anti-atomic policy, as he has operated by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. It has turned into a realistic anti-atomic policy. And how does she look? What about the nuclear current in general? Profits will be cut to billions. It is most lied to the safety standards. Safety standards are pre-accelerated, which are absolutely non-existent. Opinions are ordered. In turn, these opinions are used to speed up a security that is absolutely non-existent. I can only tell you one thing: If the Federal Government does not go completely closed in its anti-atomic policy, credible and not only against Slovakia, against the Czech Republic or against Slovenia, but also at EU level, in Brussels, then we have no chance to prevent this great danger potential that opens up around our borders. The last chance is the negotiations on Easter enlargement. It is inexplicable to me why this instrument is not taken in hand. It is really inexplicable to me because these countries want to go to the EU, and it cannot be that the EU does not set conditions, but only these countries. So use this opportunity, because it won't come back! These countries want to join us, and it is time for Austria to set conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11638	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes, remaining time of your club: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11659	High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mochovce is at the heart of the debate, and I myself had the opportunity to help as many in this House as the then EU Member that the EBRD credit was not running, and we were actually of the opinion that we had achieved great political success at that time. Only: Today it turns out that the atomic lobby has such massive possibilities that politics is apparently powerless. It is also powerless because – at least I do – the will to create a truly nuclear-free zone in Central Europe does not exist in the Austrian Federal Government. I would like to make this clear on the basis of the example of Krško, which is not just like Mochovce is located 180 kilometres from the Austrian border, but is only 80 kilometres from the southern border of Austria. Krško was built on an earthquake line, as Greenpeace claims, due to false documents submitted to the American investor at the time. In the meantime, it has been found that this nuclear power plant is located in an extremely sensitive zone and has already been affected several times by earthquakes. That is why we have been negotiating with Slovenia for a long time about an exit from nuclear energy or a closure of this nuclear power plant. Unfortunately, the opposite is true: It's investing diligently. It is now being prepared in silence for the twelfth combustion cycle in Slovenia; and this, although the public and all experts are aware that the steam generators are extremely in need of renovation. There are always smaller amounts of radioactivity. There are incidents, there are shut-offs. A huge financial volume of 2 billion schilling is needed for the renovation. Only, neither Slovenia nor Croatia, which is involved, currently have the money to carry out this urgently needed renovation. Loans have to be entered, and delays in this issue are taking place. Now, in a resolution, the Carinthian state government has unanimously called for the closure of this nuclear power plant and, I am particularly pleased to say, has expressed its support for the liberals' request that Carinthia agree to join the EU only if Slovenia shuts down this old nuclear power plant and exits from nuclear energy. We were very pleased in Carinthia when the responsible Foreign Minister Schüssel here in Parliament promised a Carinthian delegation of government members that he would support the request to give consent to Slovenia's accession to the EU on the exit from nuclear energy. At that time, we thought that we had achieved great political success, just like at the time in the EU Parliament. Unfortunately, we must note that our requests in this direction are rejected by the government parties and even by parts of the opposition in Parliament. This shows the government's double play. We cannot let that happen and we will also sell it to the public accordingly. You can believe me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How difficult and sensitive this question can be, shows that the recent earthquake, which occurred on Easter Sunday in Slovenia and which affected the Krško nuclear power plant on the edge, did not work at all in the early warning system established between Austria and Slovenia. The Slovenian authorities have not, as agreed in this Treaty, immediately agreed with the Carinthian authorities and the German authorities, but the Federal Alarm Centre has been agreed upon at the High Authority. However, we had bad luck, because on Easter Sunday the Federal Alarm Centre was not occupied, and therefore the warning could not be accepted at all. The chief or a representative of this Federal Alert Centre was justified by the fact that on weekends and holidays no staff are available, because the budget funds are not available and, as he says, because he assumes that no earthquakes occur on weekends. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This shows how seriously nuclear energy policy is taken by the Austrian Federal Government. I therefore call on you not only to make a beautiful appeal to the unity and closeness of Parliament, but to really do what is being done, namely actions that are being put to the press, and to take advantage of the role of Austria in Europe! As a member of the European Union, Austria must use all instruments to guarantee the security of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11716	Mr Barmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11738	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether one minute's speaking time I can only read one more motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11798	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on two motions. I would therefore ask you to take your seats. We shall first proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades on nuclear energy and Eastern enlargement. In the event of your consent to this request, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Barmüller, Dr. Moser, Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Doppelmüller, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades concerning the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 122.) Short debate on the reply to the question 3665/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11858	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs with the 3665/AB order number. The answer to the question was distributed, and a reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate immediately. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. Speech time: 10 minutes, any further speaking time then 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11889	Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore put the debate on this question answer on the agenda today, because we want to show you what impact your policy has on the impact of your legislation. And we want to discuss with the Minister how this will actually continue in the future with regard to the development of emergency aid paid to foreign citizens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have all of this answer and you can look at it: The amount to be paid for emergency aid increased from 30 million Schilling in 1988 to 484 million Schilling in 1997. If you look at this even more precisely, you will see that the amount has increased by 45 percent from 1992 to 1993, from 1995 to 1996 by 39 percent, from 1996 to 1997 by plus 29 percent of an already huge amount. In other words, within nine years, emergency aid expenditure for non-Austrian citizenship has increased from 30 million Schilling to 480 million Schilling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Today you have spoken about the wonderful social country of Austria. – After all, it is no wonder if a very large inflow takes place in this "Wonderful" social country of Austria, if this emergency aid is paid out to foreign unemployed and an increase of 30 percent from one year to the other takes place. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals cannot take this development off, even if you still shake the head so much. They obviously don't care if half a billion schilling is paid to people who have come here to work but who obviously have to remember that they have to return to their home country even if we have no more work for them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are formally inviting these services to do so, even if we are out of work for our domestic workers. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwamlein! When it comes to other expenditures, the Social Ministry is and you are all extremely pinging. For example, for the disabled: They're being shilling off for schilling. The National Fund has only 15 million shillings to spend on the major tasks. You have decided to increase the prescription fee. You've decided to hold your own. The cursive restraints are increased. – It does not matter to you at all to ask the really poor and the needy to check out the cash register. On the other hand, you take quite quietly that hundreds of millions of schilling are spent on people we no longer need in Austria, because there is no work for them. You have to think about it before. They have – and this is also very well evidenced by this response to the question – really expanded the requirements for claims through a number of laws, and that is why such rapid increases have been made. In any case, this is not the policy we want to support, but quite the contrary: We say that we have to make a responsible policy, we have to save and we cannot pay half a billion shillings to people who, as I have said, have come to work here, but who, if they no longer have a job, have to suggest that they return home. We cannot take note of the fact that such a development will continue to be taken into account in the case of emergency aid. Minister! I'm really interested: How do you imagine that? – Unemployment statistics are not at all appropriate to expect a positive development in this area. They are likely to have a 30 percent increase in emergency aid from 1998 to 1999. Please come. You do not now, and you say that the European Court of Justice has decided that foreign workers too must be paid emergency aid, because, after this decision of the European Court of Justice, you would have had the opportunity to decouple emergency aid from unemployment insurance, which has just been declared as an insurance benefit by the European Court of Justice. You could have said that we would continue to maintain and declare the character of emergency aid as a care provision, and we must put in place the relevant legislative measures so that it can continue to stand before the European Court of Justice. And that would have been possible! We recommended this to you at the time and also discussed this with experts: This would have been a way of decoupling the provision of care from the insurance benefit. In fact, it is totally reprehensible to link emergency aid to unemployment contributions, because there are people who are in need for ten or 15 years as a result of a former employment relationship, for which ten or 15 years ago contributions were made for the last time. As a result of the fact that emergency aid is a long-term benefit, it is quite easy to see that it is a care and not an insurance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I still have to discuss the following with you – and this should also give you some thought – about the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding future payments. When it was discussed here in Parliament that emergency aid should also be introduced for foreign unemployed in 2000, the Minister said that this would cost us 400 million schilling in 2000 – in other words, to the 480 million, which will probably be 500 million already, and 400 million schilling. Now that the Constitutional Court in Austria has made a statement in this direction, the minister says suddenly that it costs only 53 million Schilling. – Either Your officials are not expecting, or your predictions are bad, or you have at some point told Parliament the untruth, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think you simply don't want to go out with the truth. They want to give the impression that the emergency aid is covered in the budget. They do not want to admit that the amount actually comes closer to 400 million schilling than 50 million. I must say that I have a little fear of your other calculations and of your other predictions of how the development of the social budget will be. Because if you are so blatantly mistaken when an error occurs in the order of 350 million schillings, then that is no longer negligible, but then in your entire ministry or in your political stance is somewhat serious wrong, Mrs. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, there are some ways to stop this fatal development. Once you have to befriend foreign workers who no longer find work in Austria and who have already used unemployment insurance to ask them to return to their homes, to stop immigration and to switch to the seasonal model, we should need foreign workers. Furthermore, you should take our proposal seriously to decouple emergency support from unemployment insurance. For the current development is guaranteed that we will no longer be able to afford it.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e11979	In the following debate, the opinions of members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. The maximum speaking time for the speakers is 5 minutes. Mrs. Hostasch has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12003	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! ==References== This year, on a request from the Free Party, a very detailed opinion. I have made very clear in this opinion the development of emergency aid and I have also given the reasons for this development. In the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to draw up the cost question and explain how the cost development is assessed on the basis of very profound calculations. It will be up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to examine at the given time and to question whether these cost assessments correspond to the actual circumstances. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Which one now? The first or the second?]] But I have enough confidence in my officials and also in my political assessment to tell you that you will then be confirmed that our estimates of costs are the right ones. I reject the fact that my officials or I are going to lie! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the opportunity today to present some concrete key statements, basic statements on emergency aid to the House and to talk to you in principle about emergency aid. In my opinion, the emergency aid scheme in Austria is an essential protection for long-term unemployed. The emergency aid includes elements of social security, but also elements of social assistance. So it is a mixed performance that is given to the needy. It is therefore necessary to take into account insurance criteria, but also the aspect of integration must play a corresponding role. Mrs Partik-Pablé! Allow To tell me: Their understanding of people in a working relationship in our country, regardless of their nationality, does not correspond to that. I therefore believe that the procedure we have always chosen in this House by a majority corresponds to the general majority of understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Foreigners must be treated equally in insurance law. I have already pointed out that emergency aid is a mixed benefit and therefore also the insurance aspect must be taken into account. In the field of social assistance, differentiation according to the extent of integration is justified. It is therefore also factually justified if we define criteria for emergency aid requirements. I would like to inform the House once again that foreigners are paying more in the unemployment insurance system than they receive from this social security system. The reason lies, on the one hand, in the fact that there is a different age structure for foreign insurers and, on the other hand, a different income structure. But I think it is important to know that the accusation goes empty that a group in our society is taken out much more than it pays into the solidarity insurance community. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not want to go ahead with this afternoon's debate, but I am sure that today's emergency aid and emergency aid will again be subject to a very different political view, and that the new regulation in the House with 1. April this year was decided, both by the representatives of the Greens and by the Liberal Forum, but, as we have already heard, will also be subject by the liberals to criticism, although from very different motives, with very different reasonings and also with very different goals. I believe that we have found the right means to ensure long-term unemployment, and I recognise the criterion of emergency aid that it has an unlimited extension option in principle. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you say about the explosion of 30 percent?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If people have been integrated into the work process for a long time, they thus have a fair chance of securing a living according to their previous employment. Long-term unemployed are those most in need of our support; and all our efforts are in the direction of integrating long-term unemployed into the labour process – whether they are foreigners or foreigners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, please also allow me to refer to those arguments and discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, as though there were constitutional irregularities in this area. I also said in committee that it is never easy to foresee how the highest courts in our country ultimately make decisions, how the Constitutional Court takes a decision in a specific case. If we are looking at the specific question of emergency aid for foreigners, then it is true that the Constitutional Court held just a few years ago that the regulation at that time is absolutely constitutional, because it is an emergency aid which combines insurance and social assistance. In its judgment, the Constitutional Court found that it now took a different view and came to a different constitutional assessment, so that I do not believe that policy should be blamed here. ==References====External links== This year, in good faith, the Constitutional Conformity was established. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that with this regulation, which has been adopted since 1. In April, we found a constitutional system which takes account of our social policy considerations. But I say very openly: Should it become apparent that this system is also not approved by our Supreme Constitutional Court, we would have to make fundamental considerations regarding the orientation of emergency aid, in order to take account of those criteria which I have previously identified as the main criteria for the protection of long-term unemployed. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to continue to ask you for support so that we can provide social security for those who are threatened or affected by long-term unemployment, whether they are foreigners or foreigners.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12087	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. The first speaker was Mr Hums. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12112	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a very restrictive foreign employment policy, which always takes into account the situation on the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at the development!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I don't understand your attitude. I have met you on many points other than a person with quite high social competence. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I also have a high social competence!]] Then you must not share this social competence unjustly, depending on where man comes from. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The people came here to work!]] If you read the log later and see your own statements, you'll probably be scared. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Because you said the foreigners were welcome to work here. - That's all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I didn't say that! I said they came to work!]] With their work they have contributed to the value creation of Austria, because of which we have become one of the richest countries in the world! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If you had brought the Austrians to work!]] Foreigners have not only worked and contributed to our prosperity, they have also paid contributions and taxes – they are still doing so today. That is why it is only human and fair that, when they come to a difficult situation, we are restricted and, under certain conditions, also caring for them - from the resources paid by them themselves. The answer to this question, which is so clear that there should be no discussion, is also expressly that the ratio between deposit and withdrawal is 1.2 to 1. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me what you say to the explosion by 30 percent!]] That is to say, with a spark of sense of justice, which you should also live in from your profession, you should accept this not only for social reasons but also for the sake of justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: increased by 30 percent!]] In the past, emergency aid happily did not play such a big role. But – and you are right – before the European Court of Human Rights has been ruled, gradually, under certain conditions, an emergency aid has been started to be granted to foreigners. Even today, it is not the case that someone only has to come to Austria and work here for a few days in order to get unemployment support and then the emergency aid. For eight years the foreigner must have contributed to the Austrian value added! We have taken a very reasonable course with this regulation, as I believe, which hopefully also holds, because at the same time it is still taken into account that there is a particular special Austrian reference. For either the person entitled has a job of eight years, and in eight years he has paid a lot of taxes, contributions and added value, or – in order to maintain Austria’s relationship – it is a young unemployed under 25 years of age, who has completed half of compulsory schooling in Austria, or a unemployed person born in Austria, or a unemployed person who had at least half the life of his main residence or regular residence in Austria. It cannot happen that a foreigner worked here and then went home with the emergency aid. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Without going home!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, you know exactly that someone who refers to emergency aid must be in a position to work and be entitled to work. Only then will he get the emergency aid. And, of course, everything is done to get him back into the work process. I believe that we have created a socially right and just system. That's why I ask again: Rethink this your attitude. The judgment of the Court of Human Rights, which we follow with our sense of law, is already from 1996. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I do not want to stretch the case of Rosenstingl for the hundredth time – that is not my case. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't fit!]] But in this case it would even be an excuse for you if you had just given up today's discussion to distract from it. This would still be the most human interpretation for an otherwise socially unintelligible attitude to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12281	Mr Feurstein has also been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12302	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, this morning it was not quite clear why this meeting was called for an answer to a question. For the answer to the question was comprehensive, complete – and it was also correct, ladies and gentlemen. Now it has become clear to me, after the debate by Dr. Partik-Pablé: Once again, it is a question of finding that Austria is too generous to the foreigners. And that's bad! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why is this bad?]] You have said that you are afraid of Mrs. Minister. I am afraid of you and of the social policy you represent from the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then the social policy of Kreisky was bad?]] People who have worked here for eight years who have paid unemployment insurance contributions for eight years want to put their families at the border when they become unemployed in Austria. It's bad, Mrs. Doctor, what you're asking for here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But it used to be not!]] But it is even worse that you deny the insurance component of emergency aid. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It was not like that before, Mr. Deputies!]] For us, an insurance component is also included, it is not a purely care performance. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why do you scare if you used to agree?]] Ladies and gentlemen, how many people do we have in Austria, which unfortunately are five years, ten years unemployed, looking for work and receiving emergency aid – Austrians and non-Austrians – and to whom do you want to reduce the right to emergency aid and reduce it to a purely social assistance benefit? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The law used to be!]] This is a disastrous social policy that you are proclaiming here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It wasn't that before!]] I believe that this true face of FPÖ's social policy must be clarified in the public. This is not how you want to pursue social policy! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But that was the true face of the Social Democrats and the ÖVP! This has always been the case, Mr Deputies.]] Now to your question: Do we prefer the foreigners in emergency aid? – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why did they be introduced so late?]] Of all foreigners employed in Austria, 1.3 percent are in need. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Half a billion schilling plus 30 percent!]] You know that it is the foreigners who are being checked very closely with regard to the rules on availability. The rules on availability are even more stringent in them than in some others who are emergency workers. 1.3 percent! And these 1.3 percent you want to put at the limit! In principle, we reject that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion. Emergency aid is also an insurance benefit, and eight years of contributions have to be paid. Whoever meets the alert for emergency aid in Austria should also be entitled to emergency aid if he loses his job if the unemployment benefit is exhausted. I would ask you, as a matter of urgency, to distance yourself from your anti-human policy and to take into account, in particular, the concerns of social policy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you're distracting from the subject!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why didn't you do this before?]] I am afraid of your FPÖ social policy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12516	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12537	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! We will not solve the problems with grueling appeals to the social conscience. And if Mr Feurstein said that the answer to the question was correct anyway, I have to say that I assume that this is probably the case with all the answers to the question. - Isn't it? Are you not self-evident? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I will hold the inhumane asylum policy before you and your federal government. The Constitutional Court's statement was quite an appeal not to make a judgment for 18 months so that the 1998/99 budgets are not burdened with those problems as they are today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm afraid of that!]] This is your form of politics! And I'm afraid of that too, I have to tell you! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] They believe they can do everything under the decree of the Cross. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes!]] Madam Minister, I really must congratulate you. You are a master in unanswered questions. They were asked which of the calculations is now true. Is it 400 million schilling or is it 53 million schilling – what's right now? I am telling you that if we assume the average burden included in the Emergency Aid Act, the burden on foreign emergency aid providers in 1999 will amount to about one billion schilling to 1.1 billion schilling. This is almost a triple compared to 1996. That's the truth! I understand that one shakes the head when Members of the opposition speak of the lack of 1 billion schilling in the labour market service. – You, Mrs. Minister, shake your head – disbelief or whatever. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That doesn't scare you!]] Although they have 400 million schillings more for foreign emergency workers in one year, according to tomorrow’s newspapers, the labour market service still lacks this one billion. And now I ask you very seriously: Will you continue to contribute to radicalisation in the social sector in Austria with your response to questions in the future? One thing will not last for the long term: that you are constantly answering important questions, instead of admitting that individual countries such as Lower Austria, Styria, Carinthia, Upper Austria have already exhausted their labour market service budgets for 1998 in the first quarter of this year. Finally, I would like to have a concrete answer from you, how you will finance this in the future. That would be decent of you once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The missing immigration and asylum policy now falls on your mind. The courts take God’s thanks not to regard the feelings of the members of the government. So we mean, because it can't be, it can't be either. It is not until 2000 that foreign emergency aid providers will receive the money – because there is no resources in the budget because we are practicing pre-emptive subsidy in Brussels. Why don't you deal with these questions in concrete terms? Answer only the question of how labour market services should maintain the same incentives in 1998 as in 1997 if 1 billion schilling is missing! In particular, support for firms that train their workforce, training for job-seekers and women with care responsibilities is concerned. At the same time, in addition to these missing billions, we have a rise in unemployment rate of 7.1 percent. When we joined the EU we had 4.5 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That doesn't matter!]] That's your performance! This is the performance of government policy in Austria since EU accession: almost doubling the unemployment rate. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not what you want to hear. These things are always answered with anointing appeals to the social conscience. We will not master the future. But I'm telling you, there's a variety of savings. Perhaps the Chamber of Labour in Austria should feed a bit less on the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and, rather, release funds to support active labour market policies. These are measures that would be necessary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no need for euphoria either, because the EU Presidency is now financed by sponsorship. At the same time, there are no resources available for the unemployed. I believe that it is high time the government once worked so that the labour market service, which is the main burden on the situation of the unemployed, can work properly again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12638	I call Mr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12660	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would rather have spoken right after Mr Feurstein. You could've hooked up. Now we have to get together in order not to deal too much with what Mr Gaugg said. It was a mixture of arguments that already have a common thread, which reads: Foreigners out! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The senior teacher is distributing censorships!]] Mrs. Partik-Pablé, I'm not giving out censorships, I'm just describing how I'm experiencing it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you didn't listen! Mr Gaugg said something completely different.]] And I want to put it in the minutes so that it can't be overlooked. Of course you have a dilemma, Mrs Partik-Pablé and Mr Gaugg. Since it was established that the monthly social benefits received by people in Austria must be sufficiently recognized for the period of life, the deportation rate of people who have come from abroad has been working with us and have become unemployed. And that bothers you. Say it directly! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what we say!]] It bothers you that these people cannot be pushed off quickly because they have previously paid out eight or more years of social security contributions and therefore have the same claims as any Austrian. Tell them that they are right then if you can only cash from them without giving them the rights associated with them. Tell the expressis verbis! At least that would be honest. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We said that quite clearly!]] And if you only cling to citizenship and completely overlook that citizenship does not even distinguish between the foreigners you love, who are rich, decent and wealthy and come from the West or elsewhere, and the others, you say so too! Tell them that you also want to give EU citizens the same status that you are demanding here, namely that they be allowed to enter our system, but not have any claims. Say that! Say that was one of the reasons why you were against the EU, why you are against mobility, and why you are in a breath of anti-economic and non-social nature. Tell me clearly! Because that's exactly what it is. If you shake confidence in such things as social security, taxes, taxes, mobility, then you will wonder what comes out of it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Chambers!]] This does not mean that the prosperity will break out with us, because there will be no more migration to us, which you seem to fear, but that the emigration will finally prevail. Look Once you have reached the migration rates: Total amount of migration from Austria: plus 3 800 heads in 1996. Where is the dramatic problem you're always talking about? And with this addition of 3,800 people, plus 4,942 EU citizens are taken into account! Tell me you don't want to. Sage It is clear: Most importantly, someone tattooed an Austrian masherl somewhere, then he gets unemployment benefit and emergency aid. But if he doesn't, he won't get it. They thus pour out your own child with the bath, because these people pay more into the system than they get out of the system. That means that you'd only worsen the balance if you were to drive these people out. They overlook the need for domestic value-added. If you do not have a warm feeling for these people, at least admit that they are needed. And that does not give the impression that I am defending the current state of the social policy of the Federal Government: What the European Court of Justice has forced us to do is by no means generous and discriminated against domestics, because this eight-year rule now applies more or less to all. That is why I ask you to leave the church in the social policy village. Although the answer to the question was not satisfactory from my point of view, it was complete. If you want to discuss this, I agree, but tell them that you were just looking for another excuse, in other words, "foreigners out!" to be able to say. I would have preferred that because the debate would have been shorter. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But that is not at all true! You didn't listen!]] Partik-Pablé comes to the pult and says: Foreigners out!, then Gaugg comes and says: Foreigners!, and that would have made it much shorter instead of debate for an hour. But you must not let it go unanswered! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What we're talking about here, we're going to decide for ourselves!]] That's why Feurstein went to the speaker's desk here, so Hums went to the speaker's desk, so I went to the speaker's desk, and therefore Terezija Stoisits will go to the speaker's desk – not because it's fun for us to discuss such things, but because it's necessary to object.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12777	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12807	Mr. Klubobmann Khol! Not Laku no# yet, but Dobar ve#er. The evening is long. Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Gaugg spoke of radicalisation in the social sphere. If anyone in this country is responsible for radicalizations, then the one who has taken the word and is a true master in it, namely the well-known "bookstabiler" – I don't need to say any more. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then these are the Greens!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is the only way he has become famous!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to the documentation provided by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, 3,000 people could receive 6 000 S of emergency aid per month with that money, which accounts for about half of what is currently being received from non-Austrian citizenship, according to your information in the request for an emergency aid response. 3 000 people could get 6 000 s a month with the sum that the suspected cheater and former member of the Freedom Party, Rosenstingl, has on his conscience. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: For a whole year!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] This is essential to show you the dimensions to make it clear how much – much is the wrong word – rather, how little it is about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the "consumer" it was probably millions!]] These amounts are nebulous and, in view of what actually costs the social sector in Austria, are truly negligible. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't forget the "Mozart" that Mr. Vranitzky put in the sand!]] I consciously express this: 200 million schilling alleged damage due to "F" functionaries, and the double amount is on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why a majority? Who are the others?]] – These are the dimensions My dear ladies and gentlemen! I have little to add to what Mr Kier said, except that I do not like to do with the Freedom Party and with its officials much less, because constructive proposals, contributions, contributions to the debate – as has been seen today in this debate – are no longer to be expected from this group. What really interests me is the answer of the Federal Minister. It is quite instructive on a number of points. But I have, Mrs Federal Minister – and this has nothing to do with the Freedom Party and today's discussion – in the exact reading of your reply to something that disappointed me a little, namely the difference between your reply to the question and the answer to a similar question, which we made in 1993 to the Minister Hesoun, who was at that time – in a very different intention, of course, than the Freedom Party had in mind with her request. Although the then Federal Minister replied in a similar detail, it was – and I refer this to a situation that has to do with the climate in Austria – even more detailed than the one he has listed in this relation: 1.2. He has also expressed it in figures to illustrate what it is all about. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Here you see how important the answer is!]] I miss that in your answer! I agree that five years ago there was another climate in this country. 1993 was the year of foreign folk desire of the Freedom Party. Trade unionists, activists of citizens' initiatives, but also party members fought this popular desire together at the time. Now, five years later, I have the impression that the effort to represent what it really is about in the core was bigger at that time, regardless of the intentions of the Freedom Party. Mrs Bundesminister, we expect that in discussions – and be they forced by the liberals – there is also an aspect of the Enlightenment because in this case the truth is not only essential to clear prejudices and resentments, false assessments and false figures from the world, but also to influence the climate accordingly. I – and you know that I was never a special friend of the then Federal Minister Hesoun – at the time even more localized in the answer to the question than today. But you can make up for this failure, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: I have this today!]] You have a chance!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12951	The business-to-business statements are exhausted. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12972	I will now resume the negotiations on the XII Consultative Group. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). A voluntary time limit of 5 minutes is indicated. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e12997	Thank you very much, Mr President. High house! I shall now come back to the question of military defence and the corresponding budget. In my opinion, on the day we talk about this 1999 budget, we have to ask the basic question of where the German army will develop in the next few years, given the various statements made by members of the individual political groups. For one thing, as we have noted, budget resources are far too small, and for the other, those 21.7 billion schilling for the year 1999 are far too much. That is why the principle question arises in which direction we will go in the next few years with regard to the defence of the military state. This question requires a decision. We should see this question in the background of the end of the cold war, we all know, the establishment of NATO-Neu, which is now being guided on real lines, and a crisis centre in the Balkans and other crisis spots with which we have to deal in Europe. We are facing an extension of the whole European Union, which will take place over the next few years, and we do not know how Russia and Ukraine can be estimated militaryly today. – That is why there are four different directions, which are always represented in this House. In the direction of number one it would be that Austria is really going on a completely independent military path in the future. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[The speaker shall keep the Greens' Option Report up to date.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: There's a white point!]] No, there seems to be a hole in this option report at all. After reading their safety report, their option report, I would like to acknowledge that for the first time, the Greens are aware of a military necessity, for example, when they say that a mountain division must be set up and that airspace monitoring should be maintained in the future. This is a certain step forward. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: The Greens want an international mercenary team!]] However, there are only very careful attempts to move forward on a realistic path, unfortunately almost as in the Echternacher Spring Procession: three steps forward, two back. When assessing what option would be best for Austrian security policy, the Greens return to their classic scheme, for example with the option they call "model peace zone" and in which social defence is spoken. It reminds of the times of the peace demos in the 1970s when the Greens went very strongly in this direction – housing of town panels and setting of signposts. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that over this time we are all actually gone, and it makes no sense to get closer to it. That's why this way is probably out of place. The second way is towards the development of a completely new European security system within the European Union. In his statements, the Federal Chancellor has shown this way several times. He believes that there are good reasons for presenting himself as a military European Union for the future. I have to say that in a close observation of the scene I could not find a single indication that this path has a right. Although Mr Moser of the Liberals has remained with the WEU and does not yet dare to take the next step towards NATO-New, I will, as I believe, be right in this regard. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Think model must be!]] I have not yet met anyone for whom a new military alliance in the framework of the European Union would be a realistic way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] That is why I think that seems to be the case. The third question is whether a new axis of the neutral states in Europe would really have a future. We also heard a lot about climate. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking for Neutral States as a security alliance partner is a beautiful thing. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're not there anymore!]] We know, however, that a neutral state will in any case never help another, because it is just neutral. Unfortunately, I do not see this option. What about a Nordic option with Finland and Sweden? We live in Central Europe, and our neighbours want to join NATO. That is why, I believe, it is also this path. It is therefore only that way that the Austrian People's Party has proposed to join the NATO-Neu. We have put forward our arguments for this and put a request and an option report with very good reasons into the debate. [[The speaker keeps the ÖVP's option report up-to-date.]] I believe that we should follow this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13101	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13123	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. So, Mr Spindelegger, you do not want to listen to me, but I will nevertheless express my amazement at your remarks. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger speaks to Abg. Hans Helmut Moser]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Sorry!]] I would have expected that if you had already quoted our option report, you would have read it as well. But you obviously did not, for otherwise you knew that what you quoted here is simple and simply nonsensical – I'm sorry. You have mentioned the various options that we are presenting in this report. However, we have not only presented our option, as the ÖVP has done – you can do it too; you can say that, we want to present it, we represent it – but we have made the effort to present seven options, including NATO accession. Mr Spindelegger! For example, you could have quoted the option of NATO entry from the brochure. We have also presented accession to the WEU, we have presented all possible options, including one that was rightly en vogue in the 1970s, namely that of social defence. I am not necessarily a Fan of this option as an exclusive, alone option, but you can discuss it. That is exactly what I miss in connection with the discussions on this budget chapter: There is no debate on this! I am surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled a motion on which we are well known to discuss, but not vote, because otherwise the coalition would be broken. I think this is a – forgive me – parliamentary farce! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you were to take it quite seriously and really so much to do with it, you would not only have advice on your request but also let it vote on it. However, they seem to have been trapped in a single picture of the foreign and security policy option and no other image of allowing no other view. Otherwise, I can't explain that to myself! This raises a question that is probably also budget-relevant: Why did we all get such a beautiful manual on Austrian security policy? – It is beautiful – with color photos and everything – but I wonder who did it. It has been written by a platform of all kinds of institutions, some of which also receive public subsidies from my knowledge. It would be interesting if all subsidies were granted. I would also be interested if, for example, the Ministry of Defence was supporting the publication of this brochure. I suspect that she has a somewhat more efficient character, because otherwise we would not have gotten her. Minister! If you would be ready, in the sense of pluralism, but also in the sense of the Constitutional Arch – for we are still neutral and alliance-free, and the options are at least theoretically open to us, I can, if I listen to the debate, make available to all, for example, our option report, by reprinting the issue at your expense and then making available to the military and all those interested – perhaps by means of an address catalogue, as was the case with this brochure? [[Abg. Scheibner: (to Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven, sitting on the government bank) That was really bad with this report!]] Mr. Minister of Defence! This would be in line with what the Federal President recalled in his New Year's address. It has found that we should assume that there is a free expression of opinion and that everyone – everyone! – whether they are for it or against it, or whatever option they represent, the same possibilities, resources and also the same potential. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister, that's where you're called! If that is so and if you take to heart what the Federal President has said in his new year's address, I expect you to request our option report – the printing flags you can like – to hunt it through the printing machines and to make it available to your audience as well as this brochure. In my opinion, that would be the minimum thing to do. Otherwise, this debate is always one-sided, as the ÖVP – and obviously the SPÖ with it – always sits on the levers, can distribute funds and obviously also have the corresponding recipients. If you want an open discussion and if you are right that all the options are discussed, you cannot find out about our option report, because it shows all the options. It is legitimate that the last chapter also outlines an option of the Greens. Here too, an option is clearly presented, namely that of NATO accession, and that under the motto of the EU Presidency. [[the speaker keeps the manual on Austrian security policy up to date]] I read that we are going to a year in which Austria has the EU Presidency and, as this brochure says, the face and the voice of Europe. So now it is supposed to be the motto, and that is the NATO accession, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Group, which is somewhat in need today. You should take a look at that. Perhaps it would have failed if you were to get together on a joint option report and get the same color. Because if you do not call for this manual – as I suppose – to be publicly subsidized, then you can actually save your virginity in the option report. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Your report was also financed by club money, which is also tax money!]] Minister! We have shown in a press conference last week that you have already made quite different advances to NATO accession. We've all listed them in this press conference. There are three areas that, with the budget of your resort, would not already make compatibility with NATO, would not be such a budget effective. This includes, first of all, the area of armor. My colleague, Mr Wabl, has already presented this in his contribution to the debate. This is not a small amount of money, it is about 1.9 billion schilling and additional 1.4 billion schilling from the sale of barracks. That's not little! But it is also about the costs already incurred for the Austrian Embassy. Of course you can say: That doesn't fall into the weight, what is it? That's just over two million schilling. What's the matter? – Nevertheless, that’s something. And it is ultimately about the exercises and all related costs. All in all, that accounts for 2.2 billion schilling. And I think this is surprising, because there is no transparency in the budget in this respect. If you look in there, you will find that not so quickly and so quickly, but you have to filter out where these costs are with a number of questions that we have addressed to you in recent years and especially last year, so to speak. This, of course, is also the result of this account, which we can only make over and over again: It is indeed worth noting that the amounts for social policy, social policy, health and other key areas are falling in the budget, as they are reduced, as there are less 7 000 million schilling from 1997 to 1998, while there is a constant increase in budgets in the areas of internal policy, but above all in the military. Our option is not, and you know that. I am actually at the end of my speech. It is not so much for me – Mr Spindelegger has tried this again; it is difficult enough in this mood and in this non-existent enthusiasm for this debate – to draw the boundaries. I note that you have a different opinion, but I do not notice that this opinion is, in fact, already a preconceived opinion, de facto a state opinion, based on which no debate, without Parliament's decision, without Parliament's budget, is carried out and practised, such nice, small brochures are being distributed and constantly generated in the direction and in the way that there is no longer any deviation at all, once there should be a referendum. As a matter of fact, Mr Minister, you have taken over the protection of honor for an event, namely the NATO workshop, which is surprisingly taking place for the first time in a non-NATO member country, although it has always been held in NATO member countries. See, if I have all this together, if I have all your activities up to this NATO workshop, up to such brochures together, if I still take the foreign policy visits, the foreign policy invitations that do not happen by chance, but always come from countries that are really, like, strict NATO member countries, then, I think, the media should always reflect the image: Nothing's going to pass a NATO entry! All of this is not a coincidence. They are trying to preside over opinions, create opinions, without any corresponding parliamentary public debate and without, above all, other opinions allowing other views, or even giving them the space and the place they should necessarily have. Finally, I would like to say something to the FPÖ, although what I would like to address has been back for four hours now, but nevertheless: Of course, it's very plump – Mr. Jung's not here – to go out here and say: [[Abg. Young: Oja!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Everyone's here!]] Please, there we go! Now we've got the women in the military, and now one goes out one after the other. They brought the example of the ten little negroes. [[Abg. Jung: Don't miss me! I said the Minister promised too much!]] I can only tell you, Mr. Jung: In the next few days, you will be busy renouncing very different ten-little-noble verses when the official wound continues in your party. Work with it!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13269	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Tychtl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13290	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address two things in my short contribution. Firstly, I think it is necessary to highlight the internal state of the federal army, especially from the point of view of those who are also making complaints, and secondly, it is my heart to attach something that I have tried to question in the preliminary discussion of the budget, but I have not received an answer, namely the further facilities for health care. Let me start with the first thing: The rise in complaints – and this already shows a certain behavior of our citizens and now also citizens – is rising. During the whole of 1997 we had 380 complaints to deal with, in 1998 we already have 320 complaints, although we have not yet reached the middle of the year. The question now arises: What's that about? – On the one hand, it is certainly because today's citizens are more expensive than before and know that one can complain, and also about what they have to say or what is not supposed to be. It is interesting that 65 percent of the complaints are made by recruits, 30 percent by cadre staff, 5 percent are from other people, because – and that too should be said – more and more parents or relatives of people who are in the federal army complain. They draw our attention to things that should simply not be commonplace. I therefore think it is also interesting to know how the area of appeal is divided into the reasons set out. For example, 50 percent complain about training, organization and service, about 20 percent are personal matters, and about 10 percent of complaints concern care, food. – Military is not support. Especially in the organization and in the service sector, it is something that you can of course always improve – that is clear to me – but I think you can also read from these statistics that we should do it and not let it be used in the complaints, because that would have little meaning. The main point here – and I would like to add that here too – is the fact that one has tried to establish a so-called telephone hotline on the part of the Federal Army Parliamentary Commission on Complaints. This will give citizens the opportunity to get information. For this is also a point – which I would like to bring in, because I would also like to say a few sentences on the training of women in the federal army – that one agrees and questions: How are you? What can you do? What should you do? Let me say in all clarity and openness: None of the women who have so far joined the German army have complained in any form. They were not women who complained, but they were relatives, they were husbands, friends et cetera. This has resulted in the media having gotten wind of alleged shocks with the federal army. Of course, there has also been an excessive ambition on the part of the soldiers – and this must also be mentioned here – and it is clear that it is difficult to have women on the one hand who want to be trained, who have a goal in mind, and men who have to be trained there, but do not always want it. Thank God those shortcomings we have identified in the Kaserne Street were immediately stopped, and I can say on this subject: Thank God, the thing is all right! Now to what is especially dear to me. Mr Federal Minister, I asked you in the context of the budget debate how the PANDUR continues. The PANDUR is now in use, it is highly praised by all, but now it is noted that there are alleged difficulties with regard to the technical concept, wheelbase, transport capacity et cetera. Now I'm wondering, On the one hand, we have the PANDUR. We also send them to international operations such as MINURSO. Only if we send them to MINURSO and there is a failure or an accident or someone is actually injured, then in PANDUR we have no transport capacity with San equipment: There's no such thing as that. There is a single PANDUR that has that, you can see it, but it is not operational. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's out of cardboard cover!]] Now I'm wondering, What's going to happen? Do you send ten PANDURs who are on their way, and if something happens, will a Haflinger or whatever, or will someone come with the stretcher? It can't be. Federal Minister! I really urge you to implement the San concept on the question of PANDUR. My speaking time has expired. – Sanity is important, first aid is necessary – Mr Federal Minister, act on this issue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13347	Next word: Mr Dr. Ofner. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13368	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I connect where my previous speaker has stopped, namely the PANDUR. Because what happens to the PANDUR programme is symptomatic of the problem of the entire state defense. What has not been promised! At 800 PANDUR we started, now a few dozen are delivered, and you don't hear anything about it anymore. The question to the Federal Minister, as is the case with the remaining PANDUR, is not answered. With a friendly smile, the Minister has gone over these things. The army's going badly, the army's going very badly. I'd agree if one or the other of the government parties had come out and said, There's nothing you can do! There are contractual obligations that prevent us from making national defence more efficient. Or: We are very sorry, but at the best of will, we cannot spend the money to buy what is necessary for the defence of the country. But no one does. There is no ban on the financial means one could discuss, but you are going another way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – much less by the Social Democratic Party – you are going the way that you say: Everything's all right! You're not looking for arguments, you're not even looking for excuses, you're just going over the thing with the reproach: All palettes! All right, sir! As with ring theatre fire: Everything saved! – But in truth everything is in the bad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or the problem of tank defense over all distances – I don't need to mention the problem of air defense at the 8 minutes speaking time I have available – or the problem of air defense. We are not talking about the latter at all, because there is virtually no such thing as a certain height and only sporadically in some areas under this altitude if you put it there punctually. What about the planes? – One of my previous speakers, I think it was Mr. Hans Helmut Moser, has already dealt with it. They're all gone, as you'd say. There's no more pickerl. There's no pickerl left for the helicopters, there's no pickerl left for the surface flyers. Then I hear the suggestion that you should save – you're not mad at me when I mention it now – and you should also limit the structures so that it fits together again. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gaál]] But it seems that you don't even have the idea or at least you don't go to realize how to break your head. You have no concept at all. There's no time horizon. You go out and say it's all right. But scatter vests for the soldiers, helmets that would meet today's requirements, one does not have or only in very small quantities. If you are abroad and you have to play the pattern boys there, then something will be bought and re-enacted. The pioneers explain to the young men who go there: We can't do great stories. The whole heavy pioneer device is in Bosnia, and the bridge – it really has been so reported to me from a unit; the bridge, apparently the only one – is already somewhere else. Before we can't give up on those there, unfortunately we can't teach you anything in this sector either. Mr. Federal Minister! I have a hard time attacking you because you know you have a winning being that has not missed his impression on me so far. But in the long run one will not get through with simply not dealing with questions, dealing with nothing at all, giving no concrete answers, getting over everything and always smiling with kindness. When I observed this from my place today, it reminded me a little of the operetta "Land of Smile" of Lehár, in which it reads: "Always smile, always enjoying..." The Lehár was a military chaplain, but that's not all. He also had a brother who was General. People who know each other need to know. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you can't take over from him that everything has been done with "always smile, always enjoying". Smile Werner – this is not enough. With Smile Werner you can't make a national defense! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can still laugh so kindly. You can only disappear over it. One person or another who has not been involved in the subject for a long time, you will be able to cook with charm, but if he deals with the matter a little bit, he will realize: "Just smile," after the operetta – that's not enough! Management by smiling, this is not enough for the national defence of a central state – we are actually not a small state, even though we ourselves always fall within the role of the small staters. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: How beautiful if you would make management by smiling at the FPÖ! You're doing management by crying!]] It will not be possible to escape with management by smiling that we are already stuck in the PANDUR program, that we do not have the night vision devices in the tank defense, that we have no suitable flight defense at all, that we have a loud plane without a picker and that we do not break our heads at all, which we must not have any more pioneer equipment available to us, and not enough Indians at all. We still have enough heads, Indians we don't have enough, because they all go to the reservation to the civilians. Indians who really still exist in the Pampa, of which we don't have any more. That is also unfortunate, but sometimes I have the impression that this is very important to one another – perhaps also to you, Minister – because if there are no more Indians, then you can easily move on to the new reform of the army. You need fewer and less Indians, only the heads remain, they stay there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's all day-to-day, even in this house, 20 meters of airline from here, in the old Reich Council meeting room. It is only necessary to read the biography of Conrad – better known as Hötzendorf – which has resigned from its leadership function in the old army, the "great silencer" before the First World War. She's still silent now. She knows how it is, and you notice the obscurity, but she is silent as it is Austrian tradition. Already at that time there was the same Zores in the Reichsrat as today: no financial resources! Everyone said: We don't have an enemy anyway! What's going on? Everything's embedded. Since the Vienna Congress only more is danced and no more war is waged. At that time it was about the heavy artillery. - We don't need it! Then it was about the newly raised machine gun helpers. - We don't need it! Conrad has resigned, and everything has been paid in the war, which has then come, with the blood of hundreds of thousands of young Austrians and with the breaking of the empire. That was the result. Everything was already there! And now I must not be told that there are no reserves. They've already been mentioned today. Eight years of border deployment: This costs 400 million schillings per year, which is 3.2 million in eight years. [[Call the SPÖ: Billions!]] In fact, you are not responsible for this, but for the interior area, which is also located somewhere. With 3.2 million you have subsidized another place in these eight years – billions, well, I'm an optimist, as you can see, billions – and at least as much or much more went into foreign intervention. [[Abg. Wallner: billions! Billions!]] In fact, others are also responsible, not defence: perhaps the foreign office or the Federal Chancellery or anyone, but at least not the defence. I have to hurry very fast. As one of the presidents of the Federal Hero-Complaint Commission, I would like to add two more legitimate wishes to my previous speaker. The desired number one is the: We imagine that the law on the activity of the Complaints Commission, in the Wehrgesetz, finally establishes a limitation period of about one year. Whoever believes that he is wrong, that he may experience injustice, let him complain. But he's supposed to do it right away, not after five years, when he's been armed up for a long time, and eventually comes out of a mood for the idea: Now I'm still complaining. - That was number one. Number two: We also wish that a border be removed. We want real injustice, genuine injustice, genuine growth in the army's operations to be shown and suspected accordingly, including through the Federal Army Complaints Commission. However, we are aware that the army is nowhere in the world, nor can it be a girl's pension in Austria. We therefore want to have a border of luggage in the law below which we come to the point of view: We don't treat that. It just doesn't pay off. These were the wishes I made with this.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13470	Mr Sauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13492	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have actually listened very closely to my previous speakers in this chapter. I have found that many previous speakers have pointed out shortcomings and had a great deal of criticism – former soldiers have done so, Mr Jung – but I have just heard from you, Mr Jung, no word about what our soldiers have done in a positive way. [[Abg. Young: Loud soldiers!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It’s not about the soldiers now, it’s about the framework conditions that are offered to these soldiers!]] But it is also about our soldiers, Mr Scheibner, that you should know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, you should do something for the soldiers!]] I would like to add three things here, with particular emphasis on what our federal army and the officers and soldiers do in particular. At first, there is the assistance of the German army at the borders. This assistance is crucial for border security, for the border protection of the Austrian borders. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But pay him the interior resort!]] And you should probably remember it, because you say again and again: Foreigners out! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not what we say!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But pay it to someone else!]] In particular, these soldiers ensure that fewer foreigners come to us, namely illegally, to us. [[Abg. Scheibner: My God! We want the costs to be reduced.]] This border control, combined with the individual powers of the executive, is an essential factor. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But pay it the interior resort! You won't mind!]] 44 000 people have been stopped and exactly these 44 000 would have come into our country, perhaps with a few exceptions. This was prevented because the German army, with 160,000 soldiers over the past few years, has carried out this border control and has driven 39 million kilometres in this context, with the soldiers being replaced 92 times. During this period alone, some 34,000 illegals from 92 countries of the world were seized by the Federal Army. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you go here and convert it, this is also a saving for the Austrian Republic, an essential saving. If we had to replace the 2 000 German soldiers who were on average employed with executive officials, this would be a very, very essential commitment. Force disaster performance: I would just like to point out that last year the Austrian population – and here I refer particularly to the Lower Austrian population – was very grateful for the use of the Austrian federal army and is still there. In this context, a warm thanks in the name of these Lower Austrians to the soldiers who have been in service here, to the officers who have led these missions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But not only domestically, but also abroad, our soldiers have put their husbands. I have already pointed out that our Austrian soldiers are ambassadors of humanity, and we are proud of these ambassadors.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13636	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13657	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sauer is right when he says that our soldiers deserve the highest thanks and highest recognition for the achievements they perform. But these services do not do them because of the framework conditions that the Federal Government creates for them, but despite the framework conditions they find in the area of national defence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today we have experienced the test run of the new speaker of the ÖVP. Dear friend Kummerer, I think... Murauer. [[Call the ÖVP:Murauer!]] Excuse me, I have to get used to the name only after Mr Maitz seems to be preparing for a new career. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What would you recommend me?]] Mr Murauer, I would advise you, go out into the barracks more often, look at them, then you can't give such a foreign speech, because in the barracks it actually looks quite different than you did in your speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gaál said that the coalition would never have intended to narrow the military associations in any way in their performance. But I fell into the hand of a letter by Dr. Schaffer, Chief of the Intent Dance Service, President of the Military Associations, who writes: "In this context, it must be noted that everything has been done for years on the part of the Department of Defence to liquidate the principle of military law, financial, factual and defence policy." – There is nothing to add to it. I cannot therefore imagine that Mr Gaál, in particular, says that we do not want to harm the militia, we want to strengthen the militia instead of weakening it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The National Defence Chapter has been one of the most sad in the budget negotiations for years. In the meantime, the attempts to adapt the Federal Government's mandate and thus the necessary human and material equipment to the financial resources have become quite grotesque. We have never been taken very seriously in the defence of our territory in the framework of armed neutrality, but in the meantime, I am afraid, we have really lost the claim to be taken seriously. The decay process of the equipment and the decay process on the buildings are insurmountable. Some figures, some of the relations I would like to present, would actually have to make all the alarm bells ring, because the relation of the figures can no longer be voted. If the Ministry has 1 450 plan posts and we have a total of about 35 000 people in the army, this is a relation of 1 : 24. A soldier in the ministry is facing 24 soldiers outside the units. Or: If, on the basis of a request from the Minister of Economic Affairs, we find out that 1,500 officials in the Federal Building Administration face about 35 000 soldiers, then we have a relation of 1 : 23, 23 soldiers, that is, an official of the Federal Building Administration. Or let's take a look at military music. We have about 500 military musicians in Austria. If we compare the number of basic military servants with that, then we have a relation of 1: 20, so on 20 soldiers comes a musician. I believe that these relations simply do not vote anymore, and I think that, as Mr Ofner has already said, the Indians are missing. The relations are no longer right. The organization no longer corresponds to a pyramid, the organization is no longer right. Or to the fleet: If you look into the halls, these halls are empty. Now we've been told: Let's do a pool formation, so all vehicles belong to all units together. But no one feels responsible anymore, no one feels responsible. Maintenance and care conditions are very poor. It would be much more to say – the time has unfortunately run out – to the state of the sub-official framework, to the problem of aging the sub-official framework, whose members have no chance of being transferred to civil administration. There are plenty of other things to say. Given the scarcity and the lack of money from the other ministries, as has already been mentioned, to the Ministry of State Defense, I would like to make a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] At least the money that foreign operations, and the money that the assistants cost, will flow back to the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! With the Heeresbereich-Neu-Neu-Neu you have made policy of helicopters: There was a big talk organised, dust edified, the soldiers were unsure of how to post a press release of 17th century. January 1998 under the title "Not Operation in a Sick Patient". The whole thing has been going on since January 1998, but despite this condition, Mr Murauer speaks of motivation and motivated cadres. This policy of helicopters will no longer be possible for a long time, because the helicopter will no longer be operational due to the expired pickerl. The co-operation in the coalition works great, but not for the welfare of the federal army, but rather for its destruction. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13741	The motion for a resolution, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl is provided with sufficient support in accordance with the rules of business and is involved in the negotiations. Mr Antoni has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13766	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my short contribution to the debate, I will focus mainly on the new training concept of the Austrian Federal Government, and I can assure you that the Socialist Group can in principle agree with this concept. We believe it is important that the increasing demands on the level of training of the framework staff be recognised in good time and that appropriate measures are being taken. In particular, increasing and expanding quality, professionalism and flexibility is of great importance to our federal army in connection with the ever-increasing international tasks and challenges. Highly qualified training facilities in the form of academies, specialist and weapons-gathering schools are essential for the development and further education of cadres. I also believe that the organization and management of academies and schools as now independent educational institutions are correct and forward-looking. This measure is expected to facilitate the coordination and coordination of teaching and training content, the faster use of specific management measures, the further development and enhancement of educational skills of teachers, and the increased involvement of foreign languages in training. The sum of these measures is intended to contribute to improving quality and ensuring the quality of the training offer, but above all to the success of training. This seems to be particularly important in the context of which our colleague Tychtl has reported today, namely that 50 percent of the rate of complaint is in the field of training. Ladies and gentlemen! The detailed organisational structure for education and training within the Federal Army is known, and it is therefore not necessary to go further. However, I would like to say that the restructurings referred to are intended to reduce the number of planning posts and to reduce the organization. Finally, let me make a comment on the planned closure of the Steyr site. As our spokesperson Gaál has already noted, there is really no plausible reason to close the Kaserne Steyr, just 20 kilometres away from Enns, but at the same time to enlarge and further expand the HeeresUnteroffersakademie in Enns. I fully endorse this view. The Federal Minister very much praised Mr Murauer for his commitment to Steyr, so I am surprised that there is no death word from Mr Murauer's mouth. [[Abg. Murauer: Because you don't listen enough, Mr. Cot!]] I was present, my colleague. [[Abg. Murauer: Today!]] Back to the real problem. The capacity of the army sub-official school in Enns is not sufficient to ensure that training as a sub-official and courses for further and further training are maintained at the same time. It is therefore necessary to take internal organisational measures that do not cause additional costs but reduce costs. We Socialists therefore propose to leave Steyr's location and to divide the army sub-official school into two institutes, similar to the military academy: an institute for the training of sub-officials – this should continue to be in Enns – and an institute for further and further training, including foreign language training for sub-officials in Steyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13816	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Chief. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13837	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Antoni, I would like to help you a little bit about the jumps, because I was at the time with the German army at the local battery Rutzing, which has been part of Steyr. I remember very well that the then Social Democratic mayor of Steyr called for no artillery units to be stationed in Steyr, because the equipment at that time was too expensive and too loud. We were "divided" back then. The army also had no brigade artillery department. All these are failures of the self-elected social democratic policy of the city of Steyr. I'm glad you discovered your love for the city of Steyr today, but please stick to the historical truth: At the time, their parish fathers in Steyr did not want the federal army in Steyr and they have driven it out. In my opinion, you now have an unsuitable concept to divide the army in two parts, perhaps to get the location of Steyr. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think that today we are trying to forget past mistakes made solely at the expense of the federal army, against the ratio and against any military planning in the era Kreisky in Steyr. They believe that today's Members no longer know how it really was at that time. If you do not believe me, Mr Antoni, please inform your local staff representatives. You will insist that I am right and that no word does not correspond to the facts! We, the artillerians, have suffered from the fact that our department was set up in Gratkorn; there is now also being locked up. 84 million schillings have been deprived of the army because of political considerations to win in Steyr municipal council elections at the time. This is not military policy, as I imagine it, Mr Antoni, and you will not be able to please it here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also believe that you, Mr Federal Minister, should not be beautiful. They have not enforced the federal army's budget and have again had to accept that the military budget, as measured by the needs of our federal army, is clearly behind those requirements that would be necessary in the interests of the external security of the Republic of Austria. In today's debate, the example of border controls has already mentioned the fact that, contrary to all the requirements, the truth of costs is not raised within the security area in this Federal Government. Of the cost of border use, which amounts to 400 million schilling, at least 200 million schilling, according to the episode 3 of the "Wehrpolitische Information der Österreichische Officiiersgesellschaft" of March, would be at least 200 million schilling, as the officer's company believes, to ascribe to the interior resort and refund it to the army. I do not want to judge one sum or another, but I think, Federal Minister, it would be good for the army in the current situation in connection with this "security billion", also in the sense of the cost-effectiveness of getting the money due to the army. You should not leave this money in other resorts too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this regard, you have clearly not enforced that I would have expected more enforcement. In connection with the women of the Federal Government, Mr Tychtl has rightly mentioned a number of aspects concerning the concept of military ancestrality. Federal Minister! The great media excitement in connection with the Corps in Graz arose only because your departments there were unable to set up a San-tube in good time, where women were forced into the federal army, so the women had to be sent to Graz with bladders at their feet or with flu. They could not be maintained on site, so the media vortex was created at all. I also say the following to you, Minister of State: You don't need to be surprised, because Divisional Plienegger of the Corps in Graz was at the time unable to modernize the army agency in Klagenfurt at the Ministry as a responsible official. He has redesigned the good concept of medical chamber president Dr. Leitner, this well-known emergency physician, the Heeressanheitsanstalt in Klagenfurt after a leasing system and set up a center for emergency medicine in Klagenfurt. However, when this possibility no longer existed, he jumped on this train. And this very Mr Plienegger is now again responsible for this in Graz. I'm not wondering! I do not wonder that in the case of one and the same master, there is nothing going on in the ministry, in Graz and again in the ministry and now in Graz due to his obviously disturbed relationship with the army. I would like to ask you, Minister: Look After what's going on there, perhaps you'll put Mr. Divisionary Plienegger to the side of someone who is actually competent and who implements a concept for the army area for the south of Austria and for our garrisons, so that the number of complaints of our basic defence servants at the Complaint Commission is falling and our basic defence servants are getting a medical improvement. There's something else to be used abroad and to do it. Your budget: 39 000 Austrian federal army members have received not only the Nobel Peace Prize, but also in a positive way for the international image of our German army abroad excellently presented their husband or wife, when I think of medical staff in Kurdistan or even now in Bosnia-Herzegovina. But one thing is shocking from my point of view, Mr Federal Minister: that in the answer to the question you have admitted that there are no budgetary appropriations for pension payments for 1999 again, which means that the promise to see foreign operations no longer as retirement periods, but at last to ensure that pensionable periods are properly guaranteed as a pensionable period, is only an empty word aid again. On the occasion of the debate on foreign intervention, the Federal Chancellor here promised from this government bank that he would accept this social question. In the 1999 budget, however, no schilling is planned to finally address this social question satisfactorily for those who have guaranteed the reputation of Austria and the German army in the past. This is confession policy, the implementation into reality, however, in practice is missing. And that is really a social policy scandal to this 1999 budget!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13924	I call Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e13946	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to follow this debate: If you hear an opposition speaker from the FPÖ, it sounds like: Too few Indians!, one hears a speaker from the government partner SPÖ, then one learns: There are too many Indians! and you can hear... – Deputies Gaál! [[Abg. Gaál: Where did you hear that? Where did you hear that?]] I heard you personally, on TV, when you claimed there were too many Indians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Too many heads!]] – And if you hear the greens, it says: We don't need Indians. Another thing: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It does not surprise me if, for example, the FPÖ repeatedly asserts that it would be too little capital or that it would be too little budget resources in use. Granted, we would wish for more, yes, of course! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're not a member of the opposition!]] I do not understand, however, that Members of our government are going to speak here and call for some sort of vehement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! If you go out here today and make a request that the military budget be increased by 3 billion schilling – you will be amazed! – then we will all agree! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Jung: Please agree to our request, colleague. Easy to talk – typical ÖVP!]] Mr Jung! No, not "light talk", but you know very well: We are committed to a government agreement, and this is what we are committed to, and that is what we want to comply with. – I did not speak to the FPÖ, but to the Social Democrats, and you should have distinguished that. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say the following: I don't know in which barracks all those who have been waiting here with the worst criticism today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] I am very glad, Mr Gaál, that we have two hunters in Freistadt, and I would like to invite you to visit the city of Kaserne once to convince yourself personally of how much it is all right and how excellent the framework conditions there are for our basic military servants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that both the officers and the people of the Federal Building Administration are doing their best to keep the barracks as good as possible, as far as the funds are being provided for it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fassleven, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has for eight years had to be criticised by hüben and over, but imagine: He's the longest minister of defence in the Second Republic! [[Abg. Gaál: This is a time!]] – This is not a time appearance, but, Mr Gaál, he must have proved himself particularly well in order to be able to survive in the hail of this criticism. – Congratulations, Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14065	Mrs Hagenhofer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14087	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Two thirds of your budget, Minister of Defense, is blocked, so to speak, by personnel expenditure. This shows that there is little financial room for the necessary modernisation of the equipment, but also little financial scope – if any – for computer installations that are simply necessary for a well-functioning organisation in the present time. But this also shows that with the given structures best use, i.e. effectiveness, for the army, for the staff, but also for the present servants can be achieved. For me, the best use and effectiveness are important, and I would therefore ask you, Minister of Defence, to think again about the following: With its eight barracks locations, Upper Austria is, for example, strongly underrepresented towards Lower Austria, and in my knowledge and experience, 1 000 Upper Austrians have to be trained every year in Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Sure because the minister is from Lower Austria!]] The question therefore arises whether, despite everything, the Trollmann-Kaserne in Steyr can be fed to a different use than the one you propose. Because the solution you propose for Steyr is a transitional solution. During the reconstruction of the army internship academy in Enns, courses are to be held in Steyr. When the reconstruction is completed, however, this is the out of the Trollmann-Kaserne in Steyr. And we cannot agree with this in view of the fact that every year 1 000 young men from Upper Austria have to go to another federal state – in other words, to Lower Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14127	I call Mr Grabner. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14149	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's statements on the 1999 national defence budget, I do not want to deal so much with general matters, but rather with some of the points of this federal proposal, which I believe should be discussed in terms of its primary importance. In this context, I would like to make the following specific points: First of all, I am referring to the exodus of various of the Federal Army's outdated weapons systems. The problems associated with the disposal of these weapons systems are a long-term cause for concern in the population, as this matter concerns all citizens throughout Austria. The following legitimate questions arise in the context of the related security aspect: How many tons of old ammunition or no more necessary ammunition are in the stock of the federal army today? How is the disposal of the ammunition in question carried out, and what long-term financial costs are associated with it for the Republic of Austria? What specific items of the 1999 Federal Budget forecast are planned for these disposal measures? In order to ensure the rapid solution process, procedures must be applied in this respect, which meet today's environmental standards in all respects, as well as economic efficiency and, last but not least, the necessary safety technical requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, in this waste disposal process, all the risks to the population and any potential for pollution must be completely excluded. As a second point of my statement, I would like to discuss the most recent issue in all the media, which has also been discussed today, "Service of women in the Federal Army". In view of the first experience gained by the competent authorities in practice, my questions are: How many women have so far reported to the Federal Army for service? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What is this anti-female?]] How many did basic training take place? How many have been eliminated until now? In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, I am interested in the latest facts about military sports, performance sports: How many top athletes have used the options offered so far and signed in? Mr Bundesminister, another question: How many horses are active in the federal army? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the liberals.]] How many horses does the federal army have? Yes, these are very high costs! We always regret how much money is spent on how many people and what costs are incurred by the Austrian army, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, that's only a very small amount, but on the other hand, we're yelling, we don't have any money. And that, I think, must be said explicitly once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the existing budget framework, I would like to strengthen the demands of the Social Democrats for the preparation of a long-term investment plan and for the adoption of procurement priorities.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14214	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14236	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the last speaker on the chapter on military affairs, I would like to refer briefly to the security concept that we have discussed several times today. Ladies and gentlemen! Our concept of security is a more comprehensive one, and I believe it is very well justified – even if Mr Maitz does not see it quite that way – to see the interior, the justice and the national defence as well as the Federal Minister Edlinger in one. I would like to add this to the customs duty, which certainly plays a role here. Mr Scheibner. We're always worried, the potential aggressor is back at the door. I would be pleased if you would come down here sometime and call this potential aggressor, which Austria must fear, by name and say which aggressor you mean. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are enough studies to do this!]] I do not see any potential aggressor standing in front of Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why he's potential, Mr. Cot!]] Our threat situation is another – even this is already happening several times today –: It is the threat situation of migration, tow and organized crime. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're a military soldier!]] And these threat scenarios are mainly located in the inner resort and are to be treated in the inner resort. It is therefore quite understandable that 900 million of a billion schillings go to the interior area because there is a higher need there. I believe that we should at all be thinking about this box, to which a budget debate naturally leads, because we deal with the budget chapter, say goodbye and come to a greater perspective – not only in Austria but also globally. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: They're the wrong boxes!]] It's so easy to draw the famous box, the NATO box, the other box over the Russian Federation, and the third box over Southeast Asia, as my colleague Maitz likes to do with these pictures of the Republic. Just, life's not that simple. These limits are blurring. I was surprised by Mr Spindelegger, who does not see any solutions in the European Union at all to come to a Europe. Mr Spindelegger! CFSP: no term? Petersberg: no term? Amsterdam: no term? These approaches are very likely to be included here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You mentioned in your speech that the Americans are necessary. No question the Americans in NATO are necessary. The Americans in NATO's new will be necessary. But I also ask you to look into the story: It has not been that long since, I think, it was President Reagan, who has stimulated and also operated that America should withdraw from this task as a world security politician and be confined to American interests. I would remind you that France has left NATO and has gone its own way. Even today, I think, it is worth considering how this Europe might defend itself without America. Why without America? There is known to be an American economic block. Unlike this American economic block, we have created the European Union. These economic blocks compete with each other, no question. Nevertheless, we are putting these competing economic blocks with must as the only objective that we can imagine, or that the ÖVP can imagine itself, a common military team. That's still to be rethinked. This will have to be the basis for discussion in the coming months, and will have to be decided by the people in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is still very necessary and quite good to negotiate and operate an active foreign policy based on neutrality. I ask my coalition partner intensively: Stay here within the framework of the Constitution, the Constitutional Laws! It makes no sense if the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, the clubman, with him Spindelegger, Maitz and Murauer, say goodbye to neutrality and stop doing this active foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: SPÖ also has no active foreign policy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say one more word. In my opinion, there has been a great lack of expression in today's debate: We have heard so often: "the army", we have very rarely heard: "our army". Our army has earned more self-confidence through the elected representatives of the people. Our army is quite able to meet the requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14339	Mr Fassleven, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14361	I would like to refer very briefly to a statement that has affected an employee of our home, because it is a particularly qualified employee. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I I appreciate not only your general opinions, but also your comments in detail, because they are always marked by seriosity, even though you are a member of the opposition. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Oh, you!]] However, I strongly reject her statement in the case of the Heeressanheitsanstalt Klagenfurt concerning Mr Korpskommandant Plieenegger, because from the beginning of his work as a corps commander he has made the most of his efforts to reach a solution with regard to the Heeressanityanstalt Klagenfurt and has strongly pushed forward and finally enforced solutions. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] If there have been delays here, then because, after the closure of the army agency in Klagenfurt, there was a possibility of cooperation with the state hospital in Carinthia, which worked perfectly and whose continuation would have been our wish, but unfortunately this was not possible, so that we then examined other possibilities on my own personal instruction, which has created a time-lag. I take responsibility for that personally. Plienegger has been most committed to finding a solution at all stages. If it finally came more quickly than originally expected, then it is above all his merit. I just wanted to make that clear on this occasion.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14408	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. The Special Rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the XII advisory group of the Federal proposal for the year 1999. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal estimates and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 1100 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The Advisory Group XII has been adopted by a majority. I suggest, in the sense of § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to be put to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XII of the Federal Financial Act. Is there any objection against this procedure? – I can assume from the assumption that no objection will be raised. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades concerning the increase in the LV budget for the performance of the tasks of the Austrian Federal Army. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Advisory Group IV Chapter 11: Internal (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14476	We come to the negotiation of the consultative group IV: Inside. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. We are beginning the debate with a speech by Mrs Partik-Pablé. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14505	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mr Minister, your behaviour in the Committee on Budgets has really surprised me very much, and that is positive. It is a little difficult for me to admit that, because you belong to a group which has been very scandalous and extremely inaccurate against us in the last few days. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: Don't be sad!]] They're laughing. I think you have forgotten all that has been said in this inconspicuously, insulting speech. I know you're always going through the plenary with your pointing finger, but then, for example, Mr Kostelka, we're the synonym of unfair machinations! And Mr Häupl believes slander is the fundamental principle of the Freedom Party's policy! [[Congratulations to Members of the Tegischer and Bures.]] There have already been words for which you are... – And there you clap to that too! After what Mr Fischer said as a result of the last week of the sitting, I think it is embarrassing that you will now also praise me if I tell you what you said. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In these diffamations, the ÖVP has been in your tow as always: Mr Khol and so on – I do not want to warm this up at all. [[Interlocutors Dietachmayr and Dr. Mertel.]] I know you don't like to hear that, but I think it's important that you're always reminded so that you take your own nose and don't just point your finger at us. [[Abg. Seisinger: Do you believe what you say?]] But, Minister-in-Office of the Council, you are happy to distance yourself from your own group more often. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (a newspaper article showing) And you find this ridiculous? Cite that! Cite that!]] What did you say? That's ridiculous? Would you like me to quote more, Mrs Mertel? Unfortunately, Mr President Fischer is not here, but you have heard that too. I can really quote you even more if you really want to. But there you are always very quickly offended. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: (a edition of the "Kurier" to keep up) You can quote that!]] I now deal with the Minister. Mr Minister, you have often shown that you do not agree with the behaviour of your group or your socialist government colleagues. I have observed this when this scandalous appearance of Mr Mühl in the Burgtheater was discussed here in Parliament. We have subsequently debated why it was possible for the child-sleeping Mühl to open a stage with the knowledge of the Minister of Science, with the knowledge of Mrs Gehrer. Mr Bundeskanzler Klima is here sitting, completely untouched, Mr Bartenstein, completely untouched, Mrs Prammer, completely untouched by the fact that the children's mühl has received an official opportunity to appear. Only you, Mr Minister, have stood up and said that you are distanced from this horrific appearance. We have counted this to you very much, Minister-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We really liked this, and I think your group can take an example of it. I only hope that our recognition and sympathy will not harm you, Minister. For it is dictated in your party that you should limit the liberals and that there is never anything to admit from what the Freedom Party condemns, and so on. I only hope that you will maintain your behaviour despite the criticism you are likely to bring. And now to the Committee, Minister. I said your behavior impressed me positively, really: I have been in Parliament for 15 years, but I have not yet experienced such an honest and open debate on the budget. No one minister – I have already experienced several, not only in the interior, but also otherwise – of red and black was willing to discuss everything so openly. You didn't keep anything behind the mountain. That really impressed me. You have to remember again and again that the opposition has little opportunity to provide information. One of them is the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, another is to make written questions. They have respected our right to information and, as has been said, this positive statement here today, although the whole situation, the climate directed against us, would not justify praising a socialist minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Minister, you have also played with open cards in the Committee on Budgets, where you may be uncomfortable. They have admitted, for example, that the development of foreign crime is really dramatic. They have said that the sum of foreign suspects has been rising blatantly since the 1980s. In the 1980s, foreign suspects were present in Austria in an order of about 8 percent. Then there was an increase to 20 percent, and so far the percentage of foreign suspects has increased to 33 percent. This is always denied by your party friends. Their party friends do not even want to be discussed. Today, when I allowed myself to ask the question whether it would be useful at all to keep foreign unemployed in Austria, Mr Feurstein suddenly became afraid. He got scared of me just because I have a different opinion. If we are already talking about culture in Parliament, then we should actually talk about whether we can even express another opinion at all, without immediately being overshadowed by the suspicion that we are an extremely dangerous person. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have also admitted to the Committee, Mr Minister, which I very much liked, that the equipment has not only improved by showing and pressing the opposition. Just I know because I really moved from guard room to guard room, from Gendarmerieposten to Gendarmerieposten and always told the Minister where it is everywhere. God Be Thanks to all of us security spokesmen, we really managed to do something here, and I am pleased that you recognize the performance of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You'll be waiting for the negative. Of course, I also have a little criticism of you, Minister. Not only do you belong to the Socialist Group bother me, but it also bothers me that you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Why Look You so serious? Are you afraid I've praised you too much? [[Federal Minister Mag. Schlögl: I just don't know myself!]] You don't know each other. So I praised too much. Minister! In my opinion, one of your mistakes is already very serious, that you see, recognize, but then do not act, but only announce. You have said that you do not want to be a minister of announcement, but, unfortunately, you are God's, because you are not doing anything at last in crucial areas of things that you notice, which you create as a maltreatment. It just can't go on like this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One example: foreign suspects with a share of 33 percent. They have said that this should be pushed off rigorously. You have also said that you will do something about the hunger strikers. – Have made it But you are not, unfortunately, Mr. Minister! They have, for example, been alarmed in the previous year that foreigners seeking asylum often become criminal. You've announced a "action sharp". – But nothing has become out of this "action". We have only recently complained about the failure to deal with the hunger strikers. That, I mean, is your big mistake: Announce – and then do nothing! Unfortunately, God is your greatest mistake. I hope that you will be freed from it. In any case, I will do everything I can to help you, and I will keep reminding you that this is your biggest mistake, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was a threat!]] Since the speaking time is almost complete – with so much praise I have wasted my entire speaking time – I would like to say in principle to the budget that I can't afford him anything positive, and that is not because in reality the figures of the previous year are being written almost in the same way. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stadler]] The whole is a repetition of the 1998 budget. There are no impulses from this budget at all. And just as in the previous year, you estimate expenditure too low and revenue too high. With this budget, I fear, becoming They simply don't get to grips with the really big problems in Austria. The following, Minister-in-Office of the Council: Please get used to keeping your promises! They promised last year that there will be no reduction in personnel. They have promised that there will be no overtime. Now – obviously, because In the interior area, you have to wear the shine and glamour of the EU Presidency – you have already brought up an overtime reduction to the executive. I can't do that! The staff is so close that further reduction of overtime is not possible. I would ask you to revise your policy in the sense of my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14703	I call Mr Leikam. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Partik-Pablé, I admit that today you have really surprised us. I've been in this house for 12 years, but I really haven't seen anything like that here. From today on, the expression "fruitful Helene" is really appropriate. This praise really did you well. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It may be. Regarding your criticism of the budget against that of the previous year: The 1998 budget, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, was an excellent budget for the interior resort: with a plus of 1.7 billion schilling from 1997 to 1998. The 1999 budget, which is in place today, includes almost half a billion schillings more than the 1998 budget. If we compare both budgets, then, I believe, this criticism is not justified, because compared to the 1997 budget, over 2 billion shillings are more for security in our country, and they are also spent. I mean, all of us should be very, very happy together. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== April 1995 was an important date for our country. On that day, the Act of Accession to the Schengen Treaty was signed, three years later, on 1 January. In April 1998, the Schengen maturity of Austria came fully into force. I therefore mention this in detail, because there have been many debates and very few have actually believed that the Ministry of the Interior will succeed until 1. In fact, the provisions of the Schengen Treaty are to be complied with in April 1998. But it was possible, and this was a great achievement of the entire interior, the Minister of the Interior, but of course also the Minister of Finance, because for this commitment, for the Schengen maturity almost 3 billion schillings were spent in these three years. Today it can be said that Schengen is fulfilled that officials on the EU's external borders are doing excellent work and that this border control, through this border service Austria, has once again made a lot safer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The 1999 budget is a continuation of this success story in Austrian security policy. I have already said that almost half a billion schillings are more included in the 1999 budget than in the 1998 budget. It has basically not surprised me so much that today Mrs. Partik-Pablé has made a positive statement on the country's security policy, because I am still in good memory – it is only a few months ago – that the Freedom Party has launched a poster action throughout Austria with the very meaningful words: "Austria is a safe home." – There is really nothing to add to it. We've always said that. In all the debates here in Parliament, we have pointed out that Austria is a safe country, one of the safest countries in the world and that we find a safe home with a very good quality of life, but also with good internal security. This knowledge has just lasted a little longer with the liberals, but it is present. All of us are happy, and that is only to be welcomed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In July 1998 Austria will take over the Presidency in the European Union for the first time, and the Minister of the Interior will also have a major role to play in this Presidency. Over the course of these six months, he will have a very comprehensive programme to discuss with his colleagues from the other European countries in Austria. I am firmly convinced that in these six months, Minister Schlögl will be able to achieve again a number of decisive, important measures to further improve security in our country. For example, extensive preparatory work is on the agenda for further fight against international organised crime. The legal, human, financial and organisational conditions for the operation of Europol are to be created during the Austrian Presidency. This is about further improving international police cooperation, and issues of migration under Austrian Presidency will be discussed in detail and solutions will also be found. If you look at all of this, I think I can say that we are very moved months ahead. I am sure that what is to be done here will only be possible if all the forces are working together, just as this budget debate seems to have been taking place today. Ladies and gentlemen! Gendarmerie and police have made positive contributions to the democratic development of our country in the Second Republic. Austria is still a safe country, and this fact, of course, has many positive effects on the whole country. Not least because of the good internal security in our country millions of tourists come to our country and feel comfortable here. And that should remain the same in the future. I should like to point out that in a few days, i.e. ==References====External links== This is certainly a reason for joy and a reason to celebrate. If I have pointed out that police and Gendarmerie, particularly in the Second Republic, have made great and positive contributions to the preservation of our democracy, then this anniversary may also involve an invitation to all those who have not yet done so, namely to visit the exhibition "150 years of federal army" in shipyards. She's worth seeing, and you shouldn't let her go. But another institution, a very important and good establishment of the Bundesgendarmerie, celebrates a anniversary in these days, which must also be pointed out in such a debate when it comes to the development for the year 1999: The Gendarmerie operational command in Wiener Neustadt celebrates its 20th anniversary in these days. This too is a cause for joy, because the Gendarmerie mission command enjoys worldwide recognition. Wherever it really becomes brilliant and weapons violence is in play, it is these really courageous officials who come to use here. I believe that this anniversary should also be celebrated in good form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me to make a few brief remarks on the budget and on what Mrs Partik-Pablé has said about overtime and planning. I'll give you the right to: In the last two years, it has not been quite easy for officials to deal with their tasks, because the interior area was also involved in budget consolidation. There was a need to reduce plans. But I say immediately that, in total, almost 2,000 officials have been more employed in the field of the Ministry of the Interior for five years. There's been a shift of officials. On the one hand, there have been plans in the executive, police and gendarmerie, but on the other hand, these planning posts have been created and extended considerably in the border service. From 1988 to 1998 – i.e. over the last ten years – there has been an increase of almost 4,000 plantations in the executive. This is a remarkable success that has been achieved here. It is to the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Finance that they are more generous in terms of security than perhaps in other areas. In June, 250 border arms will come from school. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website January 1999 planned – to train another 250 young people into the border arms, who have completed their training in March 1999 and are assigned to the individual departments. Then the unloved allocation from the West to the East will only be necessary to a small extent, and a part of the overtime burden will no longer be necessary. This is certainly very positive. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we are also pleased that the greatest crime in history, namely the series of letter bombs, could not only be clarified, but also that the act is already pending and that the indices, if one can believe the documents, are such that there will also be a corresponding condemnation. This too was a great success of the Austrian executive. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I would like to thank all the officials in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Gendarmerie and the individual departments in the ministry as a whole for their not easy task and encourage them to take our country's security policy as seriously as they have done in the past – for the benefit of our citizens. In this sense too, Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for the good security policy in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14846	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14870	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! If we are discussing the 1999 budget of the Ministry of the Interior, it is fair to say that we are dealing with a positive development here. I think this is absolutely pleasing, and it is also true that the Minister for the Interior has succeeded in working accordingly within the Federal Government for the interests of internal security, and he has been able to represent the interests of the executive accordingly. For the first time, and since two budgets respectively, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior exceeds the budget of the Ministry of Defence. This is good for the field of internal security, although I must say that I regret this fact in the field of national defence, but the Austrian People's Party is politically responsible for this. Therefore, there is in principle already an temptation somewhere to agree this time to the budget for the Ministry of the Interior, because in fact sufficient resources are available for the execution of the mandate of the executive. [[Abg. Kiss: You're just talking about temptation! What are you gonna do?]] That's the temptation you've been listening to, dear, my colleague Kiss. For the first time, there is sufficient resources to fulfil the mandate of the executive. [[Abg. Kiss: I'm curious if you resist the temptation!]] The work in recent years, including the work of the opposition – Mrs Collaborative Partik-Pablé has already mentioned this – and the never-tired use of the security spokesmen of the opposition have contributed to the fact that there have been positive changes here. In Austria there is a quite modern technical equipment in the field of executives, although there is a need to make improvements in the coming years, especially in the telecommunications sector, and to make the necessary investments here. There is sufficient staff; if you look at the international comparison, it is true that Austria has the largest density of executive officials in Italy and Portugal in terms of 100 000 inhabitants. In my view, therefore, there is no need for a call for more personnel, but it will be necessary to use existing staff more efficiently in the future. In this context, I should like to remind the Minister of the Interior that, for example, a statement by the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, on the question of security in the capital, is known that only 3 700 of the 6 000 executive officials in Vienna are on the road, i.e. in the field of foreign service. – That's just over 60 percent, that's about two thirds. A third, about 38 percent are not on stress, i.e. they are used elsewhere, where the number of executive officials in training is a rather small one and therefore it is really important to use structural measures, through organizational improvements fewer people in the interior and a lot more people present in the public and in the outside. This means that reforms are necessary here; structural reforms are necessary – I will come back later on. However, there are sufficient staff, and there is no reason at all to demand a strengthening of the executive. Unfortunately, I still see weaknesses in the area of executives, especially in the implementation of existing financial resources. I fear and see a certain danger that the financial resources available in principle will not be used optimally. At this point I would like to make a few examples, Minister of State. I come to the border service to speak: Yes, the establishment of the border army was an excellent achievement of the responsible officers. This should and must also be said here with all clarity, but it would have been preferable for me personally that the border army would have been ready to use in the past. Failures in the political leadership, in the leadership of this department, were the reason why the order for the establishment of this border army was given so late. It was clear that, with membership of the European Union, we must also meet the requirements of the Schengen Treaty with the signing of the Schengen Agreement. Therefore, it would have been necessary to start building a border army more quickly and earlier. Unfortunately, it is still the fact that in Austria we have a border control which, in order to meet the Schengen criteria, is only possible in conjunction with the use of our federal army. I think – I say that again – this commitment of the Federal Army, already going into the ninth year, is not in conformity with the constitution. It is not the federal army's task to carry out security police tasks. In this regard, the Constitution and also our federal constitution stand exclusively in front of an assistance of the German army to maintain peace and order within. This can only be a short-term support of the responsible executive body, the Ministry of the Interior, if it is an assistant service – and after some time the respective ministry must be able to carry out these tasks alone. It is therefore high time that the German army had to end its border operation, even if it had to be said that the German army was perfectly aware of these tasks, and that this brought a sense of security to the population. Mr Kiss, I know that you will get out of here again and say that I am against protecting the population. However, it is not the federal army's task to carry out this security police task. Our constitution clearly assigns this task to the security executive, so it has to do with the police, it has to do the border army – and not the federal army, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also think it is unacceptable for the Minister of the Interior to say that the German army will be on the border for so long as Hungary is not a member of the European Union. And he also said that if the German army was no longer available for assistance, he, the Minister of the Interior, would need more than 1,500 planning posts. Federal Minister! I've already said it: In the European comparison, we have a high density of executive officials, so to speak, and there is the possibility, by means of appropriate structural measures within the executive, through the possibility of taking over, for example, from customs guards in the area of border arms, through better coordination and coordination, the necessary personnel conditions, so that the executive can certainly be able to carry out this task alone. I would also expect you to be so fair as to recover the costs incurred by this German army's assistance in accordance with the department of defence. After all, this is half a billion schillings, which are now made available for over eight years – even if it is the same pot as it is, so to speak, the total budget. But then it would be only fair that the area responsible for this would also bear the necessary costs. Because those funds used for this are missing in the area of national defence. Then there could also be a modernisation, an improvement in the federal army's equipment. This is also a task to be undertaken by the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! Another point I would like to address is the question of structural reforms. Structural reforms – the reform of the state police, the reform of the criminal police – are, as it were, almost an infinite history. Minister Lösnak has set up initiatives, then Minister One came, and now we have Minister Schlögl. As far as it is recognizable, however, one has not come beyond announcements. There were no real results so far, but the question is still open: Should the State Police also be able to perform appropriate intelligence tasks? – I believe that if we want to have an efficient state police force, please, with clear and sustainable parliamentary democratic control of this institution. It remains open to structural reform. There are at most ideas, but no real concrete steps or measures. The same applies to the area of criminal police. It is a bit bold, something strange, if the chief responsible for the executive, namely Director-General Sika, suddenly demands that the criminal police be reformed. Federal Minister! It is in the responsibility of the Director-General for Public Security to make reforms that are necessary, to take the necessary steps, in agreement with those who are politically responsible – and not to wait so long for a call for assistance from secondary departments, such as the Security Directorate of Vienna, which has rightly addressed problems and where it is high time to take reform steps. I also believe that, in principle, the idea of creating a corresponding office, according to the example of the Federal Criminal Office, should be implemented. A subordinate department should be set up, and those institutions previously organized in the central office should be broken down. Then we have a slender and slender centre, which is responsible for the management, which is responsible for overall planning, and the operational area can be structured and organized subordinately. There is a need for action in this respect. We expect you, Minister of State, to take the necessary steps to ensure that the financial resources you now have are used and used to a sufficient extent. Third and last point: the planned Security Academy. That too is an infinite story. – Mr Kiss smiles again. I regret that we have not yet reached a concrete solution. In this respect, there is also a commitment, a promise made by the Minister of the Interior – and I assume that the Minister of the Interior will keep his word – but it is urgently necessary to start with it at last. And it is also urgently necessary to create the legal basis for this. Mr Kiss! Here I expect – you are also in favour of setting up a security academy – that we come to a broad consensus here in the National Council, and I also expect the idea of an advisory board to be abandoned by the Austrian People's Party. A councillor, Mr Kiss, does not really create the influence you might want from the ÖVP. A advisory board is not a helpful tool. There are no such advisory boards in other educational institutions either. I would like to look at how you would react if, for example, the demand for the Minister of Defence was to create an advisory board for the National Defence Academy or a advisory board for the military academy. – Therefore, we do not need any advisory board for the Security Academy. I see only one approach on the part of the Austrian People's Party to take part in this area. I am convinced that this would be bad, and I believe that the field of training, yes, the area of executives at all, would be included in the political party. It is important that we come to a training facility. It is important that this training facility also strengthens international contacts, and I therefore expect the relevant legislative proposal to be submitted to the National Council so that we can reach a decision quickly before the summer. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It is certainly true that we have a very good budget this time, but there are still many important questions. I have the fear - and there is a lot of reason for this danger - that the financial resources will not be used optimally, because the Minister of the Interior has remained guilty so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14947	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e14968	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have no doubt about it for me this evening: It's an evening of surprises! I feel it at least the same way as Mr Leikam has formulated it: I too would not have expected this tone and the intentions of the opposition parties! I'm glad about it! I am particularly pleased because Mr Partik-Pablé went through the plenary today with the incense boiler. I felt the pleasant fragrances: It was incense there, there was a little myrrh and coriander with it; a little pepper was there too, but only at the end a little pinch. Finally, the incense boiler was swung. And this from colleague Partik-Pablé to Minister Schlögl! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You and your group can take a good example of this!]] If I had spoken in these shawls as a security spokesman of the Austrian People's Party, if I had taken such a ludicrous course as you have done today, I would have been guaranteed by the Freedom Party with shame and shame! I know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're only more opposed!]] It's a wrong world! For the Freedom Party, we are only more opposed as it embodies the constructive elements! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're just against it, no matter what we do!]] As always, I will use my speech to act constructively on the one hand, on the other, pragmatically, and to make criticisms and suggestions where they are necessary, unlike you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I still do not know from Mr Moser after he has started with this Intrada, whether he will be tempted or whether he will resist it. Mr Moser! I will be very careful to see whether the Liberal Forum is opposed to the vote on the budget chapter of the temptation or that budget chapter! I'm really curious about that! For I have not become wise from the speech itself. I do not know how the voting will be in detail. I could only register that a huge piece of praise has been sent from you to the Minister and to the intention that the Coalition Government sets out in the chapter on internal security. Federal Minister! Unlike the Freedom Party and unlike the Liberal Forum, I try to go exactly the path I have outlined before. In recent years, this path has looked out as follows: If there is constructive work in connection with the planning for the security of this country, then the ÖVP as a coalition partner is on the side of the Minister. We are also committed to persuasion and are also willing to contribute unpleasantly. We have never questioned that, we stand by it! That's our style, that's our line! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, who are going to talk about me, will confirm what I say. In preparation for this evening, we have prepared the major topics of the chapter Internal Security very, very precisely. My colleagues will then address the individual topics in detail. Mr. Ofner! I can invite you to join us during today's debate! You'll be amazed at what the ÖVP-redners, who are in line after me, will bring in! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is possible!]] It's possible! This will be done by my colleagues, as always, in a very positive way, with suggestions and with conviction, with the knowledge that the Minister is in many cases implementing what we are bringing in. We see ourselves as an engine in the area of internal safety. That's how we understand our mission! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] It would be reasonable not to do that, but the opposition parties did not. How am I going? – Although I have been talking away for some time now, I would like to stress that, of course, thanks to those colleagues who carry out their work outside day and night are at the forefront. This thanks have to be at the forefront! For these colleagues are doing work in the service of the people and in the service of the security of our country, and they are also bringing in educational work. That's to be mentioned! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I repeat this as a perpetuum mobile, Mr. Federal Minister, and you have all our support for structural measures aimed at: It is about the population seeing the gendarmen or police on the street around the clock. That's prevention, it's exemplary, it frightens criminals and gulls! On this path, Minister of State, you have our support! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That doesn't frighten everyone!]] Oh, you're going into different destinations in the world! By the way, something has come to my mind now, Minister of State! Mr Partik-Pablé complained that the overtime would be broken down. To this end, I would like to say: Rosenstingl and possibly Gratzer – as we can see from today's newspapers – are guaranteed to ensure that, for example, in Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mauritius or wherever possible, those executive officials who are on track of the sought-after ones and have the corresponding searches will put quite decent overtime bills! Federal Minister! You can be sure that the overtime bills in this regard will go up quite decently! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to mention a second aspect: We believe that with effect 1. It has been decided on April in relation to the protection of our borders. – Nevertheless, in this context I draw attention to something: The increase in staffing in the area of the external border is not only our approval, but we have seen 250 additional bordering arms planned for the year 1999 as early as 1. In September 1998, they will be included in the service of the Bundesgendarmerie in order to carry out their tasks at the external border. This must not, however, affect the extent to which these human resources are used in the area of the external border at the expense of the internal areas, of our gendarmerie departments and of our growth facilities. There must be a fair and fair balance of interests in the interests of our domestic people. People must feel that not only are people transferred to the border, but there are corresponding increases of staff inside, in the communities, cities and countries. The figures show that over the last few years the effort in matters has increased disproportionately in the area of the Internal Chapter. I take from the statistics, Mr Federal Minister, that 31.64 per cent have been spent on internal affairs. And that's good, too, because we said: If the criminals drive with the Porsche and if they are on the road with all the possibilities in the field of telecommunications, then our Gendarmerie and our police should not go by bicycle. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I think Gratzer has his Porsche in Costa Rica!]] Mr Haselsteiner always has a comparison at hand! This Porsche was very small, but you can't go there with it! The choice was not appropriate! He didn't reach 20 percent, otherwise he would probably have the right Porsche in Costa Rica! I come to the last point, to assist the German army. I am of course completely different from Mr Moser on this point of view. The Austrian People's Party takes the view that the German army's assistance must remain beyond the border with Burgenland-Hungarian beyond the year 1999. Federal Minister! You have our support for this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] We strongly support the fact that after the next National Council elections in this coalition – or in any government coalition – it will come back to the pact that assistance will be extended. The population deserves it! The soldiers serve excellently in our country. It is not uninteresting – even in terms of value added. Of course, we register what is left of money in our country. And we know: Population and federal soldiers complement each other, provide a lot for this country and thus bring our country forward. Federal Minister! If we go this way together, you as a political leader and the ÖVP as a government partner that brings in ideas and is a motor in many areas, then we are going a good way of internal security!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15129	Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15151	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speakers took this budget chapter into account, including some fundamental considerations on security policy. I would like to join in, but on a number of points will differ from the speeches made by the previous speakers – and above all by a previous speaker. I will not tire of forwarding the following consideration as the greens of every security debate: The question of internal security and, in particular, the use of executives cannot be separated from the other parts of the budget. And so the previous speaker and the previous speakers expressed their joy that the internal security budget is increasing, I regret it so much, because I see it as the side of the medal that there is a break in the budget in the field of social security. On the issue of environmental safety, we have already held an in-depth debate on the subject of Mochovce. Federal Minister! I think you will share the view that any executive in the world, if certain ecological security issues are resolved unsatisfyingly, will be overwhelmed if such a risk factor – it should never happen! – suddenly updated. In the field of social security, it is also true that: If active labour market policies and the support of so-called marginal groups – and soon there will be no such ones – will be saved, then sometime again the call for more executives will become loud, in an area where it is overshadowed and the problems cannot be solved, because it cannot eliminate the causes. That means: There should be no bagatellization of crime – even those related to drug trafficking and drug abuse. But if here only the call for the executive becomes stronger, then problems will arise, which are simple and simply insoluble. We therefore call on Greens to extend the safety concept, to force prevention, to strengthen the fight against poverty and also to increase the use of environmental hazards. Second, in principle: The Greens support and support the state monopoly of violence if certain rules of play are observed. This means, in my opinion, that there must be a very, very clean distinction between the area of military security – in so far as it exists in the form of national armies at all – and the area of human and civil rights. With regard to military security, I share the view that has just been expressed: In any event, armies may have a residual function in the area of military security, but should never be used in connection with the protection of borders in migration processes or escape processes. Because the latter task is classically located in the field of executives, and I see it as a misuse of the federal army when the federal army is used on the border to befriended States. Now I come to my main concern, namely the question of the rule of law and human rights; and I now call you the main reason why we cannot accept this budget chapter: In recent months and years, there has been a very superficial dialogue on the issue of civil rights and human rights, and also on your part, Mr. Federal Minister, the organized crime, which is undoubtedly underestimated by no one, has always been used to justify the introduction of instruments in Austria that we reject Greens, because we believe that their indifferent use leads to the erodement of civil and human rights. [[Abg. Kiss: The opposite is the case!]] I'm talking now about the noise attack and the grid fencing. Federal Minister! What you have made in connection with your statements on the investigation of letter bombs was, in my view, the rebuttal of the need to introduce these instruments and not the confirmation. Federal Minister! I've been critical of this, and I'm going to repeat it now: In connection with your statements on the investigation of the letter bomb attacks, you have substantially changed the crime profile of the media at that time, namely in the only hard, statistically raised points concerning the age of the perpetrator and the form of life in a family association. . I can only be surprised that this case is used as a reason, whereas obviously the third crime states of organized criminals were not prevented by the introduction of these instruments and organized criminals could not be deterred by these instruments! Another point: I am aware that a number of changes have been made in the use of executives in peaceful, nonviolent demonstrations. There has apparently been a discussion process within the police, because such efforts are obviously being made with much more caution, and the executive is generally seeking a positive climate. I register this as a very positive circumstance. Nevertheless, I believe – for example, in connection with executive actions in the Vienna subway – that the sensitivity, when one can intervene in the privacy of citizens and citizens, and how one has to deal with the suspicion of innocence, must be further developed. I ask you here in every way whether you think it is appropriate – and I do not want to luggage the non-compliance with transport conditions – that in this connection with a fair mass offer of executives, as I have seen it myself, some real perlustrations are carried out. That seems to me very questionable. I do not consider this to be the central task in view of the security priorities. I believe that there is a further need for development in this area. For this reason, too, in order to develop the relevant sensitivity, I think it is time – in this respect I agree with the remarks made by my colleague from the Liberal Forum – to establish a security academy so that this dialogue can be conducted and a development, as it is natural in other countries – I mention in this connection Great Britain – can become a matter of course in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another important point: I note with great concern that not so small areas are handed over private guard services here in the Federal Capital. This does not mean, of course, that there is no longer any jurisdiction of the police. After all, however, the first competence lies in such private security services, for example for some extensive university areas or for railway stations. And if at least a partial praise has been expressed here by my previous speakers of the activities of the police, I would like, after expressing my praise to the field of demonstrations concerning also already, to present a very special praise for a perhaps small but, in my opinion, important case: I take note of a report from the district newspaper that at the Franz-Joseph railway station in Vienna there were apparently some overzealous privatesheriffs at work. They used to treat homeless people there in a really incomprehensible way with pepper spray and metal rods and then still had the threat of getting the police to strengthen. However, these police officers in Vienna-Ashergrund acted differently than the members of this private guard had assumed: They have not acted against the homeless in their illegitimate situation, but they have paid an ad against the private guard for personal injury. That's where I have to say: I really regard this behavior! It seems that the recurring debates on human rights versus state violence have fallen on fertile ground, and I am not willing to express my praise and thanks to these executive officials. Nevertheless, I would like You ask, Mr Federal Minister – and we will do so in written questions – to inform us of the extent to which the activities of these private security services have already been extended and the competences they have. Is there also a dialogue in this area with the Ministry of the Interior on the question of human and civil rights, or are we dealing with a wild growth here, that people are almost doing business without really having a job to do and apparently having completed without a corresponding training? Federal Minister! If there is such a development, I ask you to report on it on the one hand, and on the other hand to remind these private guards that they also do not enjoy exceptions to the rule of law. Because there must be no private sheriff here! I now come to a last point, which is also very, very important to me, namely the demarcation of police activity and, subsequently, the criminal courts in relation to political responsibility. I now look very consciously in the direction of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, because the way in which you measure members of this House and the Federal Government with varying degrees now seems to me really slowly to exceed the level of tolerance: Whenever you feel anything that the government groups do, but also the other opposition groups, as politically wrong, call after the police and after the criminal courts. If you assume from the liberals that you have the most natural right to know about everything that is happening within your area, and if, in the light of the mere dialogue of the Greens with the military and with government-critical bodies, you already have networks of terror, I ask you in every way whether political responsibility is really identical with proven or suspected criminal activity or criminally incriminated activity. Does political responsibility begin with a party observer only if one can prove to him that he has known anything about dubious machinations, and if one has to follow the post already detectiveally? – Criminal responsibility, delicate responsibility and political responsibility cannot be equated with! And if Mrs Partik-Pablé here praises the Minister of the Interior so much, I wonder what the praise of a group that threatens all the other groups with the judge and the prosecutor on every occasion. I would like to make it clear by an example what freedom of expression means by political responsibility: In May 1997, they called, in massive terms, for clarification of the political responsibility of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in connection with the Kurds. Klubobmann Stadler accused the government of: You do not care what has been said about these Federal Presidents in his time as Secretary-General of the Foreign Office! – Under the impression of the election support by the Freeman for these Federal Presidents, the same Klubobmann Stadler said on 15 May. However, on April 14, 1998, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany would like to be re-adapted only to salt a re-candidate. That's what I'm asking: What understanding of political responsibility do the liberals have? Does political responsibility really begin in the area where accusations and massive suspicions exist, such as in connection with Rosenstingl and Gratzer? – That makes the concept of political responsibility and a political debate in this House a farce! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to remind you of something in this context and leave the assessment to you yourself, which is to be held by the Liberal Group and its members: Is it a coincidence that, if this group itself is faced with internal problems and if there is a very unpleasant but necessary debate, which is being held by the others, this group will be presented with massive and partly immense accusations against the others and will suddenly find itself in a sacrifice role that is really involved in the hair? For example: I have a sugar spreader here, which was not even thrown at Dr. Haider in the previous presidential election campaign – and if I am quite informed. But at once this one became an adventurous bomb filled with weed salt! In the course of the letter bomb causa and our debate, in which it was not about the participation to be suspected of criminal law or even about the approval of such measures by the FPÖ, but only about the political responsibility for a certain climate in Austria, all of a sudden letter bomb attacks are flattened in your house! Was that a coincidence? Who did that? Why? Why? – You may also have to ask yourself such critical questions! In connection with the no longer reversible massive accusations against the FPÖ party leader, not only in terms of political responsibility, but in actual co-confidence in alleged criminal actions, the rumor has suddenly appeared that you should have used some frequency of fire brigade for hearing. These are very strange coincidences! This building has long since collapsed. Federal Minister! I don't know how She voted the massive praise from this side. It will be tried again and again by this side to join the Minister of the Interior. Löschnak was once the best man in FPÖ, and you, Federal Minister Schlögl, will have to deal, for example, with the foreign law, with the rule of law, with all the police investigation methods and with the judicial control of the Parliament in relation to all parts of the executive, with whether you continue to adopt a behaviour which will bring you praise from this side, or whether you are trying to achieve a probably tough, but constitutionally correct and fair dialogue with other parts of this House!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15214	Mr Schwemmlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15236	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is really unique: I am now the sixth speaker of the ongoing debate, and I was unable to identify a single criticism point – although it was sometimes not unpleasant in the past when previous speakers provided some sort of keyword with which one could subsequently deal with content. – I conclude that you, Mr Federal Minister, and the Federal Government are making a very good security policy. I would like to highlight another area, which is essential in security policy and which concerns the preparation of legislation, namely the Committee on the Interior. From this point of view, I would like to stress how pleasant the work in this committee is and, I think this is very good, how sensitive it is to the committee's chairman, Mr Toni Leikam, to this committee. I can express my sincere thanks to you from this point of view, Toni! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has presented a rather interesting approach. Mrs Colleague, I agree with you. If we go further, then I see our future task very well in not winning wars, but in preventing wars. I clearly see in it the idea that security policy must be something very comprehensive and cannot be reduced to executive and federal armies. The fact is, however, that our executive is able, on the one hand, to deal with the tasks – they are becoming increasingly complicated and more and more – and that, on the other hand, it is legitimate and understandable that the population, each in its subjective sense of security, expects to be supported in such a way that it knows that it is not alone and not any threats. In the course of this debate, another essential point was raised which I would like to support and highlight. The more officials of the security executives are required to deal with new situations the more they have to deal with – I think you will agree with them – the more important it is to prepare them for situations. It has been addressed by a number of previous speakers the need for the Security Academy. I would like to thank the previous speakers for doing so, and I can explain my position to you clearly and clearly. We have progressed very far in the negotiations. The Security Academy is already getting a picture – and to an increasing extent. It is in our view so far that, I hope, we will very soon be able to actually install it. The 1999 budget provides for 26 million Schilling for the Security Academy. This is not very much, but it is a signal that it is serious for us to get and install the Security Academy for the further training of the security executive, but above all for the scientific discussion and for international communication. The Security Academy should enable our employees to meet the requirements even better. I ask everyone to support us in our efforts!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15290	Mr Laiber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15311	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is good to be able to follow up today during the debate that there are also factual arguments. I would like to support the arguments put forward here by my colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé as a security spokesperson for the liberals, and I would also like to thank the Federal Minister in some way. Because in the executive, some really great thing has happened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only positive, but also criticism can be mentioned here. [[Abg. Perfuss: Thank God!]] I am going to justify this so that you too can understand it in the following sense. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That then coincides!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Federal Minister! In a questionable hour in the Federal Council – I would like to make a few quotes – you have answered the following: The more personnel the Federal Ministry of the Interior has available, the better and more meaningful it is. That is why the Minister of the Interior will never be satisfied with the staff level and will have to demand more and more. If you travel around Europe, you can clearly see that wherever there are a large number of executive organs, the rate of crime is significantly lower than in countries where there are a lower number of executive organs. - Quote. Federal Minister! With regard to organised crime, we have to read the following in the "Kronen Zeitung" We must add to these criminals, who are enriching themselves with the distress and misery of other people, laying the craftsmanship and building a protective wall against these organizations. [[Abg. Perfuss: That's not all right either!]] So far, some of the decisive battles against the drug cartels have failed, as the fighters had to save overtime. Therefore, in 1998 there will be no reduction in staff for the 33 000 security officers, nor will the technical equipment of our Red Pen executive be used. Faktim is something else, Minister of State: There were meetings in April in your ministry, where it was agreed that additional services should be saved at least between 5 and 6 per cent during overtime hours. But what does that mean? – Apart from the fact that the 1998 budget cannot be directly linked to that for 1999: What are the effects for 1999? We've calculated this: The savings amount to 191 464 overtime, which are calculated according to a certain value. This corresponds to the savings of 156 officials. In addition, the saving of 90 plant sites for 1998 alone in the area of the Federal Army. Federal Minister! In other words, 246 officials are less available for 1998 with increasing performance and increased administrative burden! That's exactly what we're trying to criticize here. 534 sites have been saved so far, and as mentioned, another 90 will follow for 1998. What does that mean? – I would now like to explain this to you by an example of an order from a district army command in Lower Austria – that of Mistelbach. In the following way, this statement shall finally be addressed to the service commanders and departments: In the area of the LGK Lower Austria, the current command – i.e. the adoption or the command of the Landesgendarmerie Command – provides for an average savings of 30.9% in overtime compared to 1994 – that is to say, black on white. – So this is not about the 4.5 or 6 percent that have been given somewhere, but it is clearly about 30.9%! Since the border service has been praised here, I would also like to refer to the following, Mr Federal Minister – this is to be read, among other things, among GREKO and GÜP –: They have to achieve a 3 percent savings compared to the year of comparison for 1998. The original is that the security sector is no longer valued there. It doesn't matter what happens, because – that's what it says – failure to comply with the instructions requires legal consequences. This means for a Head of Service: If, on the basis of service conditions, he has to do more than is planned or if the overtime directive is violated, he may even be held responsible for disciplinary action! This is not party-political criticism, Mr Federal Minister, but it is criticism by me personally too! For I am a general army official with body and soul and cannot personally see that exactly there is being saved. They have provided huge financial resources in the area of border services – of course for the future and for border security. But in return, internal services – gender army posts and watchrooms – will be financially cut down. As a result, there are so large savings that the service can no longer be maintained in certain areas, and I can prove that there have been times when services were not occupied and their work had to be done by neighboring offices or even further away services. But these officials did not complete the additional work, but only received brief notes, and then these files returned to the department concerned, so that the respective officials had to do this work in addition during his term of service. This means the double load at less hours. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! It's nice if you have achieved – at least in part – in the establishment plan to reduce the planned savings for 1999. But in the light of all this information in the establishment plan and in the budget, I have to explain to you a point which, from my point of view and also from the point of view of the liberals, is critical: In the executive field, no additional officials have been made available, except for the Gendarmerie with 65 officials, but – which is also not negative – in the area of border services, including in the central management and, above all, in the officials of the general administration and "manual use" groups. Not that this would be negative, but I believe that the main focus should be on maintaining the security of the population and taking appropriate steps here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it is felt that the security of the population is trodden by looking at these savings in the area of the Gendarmerie Posts and the guards. Officials are not observed with their concerns, which are only aimed at helping the injured person in his right. Executive officials responsible for security in this country are left in the rain by the members of the Federal Government, in particular by the Federal Minister. This is not the policy we support. In the case of freedom of movement, the citizen is in the foreground, and above all the executives are in the foreground, because they receive us the security, peace and order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15400	The next speaker is Mr Platter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15421	Mr President. Minister! High house! As far as Mrs Partik-Pablé is concerned, I am sure that I can recover this budget positively. I would also like us to have more resources at our disposal, but there is no doubt that the internal security budget has increased by 2 billion schilling over the last two years. The key to this financial increase was undoubtedly border security under the Schengen Agreement and, of course, the technical equipment of the executive. Even though the safeguarding of the EU's external border has absolute priority, we cannot, as honourable Member Paul Kissreard said, fully underestimate domestic compensatory measures. In this context, police cross-border follow-up to our neighbouring countries must be clearly regulated, and in addition, existing equipment deficits must be addressed. Minister! In this context, I remind you of a visit to the Gendarmerieposten in Landeck on 21st. ==References== At the time, you were able to see for yourself that a bus was available for compensation measures, but the equipment was missing. Except for blue light and radio, nothing was available. The honourable Members are surprised that this equipment has not yet arrived. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, to help with the shortages of equipment in general and specifically the equipment for this bus at Landeck's Gendarmerie Post. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Because I am just talking about equipment, I would like to present a problem on the current occasion, which also has to do with the budget from the chapter on the inside. In March 1998, my knowledge of all the Gendarmerie officials was given new belts. It turned out that this belt is not suitable at all due to the excess width produced for carrying the weapon and beyond – like pepper spray, handcuffs, RMS sticks and so on. [[Abg. Leikam: But there are different opinions! Your colleague too, please!]] I am going to read something about this, and you can see exactly what the colleagues are saying about it. These things should also be shown here in the House! The officials are undoubtedly frustrated about this and complain about the destruction of money and the like. I can read a letter of reply from a large army post here to a country army command. It says: "The accompanying 30 belts and the delivered swivel joint for Glock plastic halves are therefore not accepted and returned due to absolute inuseability. The impossibility of the belt for the available means of use has already been fully documented in two opinions. The use belts are expected to provide a suitable and non-useful means. All officials surveyed of this Gendarmerie post simply reject such questionable and unusable equipment because of obvious futility. The post commander." In my opinion, this is clearly an indication of the need to look into what has been done. Minister! I would like to ask you to look at the right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the current point of view, I would like to refer briefly to the problem of truck transit in Tyrol. In the past, around 4,000 trucks were weighed daily at the border. With the deduction of the gendarmen and customs authorities to date 1. In April 1998, proper weight control was no longer ensured. Above all, however, the control of ecopoints no longer works. The Minister knows and knows this problem, as the head of state has presented it to him. – You'll have 1 immediately on it. ==References== However, I would like to ask you, in agreement with the Minister for Transport, to find a solution which is acceptable to the people of Tyrol. With the last point, I have a particularly important concern. Many of my colleagues asked me to speak in the parliamentary debate on the Wage Service Services Act. At present, it is extremely difficult for executives who have had an accident at work or who have even been fatally ill in carrying out their duties to receive a special assistance from the Federal Service Provider. I personally know some cases in which there has not been any assistance from the federal government. As recently stated, after a fatal Alpine accident in the service, only due to an intervention by the Ministry of Finance in the Culinary Ways could these funds be allocated. In this context, it should be noted that we urgently need to ensure that executive officials are given more victim protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Minister! I therefore believe that it is certainly in your interest to make a clear settlement for executive officials who have had to accept human fates. That is why I call on you, Minister, to address this issue in the interests of executives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15480	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15501	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the debate on the internal budget chapter, I would like to highlight just a small point, which may not be so powerful as a budget, but which is important to me. The opportunity to put him to the debate in this debate is therefore not unattractive, because even a small savings potential is hidden in this humanitarian concern. It is about the question of the objectors and ultimately also about the question of the hungry offenders. Federal Minister! We had the opportunity to discuss it with you at the last meeting of a question. It was about your house having developed the idea of handing over to those in the hunger strike to the care of the judicial penitentiaries. This was not successful because the Federal Ministry of Justice has not approached your request with respect to the Federal Minister for Justice. In this connection, we have addressed the Federal Minister for Justice and, by means of a request to him, we have tried to get the matter to the ground. There has been an interesting and from my point of view essential point of view. It was not only interesting to note that the Federal Ministry of Justice is in a completely plausible way, for what reasons the forced feeding of drawers according to the rules of the Criminal Enforcement Act would be a disproportionate means – on the issue of proportionality should be discussed longer – but rather the fact that the Ministry of Justice expressed in it, it would be willing and willing to enter into an exchange of experience with you, because the phenomenon of hunger strike in the judicial centres is much more rare than in criminal cases. I should like to focus on the central sentence of the Minister of Justice. He says: It must be noted, however, that the conditions for the successful prevention of hunger strike in a care-oriented prison are much better than in a mere custody operation. I think that there is a substantial double option of action, double in the sense that on the one hand, it becomes apparent that federal care is usually the more intelligent means than a thrust, because, as the word says, federal care is a care process. In addition – and this is the small savings potential that I would like to point out – federal care, with regard to the costs per day, is significantly cheaper than pushy. On the other hand, you would not have had some of the difficulties that arise in the course of the purely depository execution, and could further develop opportunities to put the care in the foreground even in the case of thrust. I know that project considerations are in progress, which are in the process of doing something in this respect in cooperation with humanitarian institutions. But I think that would be the true path in cases where the pushy is inevitable from our point of view – such cases are without any doubt – too. For, of course, the Federal Service is not a cure. However, asylum seekers should normally be in federal care and the thrust should focus on the real goals, on the area in which it is inevitable. The principle of proportionality is often used as a basis for intimidation alone. I mean, this is a small chapter in relation to the entire budget of your home, with regard to aspects of a security academy, in relation to the need for other continuing and continuing training of security executives, their equipment, the questions of reorganisation – all these things have already been discussed. In relation to this, it is a small field. But it would be a field where you could significantly improve the reputation of the Republic of Austria – also towards international refugee organisations and churches. I mean, it would be a pity if your image improvements were to remain at the media level, which, as a matter of fact, would not always be to the delight of the opposition, less for reasons of jealousy than for reasons of contentiveness, and which you would then accept, for example, the praise of the colleague, Partik-Pablé. It would be better if you would rather focus on looking for your image improvements in the area of more humanitarian access to such issues. Because – this is my last memo – you will hopefully not want to overtake those on the right who have praised you today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15549	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15571	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. It has already been said a lot today. The debate has sometimes been critical, sometimes positive for the work of the Ministry of the Interior, and I think that both are necessary. I assume that there will only be successful work in one area if there is the necessary support of the political leaders if the necessary praise is given – that is also important – but also the necessary criticism is exercised. In my opinion, this has been the case in a very balanced way in today's debate. I shall try to address the various contributions to the debate in my opinion. First of all, I believe that it is very important what has been said by Mrs Petrovic when she clearly knows that safety is a comprehensive concept. I see it that way, too. It would be wrong to believe that internal security is exclusively a matter of being effective, consistent, hard – or whatever – against crime and crime. This is an essential part of good security in a country, but security is much more: Security also means social justice in a country, security means as high employment as possible, security also means that no one in that country is excluded because of its social position, security means also democratic access to all institutions and democratic rights, and security means security in the field of ecology, especially at today's debate in the House on Mohovce. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I would like to take account of the comprehensive security concept that has been discussed here and add that, of course, this can only be done to a small extent by the political party responsible for the Ministry of the Interior: This is rather an order to the entire Federal Government as well as to all other political leaders. In my opinion, Mrs Petrovic is just as right, if she thinks that he should be very sensitive, particularly in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, with its nearly 33 500 employees. Therefore, it is not important for me whether I get or not praise from right, left, red, green, blue, black or anyone else. I think it is important and decisive to try to make a policy that is tangible and that it is assumed to be in the interests of the people. That is why I also believe that in this ministry in recent months, but also in recent years – and I would also very consciously like to include my two predecessors, Franz Lösnak and Caspar One – we have started a series of changes that are very important. If Mrs Petrovic says that she agrees that in some areas more sensitive action is being taken, I would just like to say that, for example, it has proved to a great extent that gendarmerie officials and police forces are being trained much more than before, and that it has proved to be equally successful, for example, that the woman in the executive has a significantly higher priority and significantly better access than in recent years. It has also proved very well that there is a very open dialogue with groups within our society that have previously avoided the executives. A very positive example from my point of view is the fact that women's employees are now teaching gender-armery students and police students. This has proved very well and has also contributed significantly to the fact that fears of contact that have occurred there and there no longer exist to this extent, that mutual understanding is much greater and that there has been an increase in the willingness to engage more in security policy and in particular in the field of violence in the family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make another point, Mr Petrovic, right. I do not want to defy or criticize private security services now, and I agree that they too have their meaning in society. However, I do not want to experience that there is a development in us as in other countries of Europe, but especially in the United States, where there is much more private than state security. There is a development in which security goes in the direction that those who can afford it are guaranteed security – and those who cannot afford it do not have this security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That means: The State, the public hand, the Parliament, the Federal Government must show the willingness to provide the necessary financial resources for this security. I would also like to say right to those who believe that although some have changed on the positive side, structural reforms are also necessary and important. I admit that such a system, as traditional as the Austrian executive, has been serving for so long, needs such reforms. The fact that we are celebrating 149 years of federal army this year is a sign that it is an old apparatus which has changed over the course of these 150 years in many areas, but which of course must also be reformed. And the same is true of the police. That is why we started in the last few weeks with the structural concept of "Police 2000", and I assume that we will continue this development together in the future. In addition, I would like to announce that in this year there will be an amendment to the Security Police Act, which will include at least four points: firstly, a reform of the State Police, secondly, the establishment of the Security Academy, thirdly, a clear legal assurance of the area of DNA analyses and fourthly more powers in security police matters for the municipal police forces, which exist in many communities of Austria and which need a clear appreciation. With regard to the state police reform, I would like to say to Mr Moser that the state police reform which I am imagining, which will be introduced in Parliament and which, as I hope, will also be approved, consists essentially of three cornerstones. The first cornerstone of the STAPO reform is that it is made clear that it is necessary and important that every state police officer obtains the necessary information and that, in order to express it clearly here, this information should be provided even if there is not necessarily a criminal law record. – This is the first important pillar. The second important pillar is that the necessary analyses are carried out on the basis of this information and that the results of these analyses are then made available. And I believe that it is necessary and important in a democracy that the relevant documents are made available not only to the government or to those responsible for the department, but also to Parliament. Therefore, we need to find new forms in order to be able to process information of sensitive origin in an appropriate way in a constructive dialogue. The third pillar is the possibility of being able to carry out the necessary operational activities together with other areas of the executive due to the information collection and analysis. This is, in a simplified way, my idea of the state police reform, the concept of which is de facto completed and which will be presented in the framework of the Security Police Act in this year. The same applies to the Security Academy, and I would like to add that the differing views of the political groups regarding the content of the Security Academy Act are rather marginal. I hope that this can be discussed a substantial contrast in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I believe that it is also necessary and important for us to look at reforming the situation. Mr Kier has illuminated this from one side, Mrs Partik-Pablé of the other. It would be easy to say now: I'm trying to go a middle way. But that would not be an honest and correct answer, because there can be no means in this area. That is why we are trying to find a form which, in some way, is in line with the intention we are pursuing, namely the people who have entered our country illegally and who, in our opinion, cannot claim a political right of asylum, nor can they expect to be temporarily arrested and to be postponed as quickly as possible, while all those who are persecuted for legitimate political, religious or ethnic reasons should not, if possible, be pushed into captivity. However, this is not always quite easy to distinguish. We have been trying, Mr Kier, in the area of police management in Vienna over the last few weeks to take appropriate measures. We have found that the relief of federal care is useful everywhere where not a single person but a whole family association is affected. In such cases, federal care is very suitable, and in such cases this option is already applied to almost 100 percent. However, the percentage of those who do not stay in the Federal Service for too long is very, very high among the individuals who come from the field of federal care. This is our problem, and we are trying to find a solution to this problem, which is in the direction of applying federal care to groups of persons, but not to individuals whose asylum is not clearly in the foreground. In this context, however, I would like to mention that cooperation with the charitative organizations has proved very well. This has not, as some have feared, led us to have more hunger-stricken now, but it has – on the contrary! – had a rather positive effect. And with regard to the accusations of "amnesty", we have made the rule that even "amnesty", although this organization is not active in charitable care, has access to detention. On an area that is also very important to me, none of my previous speakers has so far commented on the question of road safety in Austria. That is why I would like to address this issue very briefly, which is also in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. I am proud to report that we have 82 fatalities by mid-May 1998 than in the same period of the previous year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, representatives of the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] If this trend goes on almost the same way, it means that we will for the first time be able to get below the number of 1,000 fatalities this year. Fraglos is still a very high number, but a sound limit has been broken as well. The reasons for this are diverse. I would like to look at three of them: First, police control Gendarmerie much sharper than before. This has also contributed to the fact that there is already criticism that there is too much control. Secondly, there has been a change of attitude in the population. The drivers have become more sensitive. Thirdly, I believe that the reduction of the promille limit to 0.5 promille has also made a significant contribution to this. It is fair to say, however, that in the last few days and weeks we have had to see that the awareness that alcohol and driving is not compatible is again a little slumped and we have to try to control it more closely. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the 1999 budget for the Austrian executive is a budget which ensures that the high safety standards can continue to be maintained in the future. I believe that this budget of the Ministry of the Interior will enable the security authorities to act efficiently and effectively in the future, both preventive and repressively, against crime.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15698	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15719	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a resident of the West Styria, I have lived since 1. On April 1, 1998, at an external border with Schengen, I was able to see that the changeover to the new situation has succeeded in a relatively short period of time. Parliament has contributed to the border control law, and the Federal Ministry of the Interior has prepared the executive for this changed situation through human resources and special training. Technical equipment is another aid to enable Austria to fully fulfil its Schengen external border control task. Austria is thus bringing an excellent standard to the EU. There are almost 5,000 people working in border control in Austria who carry out their heavy duty without a large carver, which is not quite easy in difficult situations, and that is very commendable. A direct effect has already been observed in our region. Mr Wabl will know that because he lives in the south-west Styria. [[Abg. Wabl: Exactly!]] The Federal Minister has already suggested that some say that there is too much control. The culprits of all kinds are going back, and people are already afraid that staff will be reduced because there is not enough. Obviously, the statement is true: Trust is good, control is better! That proves it. All those who used the argument of the open border as a deterrent when joining the EU are said to have proved that Austria has not become more uncertain, but that Austria has remained the safe country it was. And this is what we owe to forward-looking measures and motivated security officials! I have once read that there has been crime since people became sedentary. – However, the picture of crime changes. In our prosperity society, in which We are talking about Being, of course, economic crime, unfortunately, but also international drug trafficking and organised crime are increasing. In the last few weeks we have seen that economic crime has not even stopped before Parliament. The new search methods are obviously necessary. Prominent refugees are on their way, which means that we have to use our methods fully, because the criminals have become very flexible, especially if they have financial resources. They operate cross-border, and we are therefore pleased to be able to use appropriate methods. There is also a changed picture in the field of international drug trafficking. The location is constantly changed. In the past, the classic ports for drug trafficking were Rotterdam and Genoa. Now a shift into the East is slowly becoming apparent. Unfortunately, Austria is not spared from organized crime either. We are not a "island of the Blessed" in this regard. However, the special training of executives, the creation of special units, EUROPOL and international cooperation, as well as the new methods mentioned earlier, are instruments to counter this development. Of course, all these arrangements and personnel costs take a significant part in the budget. Mr Schlögl has already been greatly praised today, and of course I agree with this praise. Above all, I appreciate his humble manner, his personal commitment and the ability to empathize and communicate. His word record earlier proved this once again: He is the undisputed sympathizer of the government, as one could see again today. We are very proud of our Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister, the officials, but also our security spokesperson, who is very dedicated and who is very happy to be in this office, so that it is a pleasure to work in the Committee on the Interior. I would also like to thank the taxpayers, who also have a large share of success with their taxes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15763	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15781	Federal Minister! I am quite touched with so much thanks, so much praise and so much input! The "Kronen-Zeitung" is right if it has already prophesied a "parliamentary day without turbulence" for the rest of the day at 4 p.m. But, ladies and gentlemen, we should not forget, in spite of all the harmony and despite this input, that much really does not behave like that! Federal Minister! If Mrs. Dr. Petrovic She has praised or rather – I have not considered it so much as a praise – has certainly supported certain aspects of your policy, such as your security concept – we have conducted this dialogue several times, you and I with you – so we are not far apart in this regard, and I am entirely with you. If, however, Mr. Federal Minister, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé praises you, then that would make me very proud in your place, because praise by Mrs. Partik-Pablé can truly promise nothing good! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I am now referring to your comments, as you have mentioned the comments made by your previous speakers: If you, Mr Federal Minister, return this consent to your strategy or, in the original tone, to your policy, which is tangible, it will make me even more plausible. For I also place this policy of warmness in it – and this is a way that has begun long before your time and long before the time of Mr. Federal Minister One – that one consistently meets the Freedom Party in its positions a few steps, according to the motto: in the interest of the people! - That's what you called it. I am extremely skeptical of this, Mr Federal Minister, because – I am now quoting a second expression that you have said in the light of the many praises – you are going, in relation to Mr Kier, in connection with the use of less resources, pushy, hunger strike and the associated problem, the middle path between Partik-Pablé and Kier. But there is no means, Mr Federal Minister, to defend human rights, to respect fundamental rights, but there is only one way: to consistently work for human rights and for the rule of law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister! We know each other long enough. Vote me Your harmonious words, everything in the same tone and to all equally nice, extremely thoughtful! But now, because the time has already pressed for a motion for a resolution which concerns me in connection with today's budget. Special events of the immediate last time that have started for a long time – keywords: The crisis of the FPÖ and its functionaries, Causa Rosenstingl, but also Baukartell, Teleges and the like, have clearly shown which, if not shortcomings, at least human gaps exist with the security officers involved in economic crime. There are simply and simply too few security officers with appropriate expertise. Because for use in this area you need a certain expertise. We have not thought of this, but it has resulted directly from the work of the ladies and gentlemen involved in this field. These people do excellent work, and I admire the fact that so few people have set in motion so much. Nevertheless, it is not enough. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This seems to me to be a command of the hour and a necessity. Mr. Federal Minister! My speaking time is almost over, so I would just like to say two more sentences about another disappointment in the field of the Committee on the Interior. I do not know how Mrs Perfuss has come to appreciate that everything is so great in the Committee on the Interior. I objected to evil when I think of the intention – I say " intention", because that can still be corrected in reality – in connection with the new citizenship law. I have allowed myself to find out what the colleagues from SPÖ have said in recent years at the first readings in connection with the Greens' own-initiative proposals on the need for action or the need for innovation. Everyone said: Yes, you're perfectly right! That's it! We, too, located this need for innovation. But what do I take away from the announcement made by the Federal Minister? – In a press conference, he mentioned three points to be improved or, according to his assessment, to be changed for the better. One point – I hope still have an opportunity to discuss it intensively with you in committee – is related to those who have been persecuted in the Nazi era. Federal Minister! With all appreciation: If you present to the public, over 50 years later, a measure whose establishment is the duty and the guilt of a state to which citizenship and its citizenship rights have been taken knowingly and willingly, as "improvement" I can only say to the negotiations in this Committee with this Committee, which Mrs Parfuss has so praised, that: Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15875	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15893	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! For current reasons, I would like to discuss two issues on today's budget debate, namely, the organisation of the fight against organised crime and the human resources of STAPO, and secondly, as the Upper Austrian Member, I must address the position or the situation of the Upper Austrian army. Federal Minister! I do not think you should also be aware that you are trying to lead the Ministry in accordance with the executive and the safety of Austria. However, I may come to my above Austrian topic immediately. Mr Federal Minister, you know that the stress study confirms that the executive officers or general army officials have reached or have already reached their limit. They also know that at least 106 Gendarmerie officials are missing in Upper Austria, with no account being taken of those officials who will retire in the near future. All of this does not help to improve the prevention, traffic surveillance or other police measures that we urgently need. There can be no talk of that! Unfortunately, the opposite is true of God in wide areas. There is a de-motivation and an overload after the overtime has been removed and further cuts are envisaged. There may well be security risks that cannot be in your best interests, nor in my Upper Austrian Member. Federal Minister! Therefore, I would also like to ask you to refrain from the planned reductions of the 15 plan posts and also from the overtime reduction. That is why I ask you, on behalf of the executive officials, in particular the senior army officials of Upper Austria, and in the interest of the security standard in our federal state. Secondly, organised crime. The murder of a jeweller in Vienna has brought organized crime back into the headlines and brought back to mind the reform of the state police, which you have already mentioned. They know from the latest security report that the share of organised crime in total crime is 30 to 35 percent. In the area of organised crime, we have unlimited funds and state-of-the-art technology, as we know. The profits are estimated at over 100 billion US dollars. In the long term, organised crime is also a threat to our rule of law and an increasing opponent of any democratic order because of the danger of corruption. . To mention this, I think it is absolutely necessary in the course of our debate today. I would like to illustrate the urgency of this reform: I know from the experience of the officials that cooperation with the EDOK is at best difficult and, in most cases, almost impossible. The EDOK is still not ready to pass on information, but rather becomes operational itself. A flow of information does not take place in de facto. Federal Minister! I think you are interested in making the announcement the step towards implementation, and I am sure that this announcement will be implemented this year. We from the Austrian People's Party stand for STAPO reform and support you in all your efforts so that we can take due account of organised crime accordingly. Apart from that, I would like to mention once again that it is necessary for you to remedy the above-mentioned situation by providing service posts and not shortening them!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15947	The motion for a resolution, Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits concerning the increase of the staff of the security officials has been introduced in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e15972	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The course of this debate today seems strange, and it is obvious that Mrs Petrovic is addressing my colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé and expressing her displeasure. – Obviously, the greens are a little jealous! The fact is: It corresponds to the nature of the liberals and of course also the nature of my colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé, to be factual! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If this, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Petrovic, finds her displeasure and causes jealousy, then this is yours! Since you have also addressed the case of Rosenstingl and have tried to bring into play a know-how of the FPÖ leadership: I can assure you that we will solve our problems, which we have admittedly, clean and transparently! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should not have missed out on whose consent the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry which the Greens have submitted. – We do not want to wall, we want transparency. We voted in favour of setting up such a committee of inquiry. He was rejected by ÖVP and SPÖ! I should also like to spread out the concerns raised by Mr Kier. I do not know whether the Federal Minister intends to overtake the liberals, as Mr Kier said, on the right. I see no reason for this acceptance! It was striking, however, that Mr Stoisits, who spoke of inconspicuous harmony and who was touched but also thoughtful, said that if he received praise from Mr Partik-Pablé, he would have to do so to the Minister of the Interior. – I can only tell you: If a minister in the Committee is objectively and openly and certainly also willing to change certain things for the better, then we are also in favour and express ourselves positively. However, if criticism is needed, we will be very likely to bring it in to the Minister for the Interior Schlögl. Federal Minister! I may make a few comments on addiction crime: ==References====External links== As we know, there is still a dramatic increase in drug crime in April 1998. Compared to 1996, there was an increase of 7 percent. At the same time, we know from press releases that a human collapse threatens the Vienna security office. The number of investigators continues to decline, with a decrease of supposedly 200 to 180 in the addiction unit. There should also be a reduction in those who, as it were, stand on the front, namely in the fencing. It should be noted that the dark figures in this area are quite high. As part of organised crime, there are drug cartels, which also have a corresponding share in this area. Organized crime has a share of 30 to 35 percent in total crime, with unfortunately rising trend. And it's still 230 drug deaths a year. Minister of the Interior! I know that drug policy is only a segment of the tasks that fall within your domain, but it is remarkable and I think it is unpleasant that there is an indecision in the government's overall drug policy and possibly also a favorite with the Swiss model. I do not believe that the regulation on drugs is not in our sense, even if it will bring you statistical improvements in the future, namely the transfer of crime statements to criminal record stocks. It does not come about that the UN Drug Control Council, in particular President xxx, see. Hamid Ghodse, says: The Council remains concerned about the spread of programmes for the delivery of heroin to opiates. In particular, the Council is concerned about the global impact of these measures on the prevention of drug use and the reduction of demand. There is a lack of coordination between the various competent ministries, which should and should deal with the area of drug policy as a whole. There are conflicting measures which we do not, of course, support. It would be a pleasure for the liberals to carry out a coordination task in order to coordinate the activities of the various parties involved. We know that in Vorarlberg there is the example of the workshop for addiction prophylaxis, which is very successful; finally, a reason for the previous vote that took place here. It should be so that young people will be informed as early as possible. In your area, which ultimately has to deal with crime, this also calls for a corresponding increase in the executive to combat trafficking in illegal drugs. It would be a further desire to create its own institution, something like a "drug cobra". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I should like to make a further request, namely that, since you have already addressed road traffic and also the more stringent controls today, to treat drug abuse as well as alcohol abuse in vehicle controls. That is to say, it is about improving the equipment of the executive, for example through test strips for the quick detection of drug abuse. Federal Minister! I can wish you happy extremities in the fight against drug crime. Happy extremities I wish you because on Friday last week you had a happy foot against the Finns. With regard to the fight against drug crime, I can wish you a happy hand!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16051	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16072	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with a technical problem of internal security: the radio, specifically with the new generation's radio system, with which the executive Austrians will soon be equipped, namely the ADONIS project. Finally, gendarmerie and police will be able to contact each other efficiently. But the system goes far beyond – this is the interesting thing – because it also concerns all the other blue light organizations, which are also to be equipped with it, i.e. fire brigade, red cross, Samaritan covenant, judicial guard, customs guard and the like more. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear from my view that this is a development that can only be seen. I regard this advance as a quantum leap in the field of general internal security. As a longtime leader of the fire brigade, I can sing a song of it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Please don't!]] If you wanted to get in touch with other forces, for example with the Red Cross, because there were dead and seriously injured in serious accidents on the highway, or also with the police, that was never possible. It was not possible to radio traffic, but the calls were always going back to the power station, and then the power station telephoned with the other power station, and over three or four points usually came out something completely different than the one originally wanted to tell the other. Ladies and gentlemen! This system will become particularly interesting in the event of a disaster, even if an alarm centre is set up in district headquarters and if all of these units can communicate at a single frequency. In the case of collection calls, everyone knows immediately where they are from, and everyone knows what is needed at the moment, so that much time is saved and several problems can be avoided. The system ADONIS is an interesting thing, but also costs money. It will cost around 5 billion schilling, of which approximately 60 percent of the federal government and 40 percent will take over the countries. 50 channels are now available, 400 will be in the future. The system is expected to stand by 2003. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All the experts and the bodies concerned agree that it would be quite crazy to make investments in old systems now. It is important to point out to all groups that they are no longer investing, but are waiting for the new system to enter the system together. The applications are also interesting because they are terminals that can also be used as mobile phones. Very often radio shadows in the field of executives have presented a problem, they were often very difficult in the case of use. It is very beneficial that radio shadows will soon be part of the past. Of course you can also encrypt the system, because it is known that not all messages are intended for everyone. It is also suitable – even an interesting thing – for data transmission. Ladies and gentlemen! A stand-up is: A precise message is already half the use. I think that this development will be of great importance to the executive. Finally, I would like to thank my friend Toni Leikam, just like my colleagues before, for the nice climate that exists in our committee. I would also like to congratulate the 150th anniversary. ==References====External links== Join the Gendarmerie deployment command's birthday. I thank the Federal Minister for the Interior, I thank all the officials of the House and, of course, all the officials of the Executive for their service, which is not always easy, but is of great importance to this country, as we can see. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16110	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. The remaining speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the following problem very briefly. After frequencies and radio shadows, drug policy and everything possible on the agenda, Mr Federal Minister, I am now dealing with the blind people from the Second World War, who are still hidden in insignificant numbers at individual points in Austria. It is about 8,000 pieces of undetonated and quite large flyer bombs, which are also located in places where construction work is taking place and, ultimately, are a danger to all those who work there. However, they are also a danger to people living in these areas. It would be useful for the public authorities to focus at last – especially now, as those photographs on which one can see which aircraft bombs have not exploded after bombardments – in order to locate these bombs, to create appropriate suspects, to probe the individual pilot bombs and ultimately to dispose of them gradually. The financing of this project has now been challenged between the Ministry of the Interior on the one hand, as well as the countries and communities on the other, because one cannot agree on who is ultimately responsible for finding it. On the part of the Ministry of the Interior, one feels responsible for the elimination and compensation – this is supposedly also the case according to the competences of the Federal Ministry Act – but not for finding and storing. This leads to the great situation that the Ministry of the Interior always comes only if someone with the shovel or a cramp hits a non-detonated bomb on construction work. Moreover, in Carinthian lakes there are not insignificant quantities of such old combatants. This also provides an opportunity for military explosives to be supplied to those who wish to do so. Federal Minister! I convinced myself in Carinthia directly on site that these explosives are in depths that are easy to reach not only for snorkelers but also for sports divers. We have therefore decided to present today the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this can not only be a task of the federal government, but must also be financially covered with the participation of the countries. That is why we ask you to put this motion for a resolution. To give their agreement so that the Federal Minister can work in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16198	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16219	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Undisputed, the Schengen Agreement is an important work for greater peace, security and a great European unity. On the one hand, it means more freedom for citizens by removing borders, but at the same time more security – I would like to stress this in this case – for each and every one. I say this precisely in connection with a request from the liberals from the last meeting; they claimed in this request that there was an increase in crime through Schengen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that the opposite is the case: Schengen creates security. Schengen is only the appropriate legal basis for uniform border controls, uniform asylum provisions and uniform visa regulations at all. Schengen is the only basis for strengthening institutions such as EUROPOL or allowing facilities such as UCLAF – the Special Unit for Economic Crime – and computerised customs authorities. In the end, international crime can only be combated internationally – with international institutions, international contacts, and modern international law enforcement methods. To leave no doubt open, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen: I am firmly convinced that the total cost of Schengen – which amounts to 2.7 billion schilling from 1996 to 2000 alone is 2.1 billion schilling and is the largest issue – is well established, even though the cost of computerization is 590 million shilling, which is largely planned, and of course also the annual running costs of 46 million schilling. In part, the budget approaches – such as those for the hardware from 4 million to 12 million schilling – fall partly: in terms of the software to 1 million, in other institutions from 22 million to 7 million schilling. This is the best money in terms of security. This money must not only be well invested, but it is well invested if the funds are also used properly. The example of Bavaria shows that there can be great successes in the area of veils – I would like to go into this briefly. There have recently been 33 percent more arrests and arrests of public officials. I believe that the Austrian equivalent should achieve the same success – the compensatory measures – and that should be our initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I think it is a bit unfortunate that there have been different provisions between Austria and Germany and between Austria and Italy as regards follow-up. As far as Germany is concerned, as you know, after-slaughters have a right of arrest and that the posterity is unlimited in terms of space and time. On the other hand, the Austrian executive in Italy has no right of persecution, and there is a spatial limitation of – my memory – currently about ten kilometers. Mr. Federal Minister! I would urge you to hold further negotiations with Italy in order to achieve success in the field of follow-up. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Security for everyone means Schengen, and that means security to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16270	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In detail, a lot has already been debated about the budget of the interior. I would particularly like to point out the fact that last year's expenditure has increased considerably. As far as "sacrifice expenditure" is concerned, a quantum leap has taken place in the technical equipment of our executive. In my view, this is an important contribution to the overall increase in the education rate, as the crime statistics certainly show. It is therefore also right internationally that we continue this successful path. With regard to the staff savings in the interior resort, the border is particularly reached with the Gendarmerie and the police. It is therefore very important and, in my opinion, it was necessary for the amendment to prevent the saving of 200 plantations. The interior unit now has a total of 33 700 planning posts, and it is also a question of classification that the number of systematic planning posts and the actual staff is always differentiated. This is a condition that is difficult to handle, and it always leads to great problems in Upper Austria, even in my hometown. This is not a desirable condition in the long run. Special actions, such as last year's EU Presidency, which will certainly require a greater degree of internal space, are not easy to handle. I would also like to draw attention to the problem that has been used by some political actors in the last few weeks to personal profile. It was not possible to stand up to the impression that these words were less about the problem than about cheap populism. I am referring to the debate on the problem of the sexual abuse of children, young people and women. Especially with some ladies and gentlemen on the right here in this House, the relations were markedly shifted. It should be clear that the main need for assistance and protection for the victims is precisely this offence. From my point of view, it is not a problem for the perpetrators to face and be punished with all the hardships of the law, but to demand hardness to the perpetrators alone only helps the victims in a very modest way. It is interesting that, throughout Austria, resolutions are brought into political bodies, including in the communities and at national level, calling for a more severe punishment of the perpetrators, but not even victim aid in these resolutions. I think that is one thing that is very transparent and, above all, completely goes beyond the needs of the victims. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We should therefore turn to another matter in concrete action. Federal Minister! I would like to make a proposal here, which is based on the fact that, in recent times, video recordings have also been made in the case of suspects' hearings. Such equipment has been purchased. I think video recordings should be made not only in the case of suspects, but also in the case of victim surveys, especially in the first phase immediately after the act, namely in the case of ad refund. The victim's consent is, of course, the basic prerequisite for such recordings. This could prevent many unnecessary follow-up surveys and hearings, especially in the case of sexual offences. The practice clearly shows that in the subsequent procedure, questions of understanding could be avoided if there was a video recording of the initial survey. This video recording certainly gives a much more comprehensive impression of the nature and content of the data than any written documentation or protocol. The victims would be spared from being constantly confronted with these terrible experiences. In addition, this procedure would also be in line with the efforts of the judicial system and would be a further step towards the careful treatment of victims in criminal proceedings. Estimated Minister of the Interior! I would suggest an examination of this proposal by your experts. I am firmly convinced that such a use of budgetary resources is extremely useful and supports the fight against sexual abuse and related problems properly. Finally, I would like to stress once again that we naturally agree with the internal budget chapter. We see in it a powerful and appropriate budget for our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16352	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Moserund Thomas Barmüller is part of the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Karl Maitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16384	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk today about a subject that is very moving the Austrian parents, namely the prevention of addiction among young people. First of all, I would like to thank the interministerial working group between the Ministry of Family Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs – especially the criminal police advisory service – and the Ministry of Education. This exemplary cooperation has enabled a number of private initiatives to be jointly promoted and supported. I mention just a few examples across Austria: the association "PASS" in Vienna – Precaution by training young people; in Tyrol the group "Kontakt & Co" – Prevention Centre for Addiction Poison; in Lower Austria "Fun instead of drugs" in Baden bei Wien; the association "VIVID" in Styria – a cooperation between Caritas, Volkshilfe and the Land of Styria; the action "Drug-free School" throughout Austria – the entire school organisation, the school community, parents, teachers and students behind it; the "peer-education" at Vienna's general education schools; and the seventh group I can call, the "SUPRO" – the addiction-prophylaxis in Vorarlberg. – This is a cross-section through private initiatives, however, which were made possible by the joint work of four ministries. I would also like to address an Austrian initiative in the European Parliament that serves the same purpose, namely the initiative of European Deputy Hubert Pirker. It was able to achieve a two-thirds majority for its report and package on drug prevention in the European Parliament. This "Pirker report" is a great success for drug prevention. Three-quarters of all Members of the European Parliament voted in favour of this report against any form of legalisation of production, trade and consumption of synthetic drugs. The package of measures in the "Pirker Report" ranges from prevention to repression, from the control of the starting substances to the early warning system across Europe and to police coordination across Europe. Dear Minister of the Interior! To you, therefore, I would like to ask you, these Austrian successes, these Austrian concepts at the UN Special Meeting on the World Drug Problem from 8 to 10. ==References====External links== Federal Minister! As head of the Austrian delegation, you have our full support on this important subject.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16425	The next speaker is Mr Matthias Achs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16449	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been made clear in the course of today's debate that the budget for the coming year is a stable foundation for the continuation of our security policy path. In international comparison, low crime rates, considerable awareness rates and a solid basis of trust between citizens on the one hand and executives on the other, are unmistakable signs of a successful security policy, a security policy that gives protection and security to people in this country, a security policy with the necessary far-sightedness and openness for bilateral and international cooperation. Those who go through our country today and also know the situation in comparable other countries must find that there is hardly a country in which people feel as secure and comfortable as we do in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is not a matter of course, and it should not at all lead to a reluctance to self-satisfaction and to an insidious view of the dramatic developments, developments such as we have had in recent years in the area of organised crime, developments which, of course, have not been carried out in Austria. It is in favour of our country's security policy that everything has been done here and everything is still being done so that the effects of this particular form of crime can be kept limited. The development of international cooperation, police cooperation, enhanced data protection and data exchange as well as much more have led to increased opportunities for combating organised crime. Allow me to speak on the criticism of Mrs Fablé. If you are talking about a standstill in Austrian security policy, you are closing your eyes to reality or not willing to acknowledge the achievements of the Austrian executive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of the establishment of the border service to speak of a standstill, there is virtually no basis for it. As a citizen, I live in a very sensitive border region, and I can assure you that the people who live there are happy that there is the border service. People are glad that there is a professional protection of the borders and that the border service together with the customs guard and the federal army is a dense network for the defence of illegal activities. In this area, attention has been paid in recent years, and the fact that at 1. A clear assessment of the good safety performance of the border service will be achieved on September of this year. I now consider it an urgent task to ensure that quality in the field of technical possibilities keeps pace with quality in the human field. This means no more and no less than that the Austrian executive has a modern equipment in hand with that tool which it needs for continued successful work in the interests of safety. Ladies and gentlemen! As I mentioned earlier, the budget for the coming year provides a good basis for a continued solid security policy path. The new requirements are taken into account, and the changed framework conditions, such as those created by Schengen, have been included in the preparation of the budget. I am therefore convinced that, despite its leading role in the field of safety, Austria will not only be able to claim, but also to continue to expand, all the unacknowledging calls. The budget as a foundation for security policy work on the one hand and a dedicated, highly motivated executive on the other are the indispensable cornerstones of a successful Austrian security policy, which will continue to make people feel comfortable in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16512	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16534	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The internal budget chapter is marked by a slight increase in the budget approach. This is necessary in order to meet the challenges to the security of our citizens in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, about 500 000 crimes are committed in Austria per year. 500 000 crimes and crimes committed to our citizens are far too many! Federal Minister! This number must be drastically reduced! As Minister of the Interior, the whole of the Federal Government, we are all required to be the master of this problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And there is a need for targeted precautions. However, citizens also need to be informed about how they can protect themselves effectively. The actions of our executives are therefore very welcome in order to prevent crime. Accidents and disasters require particularly rapid use of our executive and auxiliary services such as fire brigade, rescue, emergency doctor et cetera. In order to achieve these objectives, there is also a need for easy understanding in addition to good equipment. Those who help quickly and efficiently help twice! This statement from practice has its accuracy. The current radio system dates back to the 1960s and no longer meets today's requirements. Radio contact between the individual auxiliary forces is not possible, each one has its own frequency, there are usually too few channels, and that hinders the forces. Getting in touch with the others is now only possible by phone or by mobile phone. Through the so-called ADONIS project – Mr Kiermaier has already pointed out – all blue light devices are to be connected together. In this way, error sources and difficulty in understanding can be avoided. The Adonis project, the new radio system for all blue-light installations, needs to be taken seriously, because it is the system of the future and forms exactly the platform that is urgently needed to bring the communication of all the authorities and organizations involved in internal security to the current technical level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The cross-border warning and information on incidents and accidents at state borders is also of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria can only achieve this by establishing a radio network in accordance with the Adonis concept. In the 1999 budget, 120 million Schillings are already planned for the planning of the project, so that a needs concept can be drawn up. Federal Minister! They have promised to implement this system under the 1999 budget by 2002. I hope that this commitment will also be respected. In any case, the ÖVP is in favour! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it makes no sense to invest in our old radio system. Now the opportunity should be used. That is why I urge the two competent ministers to start the negotiations on the financing of the new radio system as soon as possible. The safety and safety needs are of high importance in the Austrian population. We are responsible for ensuring the high security standard for the future. This budget is an important prerequisite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16600	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16621	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schlögl, over you has today been given the full horn of praise from all sides, and many times or most of it is right. In fact, it does: Since you took over the office of the Federal Minister of the Interior, the spirit of the executive has become better and more optimistic. The technical equipment has been expanded, including the weapons, and we see it in the budget that personnel have also been upgraded. But unfortunately – and this is the drops of advertising – there is the same among the same in this statistically seen upgrade, and I would like to mention an inequality in Upper Austria and ask you to stop it. According to a study you commissioned, we lack 106 gendarmerie officers. Mr President-in-Office of the State Dr. Pühringer has already spoken to you, and you have promised him that through a two-year training course you will also want to fix this manko. – We count on your promise, we count on your word, and we hope that we will be able to fix it – under quotation marks – "disability", which prevails in Upper Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! I can tell you the mood at the Gendarmerie as follows: Work is getting more and more, but overtime is expected to be reduced from 4 to 5 percent, but the tasks are only overtime. 106 posts are missing in Upper Austria, and due to the disappearance of the internal border – for which we are all – the customs officials and the financial officials had to return to the hinterland, so to speak. While there are 300 in Bavaria, in Upper Austria there are only 45 officials who are used for veils, the others have to jump in from other posts. – I think we could solve this problem by upgrading the Gendarmerie Posts. Then the full horn of praise will be poured out even more strongly by Upper Austria over you, Mr Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we want is not more officials, but more security, and I believe that together we should give the executive the means it needs, and the staff it needs to be able to provide the people with the security to which it has a right!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16670	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16691	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to present my views on drug policy in two minutes. It's very little time. But since the Minister and me not only link football, but we also have children of the same age, I would like to talk briefly about it, because I know very well that the main fear of parents with children at this age concerns drugs. The fact that there are 10,000 heroin addicts with a huge accompanying crime is forcing them to act, not just medically. I believe that everything must be done to prevent supply pressure from rising. That is why I would like to propose two measures, Minister. Firstly, with all measures to prevent Austria from being flooded by drugs, the Schengen keyword, EUROPOL, state-of-the-art detection measures. Second – just as important –: Preventing an open drug scene. Zurich made extremely bad experiences with it. We have always tried in Vienna to prevent open drug scenes. I think it's the wrong way to just observe. I think that you must be annoying and permanently controlled by strips. Above all, I would like to mention the drug-free zone that Mrs Gehrer has initiated. This is a measure that some people are calling for, but I think it is an important signal in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the end of my very "long" speech: Drug work is a very, very laborious way, not only for doctors, but also for the police. But I think it is rewarding if it succeeds to keep people away from the drug!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16737	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16759	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not agree with the Minister on our joint football history or perhaps in the future no concern about our children, but, as I mean, the good glass of wine. He and I are friends of good, yes excellent Austrian wine. You have to say that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come from a region famous for its white mountain wine. In this region, we have been dealing with the Schengen external border for a number of years now. I would now like to draw attention to some of the issues relating to the activity of the border army, which is mainly in safeguarding borders and preventing illegal immigration. Federal Minister! The present situation presents itself in such a way that one sometimes asks the question: What has actually "broken" the frontier population into being constantly secorted by the border regions? For example, it constantly controls whether the drivers have hooked, and there are increasing controls on alcohol. [[Calls.]] It seems that officials are pressured to issue more organ mandates, perhaps these are also new methods of money recovery; at least these measures have little to do with safeguarding the border or illegal border crossings. But I do not want to question the performance and quality of these officials. It was not until the night of yesterday that seven illegals were taken up near the border at Spielfeld again. They were Kosovo Albanians, and the tug was a Slovenian. One could continue the success story of these officials. I am not only allowed to report on the border control posts, Mr Minister, but also on the border controls. It was not until last week that such a job succeeded in ensuring a Portuguese car stolen in Spain. Our attentive officials on the border, in the field of play, have stopped and controlled the driver of the car due to the suspicion of fake papers. However, it was necessary to ask questions about the central station in Vienna, and it took all day – but this is not the case! – until the Spanish authorities announced in the evening that the car was actually stolen. That's how these people could be arrested. They have been driven across Europe, but it is thanks to our officials in the field that major attacks are also being made across Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is not easy in this border region – you know the topographical situation, Mr Minister – to control without any difficulty. I believe that there is currently a minimum of surveillance. Inconspicuous monitoring is especially during nighttime. Therefore, overtime must not be saved. There must be changes in savings measures, especially in sector items. I think that prevention of internal security for our people is essential, because it is not a matter of how many offences one explains, but to what extent the number of crimes decreases. For this, the population has more understanding, and I think that would be the recipe for success! Therefore, it is also important that only the executive itself – a so-called contemplation in the local population – is crucial for protection and security. This so-called serenity is not in the foreground of the sector. The security officer, the guard organ, is no longer really present on site. But that would be important for preventive security. There is still a need to strengthen the development of the future in this area. Finally, I would like to congratulate you on increasing your budget for 1999. In this context, I have one more request: To a greater extent, foreign delegations at the external borders are also coming from the eastern regions to our border posts to see how this works in Austria. People will be welcomed, the facilities will be presented to them, and coffee or even a small snack will be offered to them. However, there is no money for this: The officials pay this out of their own pocket. But the number of these delegations is increasing constantly, so I would like to encourage a small budget item to be set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16831	No further words are available. That is why I am closing the debate. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall come to the vote on the consultative group IV of the 1999 Federal Proposal. This advisory group comprises Chapter 11 – including the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate – in 1100 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 1160 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this budget chapter to give a sign in this regard. – I notice: Adopted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the debate of this group should be taken at once. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are initially voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stoisits and comrades with regard to increasing staff of security officials to combat economic crime. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution gives their assent to a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades on the financing of the detection and recovery of blind people and the means of combat from the Second World War. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – I note that the recovery of blind people was rejected by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Findings concerning the unpunished absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16913	I note that Mr Peter Rosenstingldie's session is unpunishedly distant. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-05-26-020-XX-NRSITZ-00123_d7e16941	I would also like to point out that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications 788/A to 793/A have been tabled and questions 4460/J to 4471/J have been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Wednesday, 27. May, 9 a.m. Agenda: Budget debate. The advisory groups are consulted on external, agricultural, forestry and judicial matters. Question Time is not foreseen. Today's sitting is closed.
