ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1502	I'll open the 128. Meeting of the National Council. Mrs Applebeck has been reported to be prevented. Assignments
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1533	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1600	In addition, in addition to the written communication, I agree with Mr Michael Krüger's motion for a resolution 803/A (E) concerning the licensing fees for the transfer of the World Cup to the Economic Committee. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1627	As far as the agenda is concerned, it is proposed that points 1 to 15, 16 and 17, 18 and 19, 20 to 27 and 28 to 35 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That is why we shall proceed in this way. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1655	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on design and The duration of the debate on today's agenda is as follows: A day-block speaking time of 7 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 105 minutes, ÖVP 98 minutes, Freedom 91 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 63 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. Is there any objections to this proposal? - This is not the case. This is so decided by common accord. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on the social situation 1996 (III-111/1129 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 339/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the right to unemployment insurance (1132 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 477/A (E) by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades on unemployment insurance; Loss of income accounting in case of emergency assistance (1133 of the supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 500/A by Mr Karl Oellinger and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Charity Money Act (1134 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 501/A by Mr Karl Ollinger and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act - AlVG (1135 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 558/A (E) by Mr Karl Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the Federal Social Assistance Act (1136 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 603/A (E) by Mr Karl Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the control of vocational training (1137 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 629/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr comrades on the establishment of the possibility of a beneficiary self-insurance on pension insurance for caregivers (1138 of the supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 630/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayr and Mr comrades on the inclusion of minor employees in the social security system (1139 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 634/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act and the Commercial Social Security Act (1140 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 635/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (1141 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 636/A by Dr Volker Kier and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act and the Commercial Social Security Act (1142 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 133/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the gender-neutral scheme for night work (1143 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 521/A (E) by Mr Anton Blünegger and Mr Comrades on the cost of screen glasses pursuant to § 68 Workers' Protection Act 1994 (1260 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Citizens' Initiative No. 8 on the legal recognition of the guide dog as an aid and a service dog in Austria (1264 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1867	We come to points 1 to 15 of the agenda. The debate is under one. I do not wish to have oral reports on these submissions or committee reports. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. Seven minutes have been proposed as a speaking time. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1898	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of the 15 agenda items on the Committee's affairs discussed, my speech on the social situation in 1996 and the citizens' initiative on improving the legal framework for dogs with the blind will focus. The other issues will still be discussed by my colleagues in the political groups. The 1996 report on the social situation with regard to labour market, income, social security and social expenditure is, I would say, the standard work for social politicians in this Republic. The database on the one hand and the analyses and resort activities on the other side are as always well summarized. From a liberal point of view, as an independent source, he unfortunately provides a sad confirmation of many of our fears regarding the labour market and social policy of the Austrian Federal Government. If one considers the 1996 reporting period and then considers the recent labour market data of May 1998, it is unfortunate to note that, in Austria as a whole, the number of full-time jobs offered by corresponding incomes to cover living standards has decreased, and an ever-increasing number of Austrian workers are no longer able to bear the cost of living out of a job. Furthermore, the situation of women, the situation of older workers and the poverty situation in Austria has deteriorated not only in the 1995/96 report, which was published at the end of 1997, but also in recent times, as the recent figures show, has not improved. In the last few days, the Pensionist Curia has again submitted a report for 600,000 pensioners in Austria. This particular report by the Senior Citizens' Curia shows what actually constitutes an evidence of poverty that the elderly and thus the build-up generation after the Second World War are increasingly affected by poverty. The following figures are to be read in the Social Report: 1 million Austrians live at the poverty line. Almost half of them, 48 percent, already live below the poverty line. The families affected by poverty in Austria are mainly multi-child families with two and more children, families of long-term unemployed and also families of farmers who are increasingly in social difficulties. All these groups - we have always said this in the social debates - are not sufficiently supported by social democracy only through measures in its cost of living, but also in its design possibilities. The reports give rise to our fears on a regular basis. The only positive thing, as the report shows in the May 1998 figures - Mrs Federal Minister, I am sure you will be right - is a clear reduction in unemployment among the group of 15-30 years. Considering the years 1995, 1996 to 1998 and specifically following the last development from 1997 to 1998, the ORF training action with 1,500 newly created jobs in the substance was as efficient as the concepts of the Austrian Federal Government, with which 1 468 jobs were created during the same period. I say this without haems, but the resources spent on this apprenticeship initiative by the Austrian Federal Government and, by comparison, those of the Austrian radio action are already very distinct. I believe that Mr Bundeskanzler has done well to get involved in the ORF's action now, because it was more successful with the creation of 1,500 jobs over a short period of time than the Austrian Federal Government in the annual period, which shows the comparison of the figures of May 1998 with those of May 1997 as regards the unemployment of the 15 to 30 years old. It is also terrifying what small resources people in the Republic of Austria still have to get through with. If you look at this report, you can read the following: The average monthly unemployment benefit in the unemployed was 8 660 s, the mean unemployment benefit for men was 9 000 s, but the average for women was only 7 400 s. The average emergency aid amounted to 7 300 s. For women, for 6 300 s. 30 percent of the women receiving emergency aid, a monthly allowance of no more than 4 900 s was required in the year under review. It is also evident that during the period 1995 to 1997 in the context of unemployment and reintegration into the labour market for women did not improve the situation of child care. It is only to be hoped that the second kindergarten billion, which de facto will make up about 600 million schilling again, will change this situation. We liberals have always argued to introduce a family check in order to promote the very positive establishment of the mother-in-law more socially, also in view of the fact that for women who have several children and who qualify as mothers in their environment of life, this means an additional source of income for the time when they devote themselves to childcare. I therefore believe that, although this social report should be seen as quite positive from its wording and from its composition, it does not concern the listed social standards in Austria. There would be, as I have already said, a series of measures for the elderly, for the elderly, for the agricultural sector, but also for women, which should be put in place quickly, because the groups concerned have nothing to do with their promises to help them, but de facto in practice only slightly improve in implementation. I would like to look at the citizens' initiative on the legal recognition of the blind dog as an aid during the remaining minute of my speaking time. I believe that the disabled have a right to promote their mobility and to receive their most important means - in this case the rehabilitation dog, the signal dog, the blind dog, the partner dog and the combination dog for the disabled - in the form provided for in the citizens' initiative. If you know how I am on the market as a veterinarian, you know that, because of the attempts to pull hundreds of thousands of schillings out of the bag with unfit dogs, it is quite justified to bring about a future system in this area in accordance with social security. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in fact in need of this motion for a resolution. After four years of discussion, from 1994 to today, we liberals would have expected to change the German law on the disabled, as proposed by the disabled. Unfortunately, this has remained to this day. I hope, Mrs Bundesminister, that the resolution addressed to you will at least lead to the fact that negotiations will not be postponed on the back of those concerned until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, because the need for action and regulation in this area is urgent from our free point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1970	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e1988	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to oppose the accusation that I cannot deal with all the chapters on time-consuming grounds, because last time I was accused of solidarity with my colleagues in the club. I would now like to draw up a chapter of the Social Report, namely that on employment. The issue of employment was of the highest importance in the Social Report in 1996. There has also recently been an EU employment summit and a national action plan for employment, Austria has been very active in this area. I have looked at the mediating activities of the AMS, and I have noticed that 46 percent of companies are already using the AMS. In 1995, it was still less than 43.5 percent. That means an increase of 2.5 percent! Another proof of the AMS' professionalism seems to me that 75 percent of the open jobs could be occupied within a month. We had 657,000 access to unemployment in Austria in 1996, but 706,000 exits from unemployment. I therefore say this so clearly because it is always claimed that the unemployed are not interested in getting work as quickly as possible. I think that this is a massive contradiction. 88 per cent of the unemployed were unemployed over a period of less than 6 months - which is admittedly long enough - only 9 per cent longer than 6 months and 3 per cent longer than 12 months. The AMS has focused on these groups, namely the long-term unemployed. In 1995, 5 000 long-term unemployed were added to employment. Another focus is on re-enters; of course, these are women, because this means family-related vocational interruption. In 1996, more than 10 000 childcare aid was granted for the first time. People with caregivers express very often the desire for part-time work. In 1995, on average, 398 000 women and 86 000 men were part-time. I was recently in Brussels, and there a representative of Belgium described problems in terms of part-time work, how we could know them from the field of small employees and partly already eliminate them. In our opinion, the legal protection of part-time workers in Austria is certainly positive, but part-time, of course, only means part-time work and has a corresponding impact on old-age insurance. On the subject of lowliness of mind, I must unfortunately say to God that there are efforts to undermine the relevant regulations. A daily parent initiative in Salzburg now pushes slightly busy women into "new independence". In other words, they are allowed to look for their own care cases, then have to submit to their association an application to whether they are allowed to care for the said child at all, and are "new self-employed" after receipt of the permit. - That's how you can do it! We pass laws to help the poorest workers, but we push them out of the social network again. Ladies and gentlemen! The report also addresses improved training opportunities in health and social professions. That is quite positive. But what does training look like with employment? - According to expert opinion, we find the jobs of the future in this area. I have already mentioned, however, in the last year's discussion, how it is with the mobile relief services and the settlement arrangements with the countries. So far, nothing has changed. It is therefore not possible to create additional jobs. There is also a booming black market in this area. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called Bohemian People's Aid. While the countries are forcing the establishment of old houses, there is still no comprehensive range of mobile facilities. Another point is youth employment. Austria has the lowest youth unemployment rate! We have also continually adopted appropriate measures, as early as 1996. I can remind you that from 1. In July 1997, for the first two years of teaching, health insurance contributions are not paid and in the third year of teaching only one employee is cancelled. In 1996, the number of beneficiaries of youth-specific measures was at least 7,000. However, in 1998 and 1999, there are now proven to be strong years of birth on the labour market, and we are still going to adopt a whole set of measures with regard to the Youth Training Security Act today. We know what it means when young people have no prospects. Our actions will try to prevent this. Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment is a scourge! But again and again the abuse discussion is also being held. In this context, I only remember the "social hammock"! Is not what we call abuse really just resignation? - We have taken action against the isolated cases of involuntary or self-indebted unemployment. However, the number of sanctions is low, and it has hardly increased in 1995/1996. I think this is another example of the fact that this repeated abuse debate is not in place and that the wrong people, namely those who unfortunately do not have a job, are being played out against those who have jobs. I have decided to say even more, I would like to address the reduction of overtime and to say a little more about the reduction of working time. Hopefully I'll have another opportunity. I also wanted to deal with various requests, particularly those relating to small employees. Unfortunately, the speaking time is not permitted, and I let it be used out of solidarity with my following speakers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2047	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2066	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The inventor of the "social hammock" unfortunately... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (from the Bureau to his place) Is here!]] Ah, he's coming back! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is not the inventor!]] No, he's not the inventor, that's right. No, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is Helmut Kohl!]] I do not want to assign the attack premium for the invention to Mr. Klubobmann Khol, but he is the thematician of the "social hammock"! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The user!]] The user of the social hammock as a cue! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! Don't!]] She'll be rolled together and then used as a cue! Klubobmann Khol is present, so I recommend the reading of the Social Report. [[Federal Minister Hostasch talks with the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, Mr. Feurstein is distracted by you. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein returns to his place.]] I recommend Mr Klubobmann Khol the reading of the Social Report, he is instructive. There he can look for the "social hammock", for example in that chapter dealing with the unemployed. This shows a dramatic, sustainable increase in long-term unemployment while at the same time increasing unemployment rates. The numbers vary slightly, but are very high! I therefore think that it is more than cynical to call the long-term unemployed in the context of a decline in job openings as those who are in the "social hammock". In addition, the expression "social hammock" is "toxic" in several ways, because it gives the impression that it is very comfortable in this hammock that, so to speak, Piña Colada is served, and the leisure stress is the only problem. In fact, the average unemployment benefit is only 9 000 S, the average emergency aid is only 7 300 S. If you differentiate by sex, you will notice that in women the average unemployment benefit is 7 400 s and the average emergency aid is 6 300 s. I do not know whether such amounts can be associated with the word "manufactured" because I am convinced that, in view of the poverty situation of these people and the also psychologically very bad constitution of the long-term unemployed, the word "manufactured" is often malignant, but may be compatible with a Christian-democratic or social world view, because it has something "Romantic" or perhaps "nostalgic" in itself. I do not think we have any reason to accept this social report easily, because it clearly states that our society of prosperity has come to the limits of its ability to act justly. Total wealth is increasing, but the social situation tends to deteriorate. This is also evident by a view of the distribution of income: People's income rose by 0.6%, but real income fell by 2.2%. In other words, there is also a tax and tax sheer, and that this has a particularly unfavourable effect on the "inhabitants of the social hammock", I would just like to mention the completeness half once again. If we take into account that there has been no real pension reform, but the pension burden rate has increased over the last few years from 593 over 601 to 616 - that is, 616 pensioners per 1,000 employees - then we must say that there is no reason for too great optimism and for euphoria. That's what it really looks like: Pension problems - unsolved!, unemployment situation - stagnating to unsolved!, social transfers - sinking!, stay in the social system - sinking!, cuts are announced all around. Mr Reitsamer! I understand you, if you pay particular attention to youth unemployment, cut the problems of apprentices and announce the birth-like years - that's demography - but I ask you: Where are the efficient answers? [[Abg. Ritsmer: I have said that another law is coming!]] Last year, they have spent almost all their resources to reduce the youth unemployment of one year in the field of apprentices, which is admittedly worthwhile, but now, in the following year, you have no more resources. [[Abg. Rider: We decide something today!]] There will be a law to discuss these days, but - believe me! - even this law will not solve the problem, but at best breast-feeding the pain. I am not saying that it is bad to satisfy the pain - I do not want the patient to get out without pain tablets - but if you do not get hold of the symptoms, then you will not solve the problem. Mrs Reitsamer! I would like to support the employment insurance provided by you. However, you have partly failed to ensure that, in a very specific form, you have ultimately equated the free contracts of services with other services, rather than recognizing that there are only two possibilities: Either the free service contract is a circumvention and, in fact, a real service relationship - then it belongs fully to labour law - or it is a service contract, in fact a real independence - then it is not a service contract, but even independence. We have already put forward proposals on this issue in this House - and we will do it again - which will remove free workers as such from social security law and instead apply the following rules: If a person is a real servant, who can be determined by the characteristics of the employment relationship, then he is ASVG-compulsory and is, moreover, under the full regime of labour law and the related aspects of protection. However, if someone is a "new self-employed person" who has only chosen the legal form of a "free service contract", he is GSVG liable and, moreover, income tax and not payable tax. They should dare to define common delimitations in an inter-ministerial effort, not only by the fact that the individual laws contain, so to speak, equal definitions, but also by expressing that self-employment means ASVG and wage tax liability, self-employment, GSVG and income tax liability. This should be defined in a consistent, stringent form, so that there is no "escape" - in the positive sense of the word, in the sense of social obligation of every income achieved. The fact that you have started in your efforts with the small employees is not unsympathetic, on the one hand - from a naïve intention - on the other hand, I do not know why you have not taken the step of taking employers' contributions from the totals of wages at the same percentages. This would have been an essential step in that every wage schilling carries the same social burden, and that would be particularly important because many circumvention and evasion operations, which can still be found in the area of the self-employed, would not be possible anymore. I would also like to make a comment on the poverty report - also to the address, among other things, of the clubman of the ÖVP. Study the figures on child poverty in the social report. Study her, please! 152 000 children live below the poverty line, mostly in connection with their families. However, these are often not families in the norm-typical sense, but single and single parents. They live far below the poverty line. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Most of the farmers' children!]] Often rural families, quite right. It is precisely with that measure, which you are so proud of, namely with the family reform, that you have not provided a significant remedy. I have another statement from one of your employees in the ear, which reads: If you are concerned about child poverty - this is an original quote of an ÖVP employee - then we wish you good luck, that is not our problem! [[Deputies Gatterer and Großruck: Who said this?]] That was in the course of a discussion in the family ministry! [[Abg. Big Truck: Names!]] I'm not going to show you these people. He is a worthy employee of the Federal Minister Bartenstein. Let it be used. [[Call the ÖVP:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'll tell you later. I'm not going to put the name in the record from this speaker's mouth. [[Abg. Großruck: Who said that?]] Believe me. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] In between, as much as you want, you doubt the accuracy of my statement, call me a shift as you want, but I'm telling you expressis verbis: [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: No! Simply and simply an inventor of falsehoods!]] That's not our target group! In my opinion, social policy can only be seen as a target group, namely the people living below the poverty line! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Do you understand me? That is a question of concern. If you may have been so honest for a moment to say that you have a different target group, then that is quite legitimate politically. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: You invent falsehoods!]] But it's unpleasant when it's publicly said. That's what I'm talking about. [[Abg. Gatterer: Then say the name!]] .. I would therefore like to say to you once again: Let such insults as "social hammock"... [[Abg. Großruck: Who said that? Call the name!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I have told you that from this point of view I will not bring to the Minutes a self-deserving employee of Federal Minister Bartenstein, but I will tell you afterwards. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Why do you quote him then?]] I'm not going to let you figure this out, I'm not going to get it from this... No, Mr. Klubobmann Khol. [[Abg. Koppler: (in the direction of Abg. Rosemarie Bauer) He'll tell you anyway! - call of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Maybe that's your way. I'm satisfied with the authentic message. I had to say that in this House once. Do what you want! You won't force me to... [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: If you don't know, then you'll be silent at all!]] Do whatever you want, my colleague, swimmer! They will not cause me to expose to this room those people who have only done what his Federal Minister has told him. You understand me! In all these cases, the head office is responsible and not the employee. [[Interlocutors Rosemarie Bauer and Großruck.]] That's why I'm not telling you from this speaker's mouth! I can't do that. You can play rumpel sticks as long as you want. I'll tell you again: Read the chapter on child poverty, then perhaps some "grainbird" will come up to you! [[Abg. Dr. Swimmer: You are the rumpel stylus: Oh how good that no one knows...!]] It was important to me to say that, because I am not going to let you out on this question. If you don't believe that, you don't believe me. This is completely indifferent to me, because in the final effect you have done exactly what does not help in the problem of child poverty. The colleague mentioned was only honest enough to admit that. Describing You don't want him now! If you get so mad, I'll think about how I'm going to do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2411	Next speaker is Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2429	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would first like to thank you very much, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for drawing up this report. I would like to thank the officials, staff members of the Ministry and all those who have contributed to this report. It is not true that this report - although it is being debated late here in the House - is only a standard work for us, but it is a very essential means, a valuable reference work, an extensive cooperation and actually also shows developments. That is why this report is very, very important for all those involved in social policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It can also be read from this report that the social policy of this government is generally given a good witness. It is true that, for the first time, a motion for a resolution from this House has been included in this report - and I think this is very positive - that there is a great deal of thought about poverty and poverty reduction in Austria, which can be seen and incorporated into this report. Since this report is very extensive, I would like to focus on this issue today. According to this report, 5 per cent of the Austrians fall under the poverty rate and 11 per cent of the Austrians are at risk of poverty, with poverty being defined as a means of recording - unlike in other countries where poverty is simply defined as follows: not having money for the most necessary needs - in Austria, poverty is defined in such a way that income is less than half of the monthly average income per capita. That's what I wanted to say at the beginning. But I would also like to stress that we, too, here in this House, must focus very much on the most affected groups. It has already been said that children's-rich families, single-parent households, unemployed households - and it is very bad when it comes to long-term unemployed - are households of small farmers and small businessmen, host families and, above all, households whose members are auxiliary workers and which therefore have very low incomes. The situation usually gets worse when divorce occurs when a disabled child is in the family, when a serious illness occurs with a family member, or if, whatever happens very often, families are highly indebted. It is also true that today - and this is what I believe to be positive - poverty has nothing to do with old age. We were really able to assure old people that they were not at risk of poverty. But it is very likely that some children are at risk of poverty: 60 percent of the poor children live in households with three or more children or in single-parent households. I would like to say to the single-parent households: In my opinion, it is very surprising that half of all single parents indicate that they do not receive support for themselves or for their children from the fathers of their children. I believe, Madam Minister, that this is something that should be discussed in detail. In the case of multiple-child families, it is as follows: The more children there are, the more difficult it is to have a second income. That means mothers usually stay at home. One child still employs 62 percent of women, from three children only 30 percent. The poverty report also shows that transfers in Austria are very likely to reach poorer families. This is clearly shown: The lower incomes are received 74 percent of all family transfers, with 78 percent of unemployment benefits, rents and social assistance, of course, also going to 88 percent in this area. That is to say, there is a very high degree of confidence in really promoting and helping the lower layers, which have only a low income. I would also like to see the poverty report included in the Social Report in the future. But I would also like - we have decided in the Subcommittee on Women's Demand - that there is more gender specific data. It is striking to note that in the case of families at risk of poverty, it is not possible to read from this report who has funds in the family, which members of the family can have what income and what money they can have. However, I would like to point out that since the 1996 report of the present report, in which these data are presented, we have found many solutions to reduce poverty in Austria. I believe that this is the ultimate goal for all of us. Family tax reform, which will bring 6 000 S more per child in the future, is a very important step for multi-child families. This will also provide better support for single-parents. The National Employment Action Plan will, of course, help to reduce unemployment in Austria. However, I would like to see a number of things happening in the area of women and education, because the poverty report also clearly shows: The worse the training is, the greater the danger of falling into the poverty trap. I would also like to see sufficient opportunities for child care so that work balance or part-time employment and family life - especially for women - can be reconciled. I believe that the fight against poverty must be on the top of the agenda. I would also like to refer very briefly to the Citizens' Initiative No. I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. It is about the dogs of the blind. I believe it is important that the blind really be granted this aid. It is equally important, however, that there should generally be a definition of the term "rehabilitation dog". There are yes signal dogs, partnership dogs, service dogs, social dogs and therapy dogs. I believe that we must first come to a definition. One must also determine what one expects from the schools in terms of training these dogs, what these dogs can do, how that is defined. We should all try together to find a solution. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! You know how urgent the solution to this problem is: We put our full trust in you and ask you to find a solution quickly in the interests of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2518	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, but I have to consider whether it is a self-employed or a self-employed request, because there can generally be no amendment to unself-employed requests. I would ask that I make the decision on this matter a point. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2540	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join my predecessor with regard to those areas in which she has expressed thanks to the civil servants for this social report: Yes, the Social Report is still a very useful source. But - and with that I am already distinguishing myself from Mrs Gatterer's comments - I do not see it as rosy as regards the positive results for this federal government or for the work of the government parties, which, according to Mr Gatterer, is to be read out of this report. Because I can't recognize him. I am not going to get into detail now, but I would like to mention two facts. First: The net real income, which has already been said today, fell by 2.2 percent in 1996. Secondly, it is always very useful: the figures on wages and salaries: In the past, wages and salaries figures were below 10 000 S gross. These were still those times when in the trade unions the demand for 10 000 s gross was made when the demand had been bad on the agenda. In the meantime, these 10,000 s are no longer on the agenda, but only those wages and salaries below 12 000 s. Mr Koppler! I am convinced that there are also some who are now below the 12 000 S limit, which earn less than 10 000 s. That's why we have a problem. However, the real problem with this number is the following: There were 226,000 people in Austria in 1996 who earned less than 12 000 S for full-time work or for full-time work equivalents - that is, if they were only working part-time but paid for full-time work. 226,000 people, a quarter of a million! What is even more amazing is the fact that in 1995 there were not much more, namely 240 000 people. This means - although there has been a steady development since the end of the 1980s - that it was at the beginning with jumps of 60 000 or 70 000 per year, which then decreased - that it is now coming to an end. Ladies and gentlemen! This is actually a serious incision. This is especially the address of the colleague Gatterer: There is no reason to rejoice if a quarter of a million people in this country still earn only 12,000 s gross for full - time work. I do not have to tell you what the net means, which actually remains, which of this amount of not even 10 000 s must be paid. I suppose you know. It cannot be said, however, that in a country like Austria, which has a certain wealth, there is a certain difference of prosperity - also to Mr Stumpful, but not only to him - a net income of 10 000 s per month for 40 hours of work per week - Mr President, even if you now put on the fines, it is enough. [[Abg. Koppler: To the address of Stummvoll!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: What?]] One has not gone on in this question. A quarter of a million people still earn almost unchanged under 10,000 S. Mrs. Bauer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I didn't understand you. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: In tomorrow's "Krone" there is still a professional group!]] There's another professional group. It can be. However, I would like to point out that there is nothing that - if you read this report - would really be noted, Mrs Gatterer, the work of the Federal Government. There is little to be found that gives rise to satisfying self - praise. That was just two numbers. I call you a third number; this is the one that is really worrying me, although I do not believe that under the social issue we should only discuss poverty. I would also like to make a difference from Mr Kier. This number is indeed impressive, it has already been mentioned. There are, as this Social Report says, 410 000 people in Austria who are poor, where due to certain factors it was calculated that they are actually poor. They are not only poor in income, but they can be described as actually poor. That's about 5 percent of the population. The question is now - and there is a long way to go in this social report - as follows: How do these 400,000 people experience some social network that has been strained for them, or social hammock support? Where do these 400,000 people land? - Since they are poor people, who are somehow perplexed by other social systems, they should be in social assistance. But it looks even darker. They cannot have landed in social assistance because, in the context of social assistance, this group of 400,000 people - if one spends this figure, paragraph 8 on the social expenditure of the countries for permanent support and assistance in the context of social assistance - is actually given some serious importance. This is a figure which refers to the year 1995, which in 1994 was still 1.7 billion schilling. I know that these figures are not accurate. There is still the problem of completely different data sets in the countries. Mrs. Federal Minister! Should it be 2 or 3 billion schilling? We both know that 2 or 3 billion schilling is not enough for 400,000 people. There is no way to combat poverty either. That's not enough. 2 to 3 billion schilling for 400,000 people is "stretching" this republic! I have done me the luxury of comparing this number from Austria with the only one available from the Federal Republic of Germany. There, the social system is similar to that in Austria; although it is not identical, it is largely the same. It can be very well compared in certain positions. I know that in Germany the unemployment rate is much higher, but in the case of social assistance - i.e. they are supported - over two and a half million people are in the Federal Republic of Germany. These receive support from the German social assistance, and are used... - Even if one is the particular situation of emergency workers - there it is said: [[Abg. Gatterer: It is clear that there are more people there...!]] Unemployment benefiters - and their way into the social assistance system - remain quite different figures. Really, you should look at that! In the Federal Republic of Germany, a sum of around 200 billion schilling is spent on these two and a half million people. It was converted to Austria: Austria should spend 20 billion schillings on this group of persons. That would be an amount that would be roughly suited to enable them to have a minimum level of social assistance, from which one can also live. However, these are not available in Austria. This is the real problem, which I believe would be the result of this social report. We are still dealing with very serious shortcomings in the area of poverty reduction. I will now come to my colleague Kier. Mr Kier said that the centre of social policy was to combat poverty. - That's a very difficult statement. I don't mean that! Even though I believe that, under the special conditions in Austria, poverty is slowly spreading back into the joints of the social network, poverty reduction and poverty policy, I still believe that it would be the primary task of social policy to create social cohesion. If, from this point of view, I look at the data of the social report, when I see how much is changed from the social security systems which are not pension schemes, as the social transfer of family benefits, unemployment benefits, health insurance and so on - there is also a reverse transfer - I must note that net pension insurance remains as the absolutely favored group. It is not against the fact that pensioners should receive sufficient pensions. But if the social system can no longer be included at the expense of certain groups and other groups that are not yet included - and I would mention, for example, the emergency workers who, if they are women on the average, have to deal with less than 7 000 S, who have to live of 4000, 5 000 or 6 000 S and have no further income - and if I see that 100 000 people with less benefits than they are possible with social assistance and with the compensation allowance for pensioners, I must say: There is no reason at all to give a positive witness to this Austrian social system - despite the undisputed benefits in recent decades! This is the real problem and, for us, the reason why we still have to reject this social report: not because of the good work, but because of the bad policy of the Federal Government on key issues of social policy in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2629	The next speaker is Mr Hums. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2647	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! This year, we were able to decide on a budget with Euro quality and thus ensure that Austria immediately participates in the euro. This is important for the economy, for jobs and for the longer term, of course, also important for ensuring the social system. The 1996 Social Report recalls that, in 1995 and 1996, it was an essential task in the social field to consolidate our budget accordingly in an economically worse period and to maintain the quality of the Austrian social system. [[Abg. Blünegger: Through load packs!]] I believe that we have achieved this essentially. In a series of discussions with the social partners, with the other stakeholders, we have led to the preparation of budget consolidation in 1995/96 and at the same time to maintain the social system in its quality. Furthermore, it was also possible, at a time of neoliberalism, to discuss in many areas whether or not social security could be achieved, to take the first steps - which are crucial steps - to ensure that every income from employment is linked to social security from a certain level and to a certain level. Until the end of this path, however, some time will pass. Mr Kier! I cannot follow your argument that this would have created uncertainty for anyone. We have brought many people with this measure to social security for the first time, and we have tried to prevent more and more working conditions from being pushed out of the social security system. In the future, it will become increasingly difficult to estimate who is self-employed and who is self-employed, the boundaries become ever more fluid. The objective can therefore only be a general social security scheme. This is certainly not reachable from today to tomorrow, but the first steps have already been taken, and this in a critical phase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This morning, criticism was voiced on the part of the liberals that more tax consolidation was being done than with the shortfall of expenditure. To this end, I must say: I do not feel that as a social-thinking person as a criticism. On the contrary! Tell me where we should have cut shorts in the social field! [[Abg. Gaugg: With the politicians!]] Measures have been taken - you can't consolidate without anyone noticing - but we certainly would not want to make any more savings. In order to strain the bow to the next tax reform: I also believe that, as Dr Novotny rightly said in the early days, we must take a very close look at the next tax reform, that we do not pre-programme savings packages of the future now, in an economically good time. The tax reform must therefore, as the Minister of Finance has repeatedly explained, be taken into consideration and should essentially only bring tax reliefs to the lower and middle income groups. But if it is said that more has been done on the tax side in budgetary consolidation, we must also remember that in the years before - at a time that was economically better - very much on the tax side, many advantages have been created for the economy and for high incomes which are not sustainable in an economically weaker period. Some sentences also concern health insurance in the short time available to me. In 1996 the opposition expressed its opinion and wrote by newspapers that health insurance was no longer reorganised, that the health system in Austria could not be financed. With a whole package of measures, in which everyone has really participated, we have financially rehabilitated health insurance, but there is no reason to become overconfidence in it now. [[Abg. Meisinger: That was a scrapping action!]] Therefore, from this point of view, from the point of view of appeal to the doctors - who have really been well involved in 1996 with a reasonable fee policy - I would like to maintain this good cooperation for the future. It was very crucial that we could also extend the period of sickness benefit due to the favourable development of health insurance. Then: At that time, the General Assembly of the Vienna Regional Health Fund contributed to the dramatic situation. As a result of the financial situation, it was necessary to decide to limit the sickness allowance to 26 weeks. It is only with a law that we have decided here in the House - and I thank everyone for this - that the minimum amount of sickness benefits will be extended to one year. We are happy about this - and we wished to do so at the time - that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse can already go back to a 78-week sickness allowance. I call on all other health insurance companies to follow this example. But we must not become overconfident and forget about consolidation measures in an economically good time. I would like to express my warm thanks once again to the employees of the Social Ministry as the former head of the department. For them were the two years 1995 and 1996 - colleague Feurstein will confirm this - really years that have led to the limits of loadability: endless overtime, very many conversations. The budget consolidation and the safeguarding of our social system prove: It wasn't for nothing. My warm thanks to the employees in the Social Ministry!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2718	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Guggenberger, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Annemarie Reitsamer, Edeltraud Gatterer and comrades are properly introduced, is permitted and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2739	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Do you say, Mrs Bundesminister, that you do not get the bad conscience if you read news reports now, in which it is stated that the labour market service is running a budget alert? That's what it says: There's no money! Every time I referred to you, whether in the Committee on Social Affairs or here in the plenary, you argued that there was a lack of money. In this respect, I would like to have a concrete answer from you. Colleague Hums seems to be living in a shadow world: Everything's so rosy, everything's so beautiful! [[Abg. Koppler: He didn't say that!]] Mr Oberschlau, Mr Novotny, is not here again, otherwise I would have asked him why it is absolutely possible in Holland that the tax rate will fall by 5 per cent within 10 years. There it goes - in his opinion and according to his research this seems not to work. Therefore, the entire tax reform must be called into question. I will now read to you the following: "The oberösterreichische Landesbildungsconferencing, "Pure capitalism - it's enough for us' found quite clear words: Austria is the third largest country in the EU. Nevertheless, 800 000 to 1,500 000 people in Austria are poor." - ÖGB-Rednerdienst, follow-up to October 1997. - That's your kind of social policy! This is the social policy of the Social Democratic Party! There was an employment summit in Luxembourg, in which it was said that the active share of employment measures should be 20 percent. In Austria it is 8 percent. Where are the appropriate measures? - You're missing the whole thing. 216,000 early pensioners, 219,000 unemployed - this represents an increase of 3.7 percent compared to the previous year. The increase in heavy averages is even 11.6 percent compared to the previous year. In February 1998 the unemployment rate was 10.2 percent. They always mention that there is an increase in employment rates. That's right, but most of the additional jobs are part-time jobs and low-cost jobs. There are still 2 779 job seekers, and this, although the Federal Government has invested 2 billion schilling in one year of apprenticeship employment. There are even 11 086 job seekers who are not immediately available. In other words, you have "parked" 11 000 young people in the middle schools and in the secondary places, waiting for a job. The worst and most dramatic in the development of unemployment statistics is the rise in the unemployment rate in the over 50s and over 55s. There has been a very dubious government decision not too long ago, according to which each 55-year-old and every 60-year-old should have a guarantee of employment of at least one year. Where is the result, Mrs Bundesminister, where has it been? - There is an increase in the unemployment rate of over 55 years of 24.3 percent. In view of this, you can't pretend to be all right. I can tell you the following: We can quietly discuss the report on the social situation over the year 1996, but I think more importantly that we are looking to the future and asking the questions: Where are the signals for the unemployed? Where are the tax reliefs? What about the National Action Plan for Employment, which I would like to call the "Pact of Wrong Hope"? Where are all the privatisation proceeds you have achieved with the sale of Bank Austria, which you will achieve with the sale of the Dorotheum, with the post-sparage sale and similar? Where are these funds, where are these funds? The National Action Plan for Employment, which you so praised, is criticized in the "EURO ECHO - The Magazine for Austrian Europeans", which is published by European-friendly people. It says in this regard that it is vague information without concrete objectives. It says literally: "Most countries - including Austria - do not "set quantifiable employment policy targets, which could measure the success or failure of the measures." That's the criticism I'm making. I expect a Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to propose employment measures and a corresponding reduction in labour costs.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2777	The next speaker is Mrs Ridi Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2795	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The social report has already been reported positively several times today and has also been thanked for it. I personally would like to address a very small part of the report, although it shows only one page, which, as I believe, is all the more important, namely the area of employment policy - the European Social Fund. Austria has received around 7.6 billion schilling from the European Social Fund from 1995 to 1997. In the Objective 3 area over 29 000 grants were granted in the reporting period, over 7 000 in the Objective 4 area and 618 in the regional areas. It is interesting how ESF funds flow. These funds come directly from the EU pot via the Social Ministry to the Federal Business Office of the AMS, and from there on goes further to the national business offices, which are then obliged to make regional funds available and to find transnational partners for projects. However, it is difficult to manage these funds in such a way that they actually return to the taxpayer. This pot now remains to the 90 million schillings that are not used. In some federal states, information has been distributed - unfortunately it has not been done until the Styria, it may be that the Semmering Tunnel plays a little part - that funds are available at the level of 90 million schilling. Date of filing: 15. ==References== It is interesting, however, that this letter indicates that since the end of May - apologise if I put it so salopp - 25 million schillings have been accepted by the AMS, 11 million by the Federal Social Offices and 18.6 million by the Federal Ministry of Education and Art. I would like to know what is happening to this and why - I know it is difficult - there is no better flow of these resources. I know, Mrs Minister, that you are really doing a lot in this respect, but within 14 days it is very difficult to find transnational partners and to raise own resources, i.e. 50 percent of them from the country, especially for women's projects - "NOW" and "COMLOYMENT". I have cited this example in order to make improvements in the future. The next point I would like to make is the field of special forms of working time. The social report states that in recent years some surveys have been carried out on different new forms of working time flexibility. There may be overlaps, but the models are not shown. I would like to ask you, since we are always asked by companies which models are now being added to this. I think back with shudders of the discussion about the innovation of the working time system when it said how bad and how terrible everything is in terms of flexibility, and read in the brochure "it works - Early labour market policy", that also representatives of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs appeal to everyone and one employee says: "In my opinion, the entrepreneurs do not yet make full use of the legal possibilities currently in force! I wish all those involved more courage and innovation in the design of working time." I believe that this is one of the most beautiful calls in this direction. The labour market service is now also heading towards annual working time, where it is possible to work less or more on an hourly basis of 300 hours. Finally, Mrs Minister, one more request. I've had some time ago in In the course of the women's desire, a request was made to you concerning the gender statistics. The answer was tailored to the labour market service, but not to the social report. My colleague, Edeltraud Gatterer, has already mentioned this. I believe that gender statistics would be very necessary and that the very good work of the Social Report would be perfect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2844	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. - Would you like to have a speaking time? - No, I don't.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2863	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the 1996 Social Report, namely the income situation of men and women. According to the 1996 Social Report, Wages of male workers by 34 percent above those of the workers, the salaries of male employees by 41 percent above those of female employees. Even in the case of equal qualifications, the merits of women are clearly lower than those of men. Furthermore, the average working-time standardised earnings of men are 18 percent of university and university graduates and 31 percent of graduates of higher education schools above those of women. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know the big differences in income between women and men for years. We know about the gender segmentation at the workplace. The broad discussion has long led to the legitimate demand for equal pay for comparable or equivalent work in the room. The concept of equal work is therefore so significant for the remuneration of women because women typically do work other than men and therefore cannot grasp the principle of equal pay for work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Thus, activities do not have a certain value, but their appreciation is very often linked in the daily view to the fact that they are carried out by groups. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that many of the activities carried out by women are considered uncomplicated or easy and are therefore classified as low. But as soon as men take on the same activity, they are suddenly assessed in their demands much more complicated and therefore higher. Another thing is added. Social-scientific study of the job segmentation proves: The higher the proportion of women in a professional group, the lower the average wage level. What we need, therefore, is finally a re-evaluation of the work, because only through this long - not least through the desire for women - can we face injustice in the payment between man and woman. I am particularly calling on the ladies of the EIA to finally announce this not only here in Sunday's speeches, but also to make a strong contribution to the fact that it can happen. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to turn to item 15 on the citizens' initiative number 8. As I said in the Committee on Budgets, I think that the resolution to express it is a point of order. For a year, the initiative concerning legal recognition of the blind dog as an aid and a service dog in Austria is here in the Hohes Haus. Nothing's happened! And now discussions are to be held on the harmonization of the procedure and on the possibilities of improving the legal framework for the recognition of dogs with the blind. There is no common procedure here, and there is no time limit - even in the resolution that has now been reintroduced - in which it says: equally. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Is this another delay? Do you really believe that we are doing a service to our fellow citizens who have to live with their disability? In order to avoid any further delay, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2939	The motion for a resolution, which has just been presented, is sufficiently supported, streamlined in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mrs. Hostasch. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e2960	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to make a few comments from my point of view in the current debate. I would like to thank you for the excellent words you have given to my employees for the preparation of the 1996 Social Report. I hope that this report, but not only this, but also other publications of my department, will be important guidance and decision-making aids for your political work. We have all tried very hard - Mr Hums was not least the initiator of this report - to provide you with a very comprehensive information. Of course, I would like to take up the suggestion made by Mr Edeltraud Gatterer and Mr Ridi Steibl to make even more gender-specific representations. If we look at the report, I think it is understandable that we have already made great efforts to take account of this common concern, but we will try to further develop it wherever it is possible. I would also like to point out that it is the first time that we have included in a social report the subject of poverty, the risk of poverty, in the knowledge that, of course, political demands are made when such a subject is mentioned in a social report. I would also like to thank you very much for the discussion on this subject. I think it is particularly important to point out that a definition of risk of poverty and poverty has been sought as a basis for decision-making for future policy decisions. You can read in the report that we have tried to find a suitable definition that also meets international standards. Our target groups in the fight against poverty have already been mentioned in the debate: These are unemployed households, host families, families in which there is only one single parent or single parent, and child-rich families with only one earner or earner. In particular, this concerns the development of incomes and transfers, which need to be needs-oriented and socially oriented, in future policy. Mr Oellinger has very massively criticised labour market policy, which criticises employment policy in our country. I do not want to please anything, and we have talked in this House very often about the need for even stronger initiatives to combat unemployment, but Austria's policy cannot be as bad as it can be if a very positive outcome is confirmed by recognized economic institutions in a labour market and unemployment ranking. In this ranking, all the factors, employment levels, employment rates, youth unemployment, old-age unemployment and total unemployment were taken into account and compared with the other European countries, and we are in the overall ranking even before Luxembourg in the first place. So, the Austrian labour market and employment policy cannot really be that bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not in the room at the moment, Mr Kier, but I would like to take up his thoughts. He rightly pointed out that we should consider putting social security charges on a different basis and, for example, using the wage sum as a basis. We have made a first step in this direction in the context of the last amendments to our social security law, the major changes in the pension debate, and I thank the majority of the House for having taken up and decided on this proposal by the Federal Government. In the case of minor employees, the social security contribution is now calculated by the wage sum. We have thus gone from the traditional, traditional form of the basis for calculating social security contributions. So I think it is worth referring to this development and this new element in our social security system. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about the motion for a resolution that has just been tabled concerning the dogs of the blind. I will, of course, make a great effort to become an initiative within the meaning of this proposal. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Don't stand in there!]] However, I would also like to try to win you, to support me in putting pressure on the countries that are at least the same, if not even more, as the Federation. I should like to point out that we have always been able to make sure that decisions were taken by the Blind Dog Commission, according to which grants were granted in duly-respected cases, and an entry to the blind dog has been made in the passport. This has made it easier for those concerned. It is not yet known to me - I can only speak of what is known to me - in which we have not been able to give corresponding support to a needy blind person and have not been able to provide a blind dog. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you for referring to the opportunities and possibilities of creative working time models. I would also like to thank the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Chambers of Workers, because of this information also in broad form to the workers, to the works councils, but always to the address of entrepreneurship, that we could be more creative, more workers-oriented in the working time policy and should, than is the case at present. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Hoge Haus has created the legal possibilities for attractive, creative and employee-oriented working hours, and it is now close to using them as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3013	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3031	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It would also be worthwhile for me to give the report on the social situation the attention it truly deserves. However, the short period of time allows me to deal briefly with two chapters, namely the employment of people with disabilities and the situation of social health insurance. A look at this report shows us that the Austrian companies have fulfilled their obligation to employ disabled persons by 59 percent in the year under review. That's a value that's been about the same for years. In this context, allow me to say: A few days ago, I received a letter from the Vienna Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons, reporting the following: A low-Austrian installation company was given by the Lower Austrian Chamber of Commerce of the urgent Council - I quote literally - to abandon the recruitment of disabled people, since this only poses difficulties. - In so far as the letter of the Association of War Victims and Disabled Persons of Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. I am truly not a friend of strong words, but if one can call something scandalous, then one must call this behavior of the Lower Austrian Economic Chamber scandalous. I hope that this is just an individual case and that this is not the general line of the Lower Austria Chamber of Commerce or other Chambers of Commerce to strongly dissuade their member companies from the recruitment of people with disabilities. I should like to remind you that only a few weeks ago we discussed the National Action Plan on Employment here in the House, that an essential chapter in this Action Plan deals with the unemployment of disabled people, and that we agreed to make very special efforts in this area. This national action plan, ladies and gentlemen, must remain a tool, if at least some of the employers' organizations give such scandalous advice to the Chamber of Commerce of this country. The second area: Social health insurance is on the path of consolidation for the first time in 1996. Franz Hums rightly pointed out: At that time, there was a minus of 400 million schilling. In this context, I should like to point out that from 1 January, we will be able to In July, there was a social-politically remarkable innovation: The health insurance of farmers is docked to the local health insurance fund. This means, for farmers insured, the adoption of the principle of benefits in kind. This means that a group of people, which - see the poverty chapter in the social report - is truly not one of the materially favored in the country, at last like workers, like other groups in the country, has the opportunity to go to the doctor without having to lay the money in advance. This is a very large, socially important achievement, and we are all very, very happy about that. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] In this context, I am concerned that what we feel is presented by the Chamber of Directors as something worthy of criticism. I have a great understanding that standing representatives point to problems, and I also understand that this is a bit more drastic and more political in the run-up to chamber elections, but I would like to support from this point of view also the appeal of Franz Hums and ask that we should come back here soon and return to a constructive dialogue environment - with the Social Ministry, with the main association of social security providers, with the pharmacy chamber and with all those with whom the doctor's chamber has to deal daily. Patients will be grateful for this anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3081	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3099	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 social report in the field of disabled people shows exactly what we have always announced that will happen. The problem is that not only in 1996 the situation of disabled people was miserable, but it was also miserable in 1997 and is still miserable in 1998. Her social report clearly shows that the situation has not improved in the field of care provision, but rather, it has worsened seriously, because more and more people are in the care level 1 and receive only more than 2 000 S. Already in 1996 only more than 2 300 people were in step 7. Mrs. Minister! If it really is that there are only 2,300 people who are severely disabled and need a round-the-clock care, then we were fine and then we would not have as massive problems as we have when it comes to disabled people. And another one, Mrs. Minister: In your 1996 Social Report, you also have a chapter on the commitment of companies to employ disabled workers. So with this chapter, Mrs Minister, you really don't have the language. They say that we must do everything we can to meet the need to set up the disabled. Yes, Mrs Minister, have you forgotten that not even the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities have fulfilled their duty of recruitment, that the Ministry of Education alone has paid 83 million schilling in the last three years to buy free from people with disabilities? [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Please also speak from the Ministry of Social Affairs!]] Mrs. Minister! If you believe that with 2,000 s punishment a month you can move anyone to hire disabled people, then you live in the wrong reality. The fact that this is not the case is that, in recent years, the unemployment rate has not been reduced, but it is a massive increase every year and has already exceeded the 40 percent limit. 40 percent of the people affected are unemployed in Austria. Mrs. Minister! That must give you some thought, and there you are called upon to do something. But leaving the "free buy" premium in the amount of 2,000 s is certainly the wrong way, because this does not motivate anyone to hire a disabled person. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now you've come to think of something new, you call it "integrating companies". In reality, it is protected workshops in which people have to work around 200, 300 s. If that's integration, I don't know what you're talking about. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: That is not true, Mrs Colleague!]] If you mean GesmbHs, then write it to you, but in protected workshops, people work at a zero rate, without social security insurance and without a possibility to claim unemployment benefit or any other social benefits. [[Abg. Nicer: That's not true at all! Where are you from?]] The few people who can work in the framework of a GesmbH can really count very quickly, all the others work in the context of employment therapy and do not even get a wage in the month that reaches the level of low-qualityness. This is reality, and you are not willing to recognize this reality, but you have been running massive refusal of reality for years and still have the courage to continue to do so. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: You are!]] [[Abg. Ritsmer: You don't recognize reality!]] This is really a condition that is pretty slow to bear, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With the Social Fund, this is also one thing: They promote businesses through the Social Fund, which do not meet the conditions for doing so at all. Mrs. Minister! You know that the European Social Fund is exclusively intended to put in place inclusive measures for disabled people, and not to preserve and expand protected workshops with the income I mentioned earlier. This is a misuse of resources, and we will no longer be able to do so, Mrs Minister. I could still list page by page areas in which you have not only failed enormously in recent years, but still fail and are not prepared at all to change just about something. For example: They decided last year that minor employees also have to pay a social security contribution. [[Abg. Nicer: Thank God!]] That's good and important. That was also a requirement of the Greens. You have finally implemented this. But now the big but: Disabled people have to pay social security contributions, although there has been no adjustment of the care allowance for years. You have therefore de facto continued to reduce the care allowance. But you do not seem to care at all, for your view only focuses on expanding protected workshops and homes, and not on people’s being able to live in their own homes. But you do not care, but you want to maintain old-fashioned structures that have been obsolete for 50 years with all your strength and do not have the courage to go new ways in the field of disability policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Mrs. Minister! Now I come to the last point I would like to make. Last week in the Social Committee, we discussed the issue of dogs for the blind, dogs for assistance and dogs for accompanying dogs. You know that this issue has been on the table for years. But you haven't done anything in this causa for years, absolutely nothing. If I had not been so committed to solving these problems, then the debate would not have even been held so far. Last year - it was about June - the Committee on Petitions had an approach to blind-led dogs and then an opinion from the Committee's Members, which included the question, which you now intend to do, in order to change the situation that really is no longer sustainable in this area. Both Mrs Gatterer and the SPÖ representatives, looking at the camera with a grinning face, said: We will do everything, that cannot be the truth, as the situation is now, something has to change quickly! Do you know what changed, Mrs. Minister? - They have made a request which states that you will be treated in an equal manner so that blind people will have a right to their guide dog. We were promised. I would like to give you this blind dog. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr presents a plush dog with a blind loop on the peacock to Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch.]] But, Mrs. Minister - and now it will be interesting! - you have said before and you have boasted that in cases where there is a need, there are already grants when blind people need a blind dog. Mrs. Minister! The Green Group's motion for a resolution, which I shall now bring, is that it should not be an alms service for the blind if they are given a blind dog, but that they should have a clear right to it in the context of the provision of aid. We have tabled a request to this effect, in which the Federal Government will be asked until the 31st century. In December, discussions were held on the issue of the inclusion of blind dogs, assistance dogs and accompanying dogs in the aid catalogue and a clear quality assurance for the training and testing of the dogs. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: shall we put all of this into a law?]] This claim has now been raised more or less by SPÖ and ÖVP, but it is completely different. There is no longer any mention of the blind dog as an aid and of how the quality criteria for training and for testing the dogs of the blind are to be looked at, and, above all, it is not yet established until when a clear regulation is finally to be reached. Mrs. Minister! We demand that it be until the 31st century. In December 1998, a regulation came into force, and not, as Mr Guggenberger, Mrs Kallat and Mrs Reitsamer said, "e-major". [[Abg. Wormitzer: It's even faster!]] If "externally" for you means that you will tackle the problems of disabled people as closely as you have done in recent years, then I know that you think with "e-majority" that it should happen in the next ten, 15 years. That must not be possible! [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This has been so agreed with those concerned!]] That's not true, but you'd like to have that. Please do not use those affected for this farce, because the people concerned actually want something else. I only talked to those concerned about hours ago - unlike you. They were here today in the house and again formulated their demands very clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3274	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Excuse me, you have to read the text of the motion for a resolution; it is just a few lines. They have presented it and have also said that he is addressed to the Federal Government, although he is addressed to the Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs. I ask you to read these six lines.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3289	Mrs. Minister! As long as you have not done so and as long as there is no clear claim to a blind dog as an aid, we will make this claim by the Greens. Mrs. Minister! Because I have just come to my mind that you are not a needy case and therefore can't make any grants, I will take the dog away from you again, so that I can give it to you then, if you have finally made a law that meets the demands of blind people. [[Federal Minister Hostasch places the plush dog at the end of the government bank]] Then you will get this dog as a thank you for your performance again.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3352	Mrs Haidlmayr has now read a motion for a resolution which has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3374	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs Hostasch, and your officials for this informative report. For reasons of time, I will quickly mention only a few aspects. Life expectancy as a health indicator: 35-year-old men with compulsory education live on average five, women four years shorter than those with higher education. Even at 65 years, the difference is three years. Debt is worse access to health facilities and living conditions. The poorer dies earlier. A high level of training of all people is therefore a priority objective of a forward-looking policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The theme "social hammocks": The poverty rate in unemployed households is five times as high as in the total population, with long-term unemployed households above 40 percent. The unemployed are not only poor, they also suffer very much. 90 percent would probably exchange with us: their free time against our labour burden with corresponding social prestige and income. To force them to accept any work means wage dumping. We never agree with this modern slave! Despite the high degree of success of social benefits, our objective must be higher education, adequate work on appropriate conditions and improved living conditions for women. Social differences show the distribution of pensions: 71 percent of those involved, including the unemployed, receive 59 percent of the pension volume. 14 per cent of those involved, including officials, score 29 per cent. The maximum possible ASVG pension was 27 573 p.m. The average retirement of the officials was 32 100 S. The share of social security invalidity pensions was 15.5 billion schilling, that of officials, 13.5 billion schilling. Apart from higher performance, the percentage of disabled officials must be higher. It is not because of the danger of activity and the suffering of officials, but rather because of the easier recognition of pensions. This social hammock financed by taxes does not concern Parias but is privileged, so it does not stir up. While the ASVG survivors' pensions increased by 120 percent from 1980 to 1995, they increased by 159 for officials. Because of the higher income, the young second wife and later child seine would be the cause. Residence pensions should be limited in the event of major age differences. The wife, who is active in the household, promotes the career and comfort of the men. In the case of high per capita income, it should assure the loving spouse socially rather than free of contributions. Widow pensions by well-earned men are often higher than the pension entitlements drawn up by women. 5 million contributors face 2.7 million co-insurers. Final on health insurance: A 99 percent degree of insurance shows high efficiency. In 1978, health insurance accounted for a share of 31.5 percent of KRAZAF funds, and almost doubled to 59 percent in 1996. Health insurance expenditure is based on revenue. In the case of more services, revenue must also increase. The poverty risk limit is below the EU average. Particularly vulnerable are unemployed households, single parents, wage earners in low-paid industries. Our social benefits are above-average in terms of incomes and are very effective. We are proud of this system and we want to continue to improve our social system for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3436	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Voluntary time limit 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3454	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't see them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: She went out with the dog!]] I hope she'll come back. This social debate deals with a total of 15 agenda items. In addition to the extremely important report on the social situation, the remaining 14 points, all of which represent opposition parties' requests, should be discussed in detail from this speaker's point of view. I will deal only with five of these 15 agenda items for time-consuming reasons, namely those five points that will be approved by the liberals, because we have set up parliamentary activities ourselves in these areas. Firstly, on the agenda item 5, Amendment 501/A by the Greens: This is a clarification of the placement of jobs for persons with care responsibilities, namely a link between the opening hours of the care facilities. That was not enough for us. That is why we have tabled an additional proposal calling for this to be extended to private support. In this context, I recall a case I raised here two years ago. This was about a mother of three children who, as a learned office merchant, had lost the unemployment allowance because she could not accept a job as a kitchen aid from 18 to 23 hours. You, Mrs Bundesminister, consider this matter to be resolved because, according to many advances of the opposition, it is likely that the labour market service service providers will be issued. But this decree, Mrs Federal Minister, you know it, if he wants to achieve the same thing that is required in our requests, contrary to the legislative text and would not offer protection in the course of the process to higher bodies. You and your government, Mrs Federal Minister, are once again pressing for a clear legal regime. This is a fact, and this is at the expense of those concerned. Now on points 8 and 9 and item 11 on the agenda, which is about improving the situation of caregivers. I already know it's been since 1. In January 1998, a beneficiary pension insurance scheme is available, but it is limited to close relatives and affects only caregivers at the level of care 5, 6 and 7. The Greens call for the possibility of extending self-insurance to all areas. These have always been the intentions of the liberals. We have already raised these demands in 1992 when it comes to the decision-making of care provision and formulated them in amendments, and, I am sure, Federal Minister Hesoun has also promised their implementation. The same applies to the small number of employees who now have to be guaranteed compulsory insurance. However, the current regulation is not satisfactory. Mr Kier's Amendment No 635/A provides a way of achieving a better solution for the insurance obligation now given to caregivers. That is why we will also give our approval to this point. Now quickly to my request 133/A concerning gender-neutral regulation of night work. Since 1992 we have been calling for this in this House. This is the third request, and it has already been postponed twice as you can see it on the date of 1996. We are not going to let this happen again, and we will bring this request back, because what you have done in the government is just an emergency solution. There are only minimal easings in the area of collective agreements to be drawn up. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have remained guilty to me in the Committee for the answer to my question as to what these reliefs in collective agreements for metal and mining will look like. They know that in other areas there are serious difficulties in the works councils, that they are opposed to them and that this continues to cost women their jobs often. Of course, I can't keep up with this as a woman's spokesman for the liberals. Mrs. Federal Minister! In conclusion: All these points are a red thread, and it seems that this Federal Government is still of the opinion that a social partnership balance of interests - in the backlog - is achieving with the increasingly less and less satisfactory compromises as you stand, the Ultima ratio. They are faced with clear decisions - at the expense of those concerned. They really offer a devastating impression in these sub-areas.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3489	Mrs Silhavy is speaking. Voluntary time limit 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3507	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Now, Mrs Haller, I understand why you have spoken about a "eloquent" social policy recently. But I assume that you meant an efficient one. But obviously this expression is strange to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are neither efficient nor evoquent!]] Mr Oellinger has today addressed and criticized the number of full-time workers who earn less than 12,000 S of income. Mr Kier presented the issue of poverty - although very simplified - I would like to say, anyway. Of course, you have to listen, Mrs Colleague, and you will already hear it - which can be achieved from the work of self-employed people, an essential point on the extent to which poverty can be combated in a state or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath]] However, the social report also makes it clear that women's wage discrimination - Mrs Motter has already mentioned this today with facts from the speaker's desk - is a problem which is present throughout Europe and which has not yet been able to get hold of a state, as I have recently been able to convince myself at an ETUC Women's Conference. In any case, it is clear that this is a matter of particular concern to the economy. I am thinking, for example, of the collective agreement which the doctors offer to the ordination aid or to the dentists. It really cannot be said that this is in a relationship to their own income. It is clear that all of this will be particularly true of the new regulation of night work, which has already been mentioned. Many businesses that have so far called for women's night work to be possible, women's night work is existent for the Austrian economy, now that they can no longer expect and achieve such a great advantage from this wage discrimination, no longer show any interest in this women's night work. The use of part-time working time flexibility - at the expense of workers - also increases these incomes. For example, 398 000 women are part-time jobs, whereas only 86 000 are men. It must be an objective of all social strata in Austria in order to maintain prosperity in our state. It must therefore also be in the interests of the economy. This also includes offering jobs instead of working places. Instead of an army of working some, as other countries show us, the reduction of regular overtime and the reduction of working hours must finally be a subject where the economy also meets us seriously and shows willingness to talk. The social "manufactured" is probably only from the point of view of the top floor of the home of some entrepreneurs, perhaps from their garden terrace, visible, to the employees in Austria, on the other hand, the economy is setting up such a narrow corset that they are hardly able to breathe air. At the legal level, much has happened to help the workers, to help the working people in Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, you yourself have referred to the example of labour flexibility. In implementing these legislative measures, however, the economy in Austria is now required.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3554	I now have a speech by Mr Wabl. As Mr Wabl is not in the Chamber, this speech cannot be taken into account. The next item is Mrs Sophie Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in my statement on the request of Mr Haller and Mr Comrades concerning a gender-neutral arrangement of night work: In 1879, a draft law was discussed in Austria, which for the first time provided for protection provisions for women aged 16 to 21, namely a ban on night work and a restriction on daily working time. In 1919, i.e. 79 years ago, a law on the ban on night work for women was passed in Austria on the pressure of the workers' movement. At the time, however, there were also numerous derogations for women workers, for example in the transport sector, in the broadcasting sector, in news agencies and in hospitals, where night work cannot be avoided for humanitarian reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! Night work is a form of working time, which, even with optimal organization and social design, is contrary to the natural rhythm of life. Regular night work endangers health and shortens the life expectancy of every person. - Maybe that's the goal of the applicants. Ladies and gentlemen! In our company, men do night work, and they complain about sleep disorders, family conflicts, and other problems. If night work already needs to be done, appropriate conditions must be created for the protection of health for night workers, such as, to name only a few, regular medical checks on the state of health, driving to and from the workplace, childcare facilities also during the night. After all, Mrs Haller, there are 115 000 single parents in Austria with children under 15 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen! Night work makes sick, disrupts cohabitation in family and society and is also against the inner clock. Night work brings more money, but the wallet is getting used to quickly, the mind only partially, but the body is never accustomed to night work, Mrs Haller. [[Abg. Haller: Who makes the laws? These are arguments for the waxes!]] We, as legislators, have the obligation to create a framework that is reasonable for all workers and their families. That is why we Socialists will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3610	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3628	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we discuss the 1996 report on the social situation, I think there is no one in this House who does not say that this important reference work is well prepared and in two volumes reports on the activities of individual departments, on pensions and on incomes quite detailed and contains data on the labour market situation. On the labour market, I would like to point out the following: The number of unemployed has fallen by 21,000 in the period 1995 to 1996, with about 2.7 million foreigners and around 300 000 foreigners employed. The trend is that there are less self-employed people in Austria, but it is also continuing in the year after, in 1997, and also this year. The number of job openings is also reduced. There are 5 600 job vacancies in the reporting period between 1995 and 1996. That should make us think about how we can stop this trend. But there are also special forms of working time that bring time. It is true today that there is no longer only one single earner in the family, but the trend is in the direction of both partners pursuing employment. As this report shows, however, we have more and more minor employees, mainly women who earn less than 3,600 s. Two thirds of women in working life are slightly employed and half of them are female workers. The number of part-time workers has also increased considerably, particularly in women. 27 per cent of women are part-time; in trade, it is 33 per cent compared to 4 per cent men. We have recently received the national employment plan. It should be noted that the Federal Government intends to create 100 000 new jobs over the next five years by 2002 through the national employment plan and to reduce the unemployment rate, which currently stands at 7 per cent - in accordance with EU criteria of 4.4 per cent - to 3.5 per cent. For me, this is a little unlikely, because if we consider that in the next few years - and this is also the national employment plan - the construction sector will be reduced by 15 000 jobs, by 23 000 less in the textile sector and by 5 000 less in the food sector, then 58 000 jobs will be less. There are already over 150,000 new jobs to be created to reach the same level that we have today, otherwise unemployment will increase, and the 3.5 percent quota will probably not be reached. On the other hand, more jobs are created in services, in the social, health and environmental sectors and in health professions. There are still 30 000 jobs missing, Mrs Federal Minister - I have already told you - which is now to be compensated for by active labour market policy, by re-training and so on. But as you yourself know, it is a problem to re-train a 50-year-old if businesses are no longer interested in recruiting over 50 years. Jobs are also to be created by improving the economy. Economic growth of 2.5 per cent is expected to increase and thus increase employment. But how should the economy grow if there are much less open jobs if a wave of founders is often announced but not implemented? In the first quarter of this year - this applies to the present, but also if we look into the future - the number of companies has decreased by 12 percent, 1 333 companies have been deleted from the company's book. This is simply not particularly pleasing for the Austrian situation. We have a high tax and tax rate, we are 44.8 percent today. It's just too high! The real income is also falling, the purchasing power in Austria is getting weaker. We also have the phenomenon that taxes and social taxes from wage income have increased much more over the last 15 years than those in the field of property and enterprise, and the share of wage income in net people's income has fallen enormously. In 1976 it was still 57.4 percent, so it fell to 47.8 percent in 1996. The net real income of workers fell by 2.2 percent over this period. We also have a cold progression in Austria, as the development of wage tax shows. In 1989, when the last major wage tax reform was under attack, we were 88 billion Schilling's wage tax income per year, it was 160 billion Schilling in 1996, 183 billion Schilling in 1997. Today we will probably reach the brand of 200 billion schilling. Therefore, Mrs Bundesminister, it will simply be necessary to prefer a wage tax reform and not wait until the year 2000 and then make a wage tax reform in some form, because the Austrians will be bleeding up until then. I would just like to point out that we have had two savings packages to carry out, the rates of transport companies have gone up, postal charges have been increased, telephone charges have been increased, municipal charges have been increased. All this hits people in their incomes. The fuel price is enormously high, the health certificate fee has been introduced, the special expenditure is no longer depreciable to the same extent as it used to be. The monthly median income of all employed persons in Austria is now 20 400 S on average. A worker deserves, as this report can be seen, an average of 18 400 S, an employee 22 500 S, an official 24 700 S, and only 11 percent of the unemployed in Austria earn above the maximum basis of assessment. It is essential to prefer a wage tax reform. In principle, it is no longer a tax reduction, but simply a reparation of the losses of the Austrians. And considering that 5 percent already live on the poverty line in Austria, fire is already on the roof. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to say to the Minister for Finance that this is preferable.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3691	Mr Blünegger is now speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3709	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, the 1996 report on the social situation has also produced a satisfactory result. I have looked at the statistics on the decline in accidents at work compared with 1995, and I must say that is certainly pleasing. I think that other points - and I should like to draw only two of them - have been remarkably negative. The first point: the development of the Austrian social security scheme. Pensions increased more than employment, with more than 32 800 people paying pensions. There are now about 1.8 million pensioners. By comparison, 1 000 insured 601 pensioners arrived in 1995, and 1 000 insured 616 pensioners in 1996. My criticism is that this Federal Government has failed to control the number of early pensioners, or perhaps it even wants to distort the unemployment statistics. An impeccable failure by the Federal Government on this point! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My second criticism of this report refers to page 14 and pages 177 and 205 of the report on poverty. To this end, I must say: What bothers me very much is that according to official data 5 per cent of the population are poor and 14 per cent are at risk of poverty, but if you look at the unofficial situation in Austria, this proportion is estimated at at least 25 per cent. And that is, I think, a danger that we have to avert. The measures taken in this fight against poverty are worth only 18 lines in this report, and I believe that these 18 lines are really not enough. Poverty reduction certainly needs billions, but you, Mrs. Federal Minister - or your government - want to put the billions into the future Easter enlargement, which may come in 2005. This is certainly not the right way! Now I would like to take a brief look at my request, which is also on the agenda today, namely the request concerning the acquisition of costs for screen glasses. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In the interests of workers working on screen equipment, I have tabled this request with the Liberal Group, for according to § 68 para. 4 of the Workers' Protection Act shall not lead to any financial burden on visual assistance in the form of screen glasses. Employers and social insurance represented a contradictory legal system. The application calls for the removal of this legal uncertainty, for who is to bear the cost of the screen glasses is still not clearly apparent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this regulation is not sufficient to clarify the cost issue clearly. The experts agree on this. Her regulation is not "watertight", Mrs. Federal Minister. The ambiguities lie in the wording of this text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Voices My request to - and not the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3761	Mr Meisinger has now spoken. Voluntary time limit likewise 4 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3780	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The 1996 report on the social situation already states that equivalent labour and social standards should be achieved for all employed persons. Those who deal with this subject know that this has been called for for years, but the Chamber of Labour, just as the ÖGB can't begin internally on this subject and know how to prevent this equality. If it goes on to say in the introduction that the social state is based on the recognition that social solidarity ensures inner peace, I would like to say: Social solidarity has recently said that the Chancellor deserves more than 1 million Schilling a year, that families with the first 100 s savings package have been removed from children's allowance, that in the care sector, the level 1 has been reduced, that increases have not been made and that pocket money has been reduced by 50 percent in the weakest groups in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also says that it would be necessary to ensure reliable economic conditions. - Political frameworks such as retroactive tax legislation, excessive electricity prices and telephone costs, high gross and low net incomes - these are the "reliable economic conditions" we find in Austria! It goes on to say: Political stability and the future of democracy must be guaranteed. - Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have looked at the proposals of the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce Act will have found that this is a step back to the last century. There's really no way to talk about democracy. So if it is said that the social state is based on these findings, then I must say that it is really bad about the social state in Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, you would be required to introduce substantial improvements for the population. To the unemployed: Of the total number of persons affected by unemployment in 1996, 180 000 were unemployed for more than six months, 40 percent of them for more than one year. After all, this is an increase of 2 percent. It is always said that in Austria the unemployment rate is so low that it is hardly worth mentioning. In the Federal States, Carinthia, Burgenland and Vienna, unemployment rates have increased on average on an annual basis. It is noteworthy that SPÖ heads of state have been operating there for decades and that the highest national salaries are to be found in these federal states. This shows how seriously the Federal Government is taking equality with workers, employees and officials. It is also repeatedly said that higher education ensures jobs. This report states that, for example, in 1996, for academics, unemployment rose by 10 per cent, while in the field of low education it represents only 1.7 per cent. [[Abg. Koppler: The Stadler doesn't listen to you!]] Koppler, speak up, and then we'll talk to you. But you can't talk about it, because that's not a candy theme - that's why you don't know each other. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How "successful" this government is in unemployment policy shows the great coalition that took place at the time to solve major problems. For example, unemployment has increased from 2.2 billion to 13.7 billion - from 1980 to 1995 - that is 515 percent! - the emergency aid increased by even 1 300 percent, the pension for long-term unemployment by 550 percent, the special support by 600 percent and the insolvency fund by 1 014 percent, from 360 million to 4 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! This shows that this Federal Government has no economic competence either! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the development of the insolvency fund, I would like to say that in 1996 there was a 14 per cent increase. "Consum", Maculan, Optyl, Carrera and Emco - all the companies very close to the Socialists - went into bankruptcy and cost the Austrians a lot of money. Finally, I would like to comment on the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. In the private sector, each must be 25 years old. A person with disabilities must be a disabled person and a compensation tax of 1,960 s must be paid for each disabled person. In the public sector, this figure has been reduced from 40 to 30 years ago. So if the social report of the public sector is presented as an exemplary area in this regard, this is simply not true, because the quota is much lower than in the private sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Create They are the same quotas, then we can also talk about equal treatment for the economy!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e3838	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. I would ask you to take the places, because we now have some votes on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-111/1129 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1132 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - This report is largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1133 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1134 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - This report is also largely taken note of. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1135 of the supplements. Whoever is for this purpose may give a corresponding sign. - This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1136 of the supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign. - This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1137 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - Mrs. Haidlmayr, you're for that? [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Yes, of course!]] Excuse me, I can't see your handsign. - The notice shall be taken unanimously. This report was adopted unanimously. I accept Amendment No 603/A (E) to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1138 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1139 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1140 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1141 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The majority of the adoption is made. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1142 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. - This report will be adopted by a majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1143 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. Now we are voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1260 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - It's mostly accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1264 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. - This report has been adopted by a majority. [[Unrest.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps at least during the vote you could stop the talks. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1264. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Guggenberger, Maria Rauch-Kallat and comrades submitted an amendment request. Since there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in the version of the proposed amendment. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. - That's the majority. The decision-making took place by a majority. (E 125.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Motter and Mr Comrades on the legal recognition of the blind dog as an aid and a service dog. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on legal recognition of the dogs of the blind as an aid. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. - That's the minority. This request is rejected. 16. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1153): Federal Act establishing a federal law on a support programme for ensuring sufficient vocational training (Youth Training Security Act) (1261 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act (Novelle Vocational Training Act) (1262 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4000	We now come to points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Dolinschek has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4027	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Youth Training Security Act, which is now before us, was certainly urgently necessary. The dual vocational training system, which is the core of vocational training in Austria at all, has recently led to a major imbalance between supply and demand from apprenticeships. With regard to labour market support measures for disadvantaged young people in the labour market and young people who have not previously been taught, it was not exactly what the Austrian Federal Government has so far mentioned. It has been tried to establish vocational schools as a substitute for missing apprenticeships. We started a campaign years ago: "Career with teaching." - It didn't fruit, this campaign didn't actually do anything. An apprentice hotline has been set up, which has led to a wild growth in promotions, because the winners of these promotions were those companies which did not previously recruit or wait until a promotion was issued, and the apprentices then recruited in November and December. Those companies that have always trained apprentices have had nothing of it. This led to the following in Carinthia: I am myself employed in a farm where more than 100 apprentices are trained at four different locations. There are about 35 apprentices recorded each year, and suddenly it looked like there was a trend change: Only half as many young people have applied for an apprenticeship this year as the years before. The public debate seems to have caused young people, or those entitled to education, who no longer had the parents of these young people to try to apply for an apprenticeship because they thought: If he continues his vocational education, he may even receive a better education than he does on a apprenticeship. So they didn't make any effort to do this. I have already been concerned that this trend, if nothing is brought together in terms of vocational training, will be considerably strengthened, because the economy will only be able to provide more training if they are properly promoted. The original text of the government template, as it is available to us, has basically not stated more than that there will be a promotion of 500 million schilling. There was no review. The reasons why the apprenticeship offer is so low have also remained unmentioned. I thought: What's going to be out of it? You can only reject that. But see, at the last moment in the Committee, an overall change was made, which would certainly have been possible in the past, but this was really more complex. My colleagues in the Social Committee and I have also agreed to this because for the years 1998 and 1999 a total of 1.8 million schilling for training... billions, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: billions!]] [[Abg. Tichy Schreiter: billions! You said "millions!"]] It's exactly 800 million for courses and 1 billion for apprentices' foundations. What irritates me is that when young people attend a course, they receive only 2,000 s per month, and those who have a negative degree and go to the apprenticeships, receive 2 985 s and are promoted much higher. I do not really agree with that, but I would rather, Mrs Social Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that young people are employed in training than being on the streets. That is also the reason why we give our support to this government template. The fact that in vocational schools, which are becoming less frequent, the appropriate rooms are provided, I also find very positive. I've already said it: We will vote in favour of this government template because, from our point of view, it is better for young people not to be on the streets to receive training. But we're going to see if there's any maladministration. It is also positive to note that no matter how many apprentices he has previously employed or trained, every company that takes up apprentices has in principle a write-off or withdrawal possibility for apprentices of 20,000 s per job. I think that's positive.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4075	Mr Nürnberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4094	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by saying that in the past the Federal Government has tried and will in the future continue to try to give young people in our country an apprenticeship to provide a training place. I do not normally agree with the statements made by my previous speaker, Mr Dolinschek, but I fully agree on one point in his speech, yes, I believe that all the Members in this House agree on this: It is, I think, even better for young people, if they do not have a normal teaching relationship, to get training in any way - whether they are working foundations or courses - than to stand on the street. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also a matter of great recognition for every private action, for example the one initiated by Ö3, because it also brings many teaching places. I allow myself to make another fundamental statement before going into some details of the present draft legislation: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, the core of our vocational training must remain the dual training system - on the one hand, on the other, vocational school - even though we now decide on other forms of training for the next few years. The present Youth Training Security Act has some priorities. I'm gonna grab a few. First: Ten-month courses on the acquisition of skills and skills for an apprenticeship will be introduced. Of course, these courses are subject to compulsory vocational training and an aid is also made available to apprentices. I only hope - and I appeal to the economy today - that the graduates of these courses can then be integrated into firms in the context of normal teaching conditions. Another focus is the apprenticeship foundations. The example of this is the very well-functioning work foundations that we have set up in some crisis regions and crisis sectors when closing larger businesses; they have done very good work and worked very well. This institution is also to be welcomed. There will also be aid for young people in the foundations and mediation will be provided by the labour market service. The organisation of the courses and apprenticeship foundations is to be carried out by national project groups. We know that there have been delays in the previous year and there, that there has been no agreement at national level and that there have been discussions. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs has made the point that, if there are delays in the field of the individual Länder, the three competent ministers will make a decision quickly and unbureaucratically. Appreciate Mrs Sozialminister! I am convinced that you will do everything you can to make a quick decision with your colleagues. A further Committee statement is welcome because, although it is stated in the present draft law that the necessary schools should be made available free of charge, there is something else in the School Organisation Act. - I assume that one does not try to create capital and rent out of the apprenticeship situation, but rather that the spatial capacity for training is actually made available free of charge. I would like to make a few comments on the current legislation on vocational training. For the first time, a so-called teaching is introduced for young people who are disadvantaged or who have personal barriers to mediation. As you know, there were very intense discussions in this context. I can now say, however, that workers' representatives in particular have leaped over their shadows with the agreement of teaching. I therefore appeal to the representatives of the employers on the occasion of the decision: Abuse If you do not like this instrument, do not confirm to us the reservations there and there that you might come to cheap labour in this way, but we will make the instrument of teaching what both sides are planning! Let us give that group a chance to integrate itself into professional life. I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for your commitment to our young people, whom you have already shown and will show in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4156	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4174	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger! If, in the light of the present Youth Education and Training Act, you believe that dual training, vocational school and business will continue to be the core of training, then I believe that you are wrong. [[Abg. Nuremberg: Certainly not!]] I'm going to comment on this. I am really surprised by the fact that the Members of this House have been reported by the Liberals in this debate, that they will, surprisingly, be voting in favour of it and that they have apparently forgotten the proposals for reforms in the field of dual training which they have already made in the run-up to this point and also in the sub-committee. But now to the Youth Training Security Act in particular. I really think it's a pure provisorium, I almost want to say, for a bureaucratic tortoise. We are now investing again more than 2 billion schillings in order to accommodate apprentices, and once again we are not discussing quality, but we are pushing the problems to the long bank. This will definitely have an impact on young people. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Nürnberger! To come back to it again: Instead of introducing structural forms in the field of dual training, which makes this good form of training more attractive for companies and apprentices, you now praise this proposal and take a very conscious risk of becoming a permanent institution. Mr Nürnberger, this must be a permanent establishment. The University of Linz is already clearly warning about this, and there scientists who are close to your group have been dealing with this problem. I understand what you intend to do with this, because only in this way can the back door introduce what your side firmly refuses, namely a sustainable cost relief for businesses. The companies will now withdraw in the short term, the young people will attend these courses and will be trained for full free for the entrepreneur for a year - perhaps a second year too - and then the teacher will be able to take over a trained apprentice relatively cost-effectively for a more short rest period. And that's my concern: The training period for entrepreneurs will be reduced, and companies that have to act economically are likely to benefit to a large extent. I think that this housing action, which costs billions, is an attempt - and still a very inadequate attempt - to get past the structural reforms that you have been calling for for for for a very long time. I think that's a bit curious. We have many, many requests in the committees of the ministries concerned. But despite these requests, in a real night and fog action - although I understand that we young people have to work - this law is now being passed and something is being introduced on the back door, for which the courage and will for reform are unfortunately lacking. I say again: This Youth Training Security Act has many shortcomings for me, not just quality failures. Mr Nürnberger! You have gladly referred to the three Committees. - I mean, If we need three committee statements for a law, this is a sign to me that despite the seemingly intense negotiations, it has been worked sloppy. I believe that this would call into question clarity and legal certainty. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Organisation on the one hand You are also concerned that the system could be too bureaucratic, so that you can draw up a committee statement that, in the absence of a decision, the competent Federal Ministers will quickly and unbureaucratically bring about a decision to that effect. Mrs Minister, I'm just saying the order in the middle of it: You too are meant to be! Another Committee statement made clear that only WIFI and BFI can be used as promoters of these courses and foundations, once again. Mr Peter will still address many inconsistencies in this law and open questions in this context. I too am in favour of the schools providing rooms free of charge. But let us think of national schools, let us think of operating costs, and let us remember that we have partial and financial autonomy, which requires schools to rely on these resources, as the budget basically pre-programmed. This has been introduced before, and now these compulsory schools may have to do away with it. On one point, I can only give Mr Dolinschek the right to say: The difference between compensation for young people is already curious enough, but it is not clear that there is any financial compensation at all in this case. Explain to me why a first-class trade student does not receive compensation! In the course of apprenticeship training, it will be counted as a whole for a year of commercial school if it passes. - You can't explain that, and I mean you shouldn't introduce it like that. I see that my speaking time is, unfortunately, already over. Finally, I say: I think this result is embarrassing. I cannot understand that the SPÖ is as blind to the teaching as it is contained in the Vocational Training Act: For a year within two years, educational content will be provided, and the apprentice will be counted as a quarter of that time if he passes over. For me alone, permeability is a fiction. I would have wished to build up at least two years for this teaching, because within two years it is supposed to be one year. But the educational content of the first year of vocational schools - I have been teaching long enough in these - really does not go beyond the level of auxiliary workers, and I am sorry for these young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4221	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4239	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I thought: What will I say on this issue today? We talk about the apprentices very often, and in truth... [[Abg. May. Peter: What are you doing in your Subcommittee?]] Mr Peter, please let me speak. You have an opportunity to talk afterwards. We know the problem: We do not really get along with various negotiations. I am grateful to you, Mr Nürnberger, for saying at the beginning of your remarks that you are committed to the dual training system. I know that You are personally confessing this, and I know that President Vergestnich is also advocating this. In part, however, you do not acknowledge this system within your group. There is a division in your group on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] They know how important it is for young people to have this training system. And I am grateful for the fact that Mr Eder in our Subcommittee has drawn attention to the fact that we often forget that the young people who come to the enterprises are in different stages of development. There are Members in your group, Mr Nürnberger, who openly admit that it would be much better for them to train the entire system of apprenticeship training. This makes me personally affected, because it seems that the young people are not at all thinking about and actually do not know them. There are, of course, young people who do not want to go to school under any circumstances. There are apprentices who do not want to go to the vocational school. Thank God the teachers in the vocational school today are so far as to inform the teacher or the teacher, i.e. the instructor, if the young people do not come. What do we want? We want the young people to have different opportunities for training and to respond to the skills of young people. Dr. Antoni! There are different abilities. Many young people have more practical facilities, and these skills are to be used. This can only be learned in one farm - in addition, of course, in the vocational school. - That's one. A second aspect is also extremely important to me, because in this context it is about social understanding. In large businesses, apprentices are selected, but many of the young people stay on the street, so to speak. These young people are then taken up by small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I am fighting to make reliefs there. Because many small and medium-sized enterprises - not all, there are such and such everywhere - are trying to integrate the young people and try to integrate them. Sometimes there are difficulties, and then we have difficulties with each other when it comes to the dissolution of a teaching contract. That is why we have taken a first step with the introduction of an arbitration body. What am I talking about? - I don't want young people to be stolen for years. If it turns out in a farm that a teacher or a teacher is not suitable for a profession, then they should have the opportunity to change and learn something else elsewhere. If people do not harmonize with each other and there are difficulties, then young people do nothing good if they are not given the opportunity to solve the teaching relationship in order to try it in another company. In this connection, we are talking about human problems, and I am glad that we are finally creating an arbitration agency. We now have the opportunity to act in the sense of the humanity of the social partners. Mrs Schaffenrath! The creation of the teaching can also be understood in such a way that one tries to take into account that people have different talents and go through different maturing processes. I say quite frankly that I am not quite happy that this model is limited by the year 2000 because there will be too little to see. But it will be possible to evaluate. Young people should not simply be pushed into auxiliary employment positions at the age of 15, but have the opportunity to conclude. Similarly, mentally handicapped people should not be moved into training facilities where parents must be concerned that their children live only in artificial fields, but that they should be integrated into normal life. - That's what we need to learn. For me, the measures of the Youth Training Security Act and, above all, those of the Vocational Training Act are a first step in the right direction. But it's just a small step, and we still have a lot of steps ahead of us. I appeal to the Socialist Group to put together people who are not thinking of their ideology but of youth. I call on the Federal Minister to make the regulation on the appropriateness of work for young people in their field in such a way that young people can really be trained and not to be banned from doing things in their free time, but not in the workplace, or in the vocational school, but in the company where someone is directly behind them and is leading them. I think we have great steps ahead so that we can really build and develop a system that is exemplary in Europe. We'd have a chance to do that. That is why I ask you to allow us to speak seriously and wisely about it so that we can achieve good solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4280	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4298	Mr President. I would also like to make a comment to you: I did not want to talk about this in the context of a debate on the Rules of Procedure, but I think it is really inappropriate for the liberals to state clearly, for the time being, that, although they have reported themselves counter, they will approve both of them. That is what their voting behaviour was already in the committee, but there were counter-notices today. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I think we must finally talk about whether you take your own voting behaviour seriously, because otherwise we get to the point that you no longer take yourself seriously. [[Abg. Gaugg: Get down!]] In my opinion, this behaviour is impossible. That's not... [[Abg. Gaugg: We don't need a senior teacher!]] This has nothing to do with senior teachers, Mr Gaugg! I would just like to know whether a liberal Yes is actually a Yes or can mean both yes and no. This question is not irrelevant for cooperation here in the house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I'm on the subject. The main thing is, young people are not on the street! - That was the report made by Mr Nürnberger on this subject by the Social Democrats, and that is also the best thing to say. It is actually a sign of poverty for policy in this area, if one has to explain: We do not know what to do with the young people, but at least we "room" them away from the street, somewhere in a carpentry, and there they are supposed to work quietly. We know this kind of politics! This is not enough, because young people who may not have all the opportunities have the right to opportunity. This kind of training, however, does not give them any chance! For a teaching course which can lead to a training relationship takes four and a half years in the worst case for the apprentice and means that after the first two years in the first year of teaching, he increases again with the salary of the first year of teaching. If you call this qualification, which the young person takes almost five years, a chance, then it is really an advantage! Secondly, Of course, it is good for young people to be accommodated and taught in training courses or in foundations. It's better than not taking any precautions for them. But you must explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, why young people in training courses have to meet certain conditions, unlike young people in the foundations: For the course, the positive completion of the eighth or ninth level is a prerequisite, while for the foundation, the completion of compulsory education in 1998 and 1999 is a prerequisite. That means: They do not want to accommodate the young people who are already on the streets, especially those young people who have now completed the eighth or ninth school level without a positive success or perhaps have been waiting for one or two years. You don't even care about them! These young people cannot be accommodated in a training course or in a foundation. - Did you think of that when you had these "wonderful" novels roomed together and built these strange differences between training courses and foundations? Has Sometime during the emergence of this "Wonderful" Youth Security Act, you did this togetherness of the ministries you are now talking about and which is to form the basis of this law? Did you really do that seriously? You can't seriously mean that! Ladies and gentlemen! Next point: the procedure. We have already discussed this in the Committee, and Mr Schaffenrath has already pointed out very clearly: The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is responsible for this, does not decide alone, but in cooperation with two other ministries. But since, as we know from practice, three Ministries are usually difficult to make decisions, decision-making goes to the nearest lower level, the country's project groups. However, since the national project groups also have difficulties in decision-making, they are allowed to provide advice on their decisions on certain advisory institutions, which are usually - as I now believe blue-eyed - social partnership, which will help them to reach decision-making. If these national project groups do not come to a decision, the whole thing goes back to the three ministries. If they come to a decision which is of particular relevance, the Ministry of Finance shall also interfere and decide. That is the way these 4,000 young people are to be trained! Ladies and gentlemen! There must be limits somewhere. This is a pattern of bureaucratic growth that you have inundated young people in your own inability to decide as a federal government, obviously because you no longer know how to help yourself. That's the best thing you can say about it. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to make one more comment, although this is not directly on the debate, but it plays a major role in relation to the measures taken in the NAP: It is often referred to the great opportunities for young people who are now open to them because of the new careers you have worked out. And in all promises in this context, the word "area professions" always occurs again and again. - Do you really think that, for example, the profession of the system gastronomy and the system gastronomy, the solar plant installer and the solar plant engineer or the garden center merchant is a field profession, i.e. a profession with which he or the young people actually have opportunities to switch to other fields of work? Or do you rather mean that it is a very flat youth and professional policy that you have developed in this law and also in the NAP in recent months? Ladies and gentlemen! I am very much in favour of you taking action, including along with the opposition. However, I have a great deal against the fact that you make it so easy and believe that you will find adequate solutions by bringing in any bureaucratic decision-making bodies and by using these decision-making bodies to accommodate 4,000 young people from a total of 10,000 young people who are likely to be looking for a apprenticeship this year. And you do not even know what to do with the young people after this year, and you are already talking about the possibility of extending it by one year. You already know that the young people who have not had a chance now will probably have no chance in the future and, above all, cannot have a chance of doing so! Faith You really are the measures to ensure young people a right to life, education and training in professions that they at least want to be close to?
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4371	Mrs. Hostasch has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4390	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, at a slightly advanced hour, to make some comments on some kind of debate. I have the impression that not all here in the House are as important and important as the majority of this House and, in any case, the Federal Government. The Federal Government and, as I believe, the majority of this House cannot say no to everything. We must not only say what is not going on, but we must also have the courage to make some new decision, to go a new way, to make new attempts and to learn from these attempts. That is why I recognise that in order to achieve the goal of opening up the best possible opportunities for the future for young people, we are also trying new ways, in a responsible form. I mean, in this sense, we have also acted in this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have been concerned that it is possible to consult and decide on this Youth Training Security Act in the House today. We have managed in record time to take this first major and important legal step after the adoption of the National Employment Action Plan. This provides a healthy legal and financial basis for what we call the reception network for school leavers in 1998 and 1999. That is why I would like to extend my warmest thanks to the Members of Parliament, but also to the social partners and the regions concerned. As has already been pointed out several times, several departments have worked together to create the appropriate conditions. Mrs Schaffenrath! I would like to tell her, even if she is not in the room at the moment, that I share the opinion of Mr Nürnberger that the dual vocational training system was and will be at the heart of the vocational training system not only in the past and today, but also in the future. This type of training is crucial for Austria to maintain international competitiveness in particular. It is no coincidence that our dual vocational training system is one of the best practice methods in the European Union's assessment of the methods. It is also with one reason that Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. - Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think that we should make a clear commitment to something that has proved to be true and not to be ill, but to develop it further in order to maintain the quality that this system has. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also have to say that it is a difference, in my opinion, whether a youth, a youth is in a model of a dual vocational training course or whether he or she is attending a school - such as a commercial school. I recognize that there are different financial considerations in this respect and, accordingly, the regulation is to be implemented as provided for in the Youth Training Security Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The question of teaching has been raised. There have been long discussions on this subject. We will certainly have to gain our experience with the teaching. This model is now deliberately introduced as a complementary model in a temporary trial run. There are also deadlines for other models of reception here for decision-making. I am thinking, in particular, of the fact that, with vehemence, we want to recognize ourselves as a core element of the dual system and to gain experience from alternative models in order to conclude how much this is to be integrated into the overall system of dual vocational training. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Committee and, of course, the public have also discussed the issue of financing. I should like to tell you - and I would like to say this very clearly - that this model, which serves to present a catch-up network for some 4,000 school leavers in 1998 and some 4,000 of 1999 by foundations, courses, teaching and others, is absolutely financially and budgetaryly guaranteed. It is ensured that 500 million Schilling for foundations and 100 million for courses are planned in the 1998 budget approach. Therefore, only 100 million schillings are planned for courses, because their beginning can only take place in autumn, so that funds could not be used to a higher degree. In addition, these amounts are eligible for a presentation to the next year. For the 1999 budget year, another 500 million Schilling is planned for foundations and 400 million Schilling for courses. A lecture of 300 million schilling on the 2000 budget is equally fixed, but, of course, the 2000 budget cannot yet be decided. But it would not be the first time that a budget that lies in the future had already been defined at an earlier date. Dear ladies and gentlemen! That is why 1.8 billion schilling is available for this catch-up network. There is also the certainty that - should the economy not be able to meet the expectations - with the incentives given - 20 000 S tax-free amount per apprentice for the first year of training, the loss of the accident insurance contribution and the scheme relating to the health insurance contribution, the expectations and hopes that all of us have, namely that young people in the traditional dual vocational training system will see their career opportunities and find their training opportunities, and that they will be able to take out a hundred percent of this catch-up network. This concept provides that, from mid-November onwards, the relevant networks will be busy in order to provide the young people with exactly the opportunity to give the young people for the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, these arrangements are to be accompanied by new teaching professions, from professions with perspectives with which we want to open up new opportunities through new careers. These will be developed as a priority by the economic sector, but also, of course, by my department. I hope that we will succeed - if we all commit ourselves to exerting pressure on the Austrian economy as well - that our youth will not experience unemployment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4458	Mr Antoni has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4476	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In my opinion, the legislative matter to be decided today of the Youth Training Security Act is not only an important social policy measure, but also an important educational policy measure which is very welcome by the workers' organisations and, of course, also by the SPÖ. In my opinion, this not only gives young people a chance for training, but it is also a step towards young people's right to training. As a reminder - the Federal Ministers have already pointed out - the following: The National Employment Action Plan provides for a reception network for those young people who will not be able to find a place to teach in autumn 1998. [[Abg. Gaugg: What else should you do? Send you to the street?]] Now, through appropriate training projects - such as apprenticeships and apprenticeships - 2 500 and 1 500 young people can each receive suitable training places. As these are generally low-income groups of young people, a financial charge is also guaranteed and ensured for these young people. I also think it is particularly important that the trainees are equal to the apprentices in employment and social law. Of course, it remains the main objective of all these measures to enable young people, whenever possible, to enter into a regular teaching relationship. I would also like to stress that a committee statement states that the spatial capacity of all schools can, of course, be used free of charge for the training purposes of these courses. I also think it is important that vocational teachers should be involved in courses, but also in apprenticeships, and that appropriate vocational training plans should also be adapted or re-designed. Mr Oellinger! I believe that the teaching should also be understood as an alternative to continuing non-education in order to allow particularly disadvantaged young people a certain standard of professional qualification. [[Abg. Oils: He defends them too!]] [[Abg. Oils: There is no difference except that he gets less paid!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a very limited speaking time and I have come to the end. All the measures mentioned above - courses, apprenticeships, teaching - are, together with the measures provided for in the School Education Act - the support of the repetitious ban in secondary and higher schools, but also the possibility of resurgence of the primary school course - an opportunity for young people to secure their right to education.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4537	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4556	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is no reason to rejoice at all. What is praised here is nothing but an emergency programme for apprenticeship employment. The failure of the Federal Government, the lack of economic policy, the unattractive teachings, the loss of the social prestige for apprentices, an income situation for skilled workers, especially in the public service, which ridicules every description - these are the causes! [[Abg. Kiermaier: This is a schmarr'n!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] In reality, there are no alternatives at the moment, except for those that actually leave young people on the streets. This is not a special achievement in God, because the question of financial viability is still in the room. If we consider that for 4,000 young people 1.8 billion schilling is needed in two years, each 1.8 billion, and if we note that 1.1 billion schilling had to be used for 1 850 young people in 1997 then it can be seen that there will certainly be a gap to close. [[Federal Minister Hostasch: Ewehls!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, it is impossible to understand why students with a positive degree of education receive 2 000 S per month - and, contrary to that, a person with a negative degree in apprenticeships deserves 2 985 S. No one really understands how that's supposed to happen at all! Since today the "Seriosity of the Federal Government" has been repeatedly stressed by Mr Novotny, I would like to clarify the following: Before the Committee meeting, there was an application concerning apprenticeship employment with a funding of 500 million schilling. During the Committee meeting it was hoped that it would actually have failed to do so for 4,000 apprentices and to provide 1.8 billion schilling. - Mrs. Federal Minister, that was so! We received these documents from the opposition only during the committee meeting. This is your form of "serious" policy and "economic" measures! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The teaching must also be questioned. This opens a gate that you would better not have opened, for the following reason: They have the biggest problems today to accommodate apprentices with serious and solid diplomas. Now you also want to bring the others to the labour market! I can only give you "a lot of pleasure!" You're sure you won't succeed. There will be nothing more than the use of cheap helpers in this way. To the dual education system we confess ourselves with a clear yes! But you should consider whether block schooling should not be forced. The crazy weekly - each one-day or one-and-a-half-day - school days, which constantly give the apprentice... [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's going to be changed!]] Yes, in individual sub-areas, but why not expand this, Mrs. Federal Minister? It's always like this: Born from distress, laws are passed with us! If we do not have any apprenticeships at our disposal, then the school leavers will continue to be employed in any dubious courses. It is almost absurd when apprentice promotions are created that exclude those companies that are constantly training apprentices, and if other companies take fresh apprentices only because of the financially lucrative offers because they receive a financial contribution. This is an injustice - thank God! - has been abolished. But there are many areas where I am convinced that the economy today would be willing to train more apprentices, if - I say it again - a corresponding income is guaranteed and if it also allows the economic conditions. If I am thinking on my own that a company in the tableware industry with 80 employees has to spend every year on the evaluation of 150 000 S, I must say: That's scandalous! For, Mrs Minister, the money could be used much more rationally for apprentices, and that would be a useful contribution to youth employment!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4632	Mr Dr. Drinkl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4650	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Sometimes I feel useless", is today an article in the "Presse". I quote: "Sorry and unscrupulous - these are the young people who have to wait for their apprenticeship." The People's Party has identified the problem at an early stage, and we have been working hard for years to improve the framework for dual training. In fact, we have done a lot of things. However, the school leavers of 1998 and 1999 face major challenges again, and we are required to solve the burning problem of youth employment. In this context, dual training must continue to be at the centre of our interest. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The courses and apprenticeships provided for in the Youth Training Security Act for young people who, despite all efforts, cannot find a place of training can only be seen as whatever they are: as a catch-up network, almost as an ultima ratio for all cases. It is hoped, however, that they will never be used - only a net under the high rope can be considered. So I warn of every euphoria. You can't buy apprenticeships in the long run. If, in fact, 6 000 young people in two years of age are using the net, the costs per apprentice and month are calculated at 12 000 S to 18 000 S. I think that this money could also create a lot of real apprenticeships in training establishments. Therefore, due to the high cost, we must do everything we can to motivate additional training establishments. It seems to me to be a good proposal from the Federal Chamber of Commerce to provide for the use of so-called apprenticeship developers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are intended to go to the enterprises and try to develop new apprenticeships. Such "living apprenticeships" should be an advice to the economy and explain to the firms the benefits of apprenticeship training accordingly. A second positive approach seems to me to be the efforts of the Minister of Economic Affairs to create new teaching professions. Last year alone, 31 new apprenticeships have been introduced. Calculations have shown that these 31 new apprenticeships can create about 1,000 new apprenticeships. I mean, that's the right way. He's done well, and he doesn't cost anything. The introduction of the teaching system offers young people, in particular, the opportunity of training which has not yet been able to find employment. In particular, underprivileged young people should be given the opportunity to reach a conclusion within the framework of teaching. Overall, the Federal Government is very much required to promote a comprehensive information and image campaign for the creation of apprenticeships in the economy. Problems in the apprenticeship market can only be solved in the long run - this has been done by a preliminary speaker, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, who has already said - together with the companies. If we succeed, today's decision remains what it is supposed to be: a fishing net that hopefully will never come to fruition.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4709	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4727	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We liberals confess to the dual education system. I can only confirm this to Mrs Schaffenrath over and over again. In the Committee too, we have repeatedly said that this is our line. But if we are discussing the Youth Education Security Act today, we believe that this legislative text is limited to those rules that are absolutely necessary in order to ensure that the additional 500 million schilling can be distributed between 1998 and 2002 in aid for the creation of youth training places. However, we are again expecting some 36 000 jobseekers - and this at an unemployment rate of 218,891 unemployed at the end of May 1998. This means an increase of 3.7 percent compared to the previous year, and this is more than 7 898 workers who have become unemployed. In addition, the graduates of vocational and general education schools as well as pupils who have voluntarily attended a secondary school because of the strained labour market. The SPÖ/ÖVP coalition has defined the development of teaching professions in the National Action Plan and assigned them to a great deal of importance. The Ministry of Social Affairs has even announced that the Pentecostal working groups will immediately present measures to address the problem of teaching professions. However, the only thing that has been presented so far is disputes of competence between the coalition partners, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: No, that's not true!]] If one is present in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, one hears that Minister Farnleitner is saying that nothing is going on in the Ministry of Social Affairs. And if you sit in the Committee on Social Affairs, you can hear that nothing goes on in the economic field. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is a subject that can be said today: We don't stand for five minutes, but five minutes after twelve. The measures contained in this draft law are, in our view, just a drop on the hot stone. The deeper, structural reasons for the still low supply of apprenticeships remain untreated. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Although this law serves to repair government failures, it is in the interest of the apprentices, the workers. What I also have to criticise is that this law reinforces the tendency that the economy will only provide training if they are properly promoted. This is certainly not the right way either. I do not even blame the economy for this state of affairs, but I say: This is a failure of the great coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's clear to us freeman: The apprentices are the skilled workers of tomorrow. I do not think that it would be in the interests of our economy if a future shortage of skilled workers in Austria would, so to speak, only be compensated for by the import of less qualified foreign skilled workers.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4771	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4789	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If one understands the discussion over the last two or two and a half hours, it can be found that only negative things were said about the work of the government. If I remember Austria's international position on the unemployment rate, I must say that the government's work cannot be as negative as you criticise it from the opposition. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is already starting with Mr Haidlmayr when she says again that protected workshops are all bad and we need integrative jobs. Mrs Haidlmayr - she's not here now, maybe you'll hear me anyway! Integrative jobs are good and beautiful when available. But if they are not available, then it is very good that there are protected workshops, because the disabled get nothing from the compensation tax that must be paid. The disabled want to work, and in the protected workshops they can work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are already at the second point. The labour market now needs qualified workers, as in recent years. No one with poor or low qualifications currently has a chance to apply at all. If there is now a possibility that people with personal barriers to mediation - that is, if they are physically or psychologically disabled - may perhaps create the way to dual training, through the field of so-called teaching, then it cannot be as bad as you have described it here and now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is simply so that there are young people who are in development somewhat later than others who have delayed development. If the teaching makes it possible for such a youth of 16 years of age to be able to take up a teaching profession, and if that time is also reckoned, it can't be that wrong and bad! As it has also been criticised that only experienced educational institutions are involved in such training, I would like to say here and today: It is the first time that we are giving financial support, not to invest in machines, but to people. Those educational institutions that have already made investments can start action immediately. Other educational institutions would first have to invest. On the part of the Federal Government, it says: Investments for these purposes must not be used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4844	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4863	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a compliment to the Federal Government: It has certainly put the fight against youth unemployment to its goal. - So you've recognized the target. The question is: If you have also achieved this objective, are the measures you are setting useful, and will they serve to achieve the goal? They now - after 1997 - take a second time in 1998 and 1999 a very costly path, a way to create 4,000 jobs, and in two years per square, this will cost around 500 000 S, i.e. a quarter of a million schilling per year and place. Mrs. Federal Minister! They go a way of distortion of competition between those apprenticeships who, of course, continue to take up young people, and those who are waiting for what there is to be harvested when a young person has previously attended an apprenticeship fund or a course if one can save a first year of teaching or a few months of schooling. They have recognized that youth unemployment is the greatest poison for a society, but despite all the commitment to dual training - as Nurembergers and many others have repeatedly done here - are not really prepared to work on a reform of dual training. See, then, that dual training in this form will bring less young people into training each year! This form of dual training, as you have overloaded them with costs and regulations for decades, will be less and less effective if you do not have the courage to really reform them and understand what Styrian countrymen - that is, Dr. Drinkl wrote in the main book - have thought a year and a half ago that we must decouple teaching and schooling in dual education. These are two pairs of shoes! Now you do it in the models you propose, Mrs. Federal Minister! They decouple them at the apprenticeship foundation, they decouple them at the courses when you say that the apprentice should also work in the company. He will have the status of a trainee there and be much cheaper than another apprentice, for whom he will also have to pay all school hours as an apprentice compensation. Do you understand that only this decoupling between the vocational schooling and the teaching period opens the way to actually establish the teaching as a new, inclusive third pillar of secondary education? They need to reform vocational schools. Some of them are well-informed, but some of them are also taught the scrap of the past. We do not need a vocational school in which the wisdom of the eighties is proclaimed, but one in which young people are explained the year 2000 and the future! The training must also be that way. Invest your funds in vocational schools there! Disconnect You vocational schooling and working time! Then you can also extend vocational schooling there or where it is necessary, where it is useful, where the young girl or the young boy wants it, in a modular system. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We shall come to this - this is an issue for the Committee on Education - that in Austria there is an obligation to train until the 18th century. ==References== The world is becoming ever more complex. The citizens of the European Union must be able to speak foreign languages. The Easter enlargement can only exist if we teach our young people at least basic knowledge of the languages: in Carinthia a little Slovenian, in Styria also a little Slovenian, in Burgenland somewhat Hungarian, and in Upper Austria it will be Czech. Then there will be a real Easter expansion, then we will also have further understanding. In other words, the young people's need for training is increasing. But just as we manage the dual training system, I think it will have less and less future. Mrs. Hostasch has literally said: he has the courage to make new decisions, dare new attempts to take a new course. - Mrs. Federal Minister! Those were words. But with what you're giving us here, you spend a lot of money, you can reach a strawfire in the short term, but in the medium term you even harm in the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4918	Mr Murauer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e4936	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of the Austrian People's Party and the Federal Government was clear: We need to give our young people training and apprenticeships. Despite the opposition's unmistakable calls: Clear steps have been taken, steps that will make it easier for the economy and enable the economy to train apprentices. - The economy has responded, and we've got more courses! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would remind you that it was very important to take account of the teaching in order to enable the less gifted to train. That is necessary, Mrs Schaffenrath, even if you do not want to see it! We have created for these new careers, which at the same time meet the economic requirements. I would also like to remind you that the law on child and youth employment has been corrected, which has also meant the reduction of bureaucracy and the reduction of barriers to the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Mr President, I should like to thank The economy now has an apprenticeship allowance of 20,000 p. The dual vocational training in Austria, which has proved itself internationally and naturally nationally, has been secured so that the training and employment of young people in our country has the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, we are adopting a time-limited law to guarantee those young people an education that does not have the opportunity to get a apprenticeship. In particular, I am pleased that my hometown of Steyr has already responded to it and has presented a programme that can be seen in the Foundation. Mr Nürnberger, you have spoken about crisis areas in which there are foundations. I would like to correct this for Steyr for safety reasons: This is no longer a crisis area, we are already far beyond the crisis! There, forward-looking professions are offered to ensure that these young people continue to have a chance to be employed and admitted to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention a advertising drop: the night rest period for the gastronomy. In this area, we still need to make corrections and send a signal. I should like to ask you to make it possible for us to implement this regulation before the summer, so that young people can work until 23 o'clock and have their rest until 7 o'clock in the morning. Because the gastronomy needs that - and the young people want it too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to work on it, we will have to reform further, we will in particular have to enable our economy to train and train our apprentices. I believe that the economy is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5001	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. As there is no final word from the rapporteur, we are immediately entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the place for that purpose. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1261 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. - This too is done by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1262 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would like an appropriate sign. - This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask you, if you would also like to give the draft law at third reading the approval to give an appropriate sign. - This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 18. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (1105 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Land Labor Act 1984 (1130 of Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1049 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Training Act (1131 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5097	I now call on points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5124	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A short last word: They have done nothing but implement an EU directive with the Land Labour Act, which is in itself just a lievable one. However, to carry out this whole thing, you need so much paper and in addition nine national laws! [[The speaker shall hold up an impact of written documents]] I will therefore not get tired of always pointing out here in the House that it is not enough to talk about debureaucratisation, but that one must live debureaucratisation. Did you not say that you want a uniform worker's right? The agricultural workers don't belong to that? Why Make You then, for 30,000 agricultural workers, a falling number of employees, such an extensive federal law, to which nine other national laws are added, Mrs Bundesminister? That's your bureaucrat form? This creates employment, you are right: They're dealing with a lot of people to do this! Is this your way of producing bureaucracy because you are not able to settle a question for 30,000 agricultural workers under normal labour law, because this is by chance a matter of land? There must then be nine landing days to pass laws so that these nine land days can justify why they exist at all! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the scandal in this EU adaptation. To this kind of legislation you say in Sunday's speeches that there will be a debureaucratisation and a restriction of the law flood, but now you do exactly the opposite! This is the way of this federal government: On Sunday you will talk nicely, and decide at 2.30 p.m. in the evening Then you're such a nonsense!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5164	Mr Grabner has also been mentioned. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5182	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the Land Arbeitsgesetz-Novelle: Principles for the implementation of the following EU Directives were established: the Technical Workers' Protection Directive, the Mother Protection Directive, the Working Time Directive and the Youth Working Time Directive. Another objective of this draft is the approximation of the legal status of agricultural and forestry workers to that of workers subject to the leave law and the working time law. The Working Time Directive and the Youth Working Time Directive have been implemented by analogy in the Novelle Working Time Act and the Novelle Child and Youth Employment Act. The more flexible design possibilities introduced by the Novelle Working Time Act with regard to working time, such as gliding time or calculation models, have been included, as far as they are relevant to agriculture and forestry, in the Workers Protection section, with the essential that daily working time is for the first time absolutely limited. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft includes measures to improve the safety and health of workers at work in the form of framework directives governed by twelve separate directives. In my opinion, the directive on the protection of workers from the risks posed by chemical, physical and biological agents at work constitutes a framework that is further implemented by four individual directives and is a right way for the future of occupational safety. The draft LAG-Novelle includes the implementation of the principles of these Directives in the field of technical worker protection for agricultural workers, as far as the rules of the Directives are of practical importance for agriculture and forestry. It is of particular importance that the Directives on the protection of workers should be based on a comprehensive understanding of the protection of workers and, in particular, must also take account of issues relating to the organisation of work, the physical load and the impact of the environment on the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few words on the Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Training Act Novelle: The aim of this amendment is to provide for the possibility of making the implementing legislation of certain teaching professions from other legal areas, in particular from the industrial sector, related to those in the agricultural and forestry sectors, and at the same time to define the extent to which the training periods are taken into account. The current legal situation regarding the recognition of apprenticeship training in the industrial and agricultural and forestry sectors was unsatisfactory. This lack is now to be eliminated by this innovation. Ladies and gentlemen! This change of law will allow for greater mobility and flexibility in apprenticeship training and vocational training.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5222	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5241	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have actually managed to speak for the third time, it is also social debates. The government template, which amends the Land Labor Act 1984, basically contains nothing but amendments under EU Directives. However, these changes could have been made as early as 1995. It focuses on the protection of workers, the employment of children and young people as well as on the protection of mothers. The new rules, similar to those in the industrial economy, result in an increase in bureaucracy, and they also cause more costs. However, family members or family members are, for the most part, completely excluded. § 3 states: "From this federal law are, without prejudice to the Abs. 3. the family-owned staff except." Thus, this law does not apply to family servants - spouses, children, children's children, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, parents and grandparents. If there are so many exceptions by which the person concerned is so restricted, the following questions already arise: Why do we need this law at all? Isn't it even superfluous? What if the servant is still adopted? Then nobody's left at all! Then this law doesn't make any sense at all! In my opinion, this is a disparity between workers. In principle, there is no protection of workers in the field of local authorities. These are the two serious points, and that is why we will not vote in favour of this government proposal. I believe that worker protection must be the same for all, but also useful. On the Government template, the Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Training Act concerning only a short sentence: This government template makes the forms of training in the field of trade and agriculture more compatible. That's positive. That is why we will give our approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5284	Mr Donabauer has also been mentioned on the floor. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5302	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This bill regulates the Technical Workers' Protection Directive, the Mother Protection Directive, the Working Time Directive and the Youth Labour Protection Directive implemented in the EU. Furthermore, the approximation of the legal status of agricultural and forestry workers to those who are subject to the Holiday Time Act and the Working Time Act is to take place. [[Abg. May. Peter: Don't read the whole law!]] Mr Peter! I am sorry that you are producing yourself here and that, although the law is here to demonstrate its scope, it obviously did not deal with the content of this law! They have been one of those who have stepped feet from here on federalism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: And you are a terrible bureaucracy maker!]] I'm telling you quite frankly what you want: You want to be federalist on the one hand, but on the other hand centralist! However, federalism is indivisible, Mr Mag. Peter! You can draw this lesson from this debate and take it home! The flexibility of working time is done here in a principle scheme, but the implementation must, of course, be carried out at country level, because it is better to comply with the specific circumstances and requirements. - That's the point of the matter, and that has nothing to do with your polemics you've presented here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, the day-to-day working time will be re-regulated. All of this is in the law, and in view of the advanced time, I will spare you explanations. In addition, the weekly working time is now set at 40 hours in principle; for all staff who live in the household with the service provider, it may be 42 hours. In the context of worker protection, it is noted that the central approach to safety, health and comprehensive occupational protection is at work. Mr Dolinschek said that he could not begin with the term 'family-owned'. - Mr Dolinschek, you also spoke of "employees". I would like to point out to you that it is called "service" law. And it's very easy: Family members are all those who live in the family community and who are not subject to the discipline of service providers. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Who's left then?]] For this reason - that is exactly what the law says - they do not have to be subject to worker protection provisions. That's a good thing we're living with, you have to learn that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] The amendment to the Vocational Training Act concerns the creation of conditions for the mutual recognition of training in the industrial and agricultural and forestry sectors. The dual training is therefore also legally possible in this area. I believe that this is a good condition for a positive development in the labour market. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5381	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. A final word by the rapporteurs does not take place. We are entering the voting procedure and I would ask you to take the place. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1105 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. - This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for a similar sign. - This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1049 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. - This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask you, if you would also like to give the draft law at third reading the approval to give an appropriate sign. - This is also done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 20. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 745/A by Mr Mag. Walter Guggenberger, Dr. Günther Leiner and comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the Medical Law 1984 and the Hospital Law (1269 of Supplements) 21. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (1166 of Supplements): Federal Act on the Cardiotechnic Service (cardiotechnics G - KTG) (1272 of Supplements) 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 435/A (E) by Mrs Theresia Haidlmayr and others on the legalisation of cannabis (1148 of the supplements) 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 445/A (E) by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on the decriminalisation of cannabis (1149 of the supplements) 24. Point Report by the Health Committee on motion for a resolution 678/A (E) by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on pilot projects for a medically controlled heroin levy on addicts (1150 of the supplements) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 26. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 536/A (E) by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on the current arrangements for all health and health care professions (1270 of the Supplements) 27. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 537/A (E) by Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades on the anchoring of training in health and health care in the tertiary sector (1271 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5548	I now call on the agenda items 20 to 27 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first speech is by Mrs Pumberger. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The topic of number one in Austria is the tomorrow day of action of the doctors - it has already been discussed today in the "time in the picture". However, the agenda today does not address any of the issues and problems affecting Austrian health policy. It is clear from this that Austrian health policy has been passing reality for months or years! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Mr. Pumberger! Do you have a house apotheque?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! It is time to really address those problems that lead to a weakening of Austrian health care! The agenda, which has been supplemented by two other points today - quite surprisingly - includes five Committee reports from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which deal exclusively with health and safety at work. These relate primarily to opposition applications, on the basis of which there are thousands of newly created jobs in health professions. For example, if you put the old-age professionals - a request from me - and the family workers on a firm basis and give them a professional profile, you could create thousands of jobs! In the same way, the Liberal Forum's requests for the creation of a current system for health and health care professions or for the establishment of training in health and health care in the tertiary sector are similar. - However, these points are not a matter for the coalition parties, all of which are rejected by the coalition parties, while in the same growing up, for example, the ÖVP holds a press conference after another... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you have a house apotheque?]] I'm talking about the ÖVP now, you're not in the line yet, but you're already coming! The EIA is first and foremost among job-creating workers and says that it creates 30 000 jobs in health care. - Dear to me. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! With the Cardiotechnic Law, you did not create 30 000 jobs, not 3 000, not 300, not 30, not even three, but only one and a half a year! This is your "employment initiative"! But I am very glad that you have managed to create at least one and a half new jobs a year. One and a half cardiologists are trained each year, and for these cardio technicians - who really need a good training, I am standing for it - you have made your own law. It all went quickly, it was done well, it was made a whole law, it happened to the Health Committee, and it is tutti palletti. However, in other laws, which are equally labor-intensive, which could create thousands of jobs - half-day jobs especially for women who, because they have children, can only work half-dayly - you are inactive. And this shows the failure of the employment policy of this coalition government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the health and nursing law that you have introduced, you have - and that's really funny! - the core of the Act in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with an amendment in the last minute. It would have been at the heart of the law that nurses with one year's education should be allowed to do the work of medically educated staff, of qualified nurses and nurses and doctors - such as blood loss and medication administration. However, there have been enormous protests by the trade unions concerned, by the Federal Health Working Party and by the Trade Union Confederation, which have said that they are not known to them by an EU Member State in which the auxiliary staff is so left alone and overexposed. You have then repaired this in the last minute, we have agreed to it, and therefore we will give our consent to the amendment of this health and nursing law. Different from the cardiotechnical law: There are 39 cardiologists throughout Austria; one-and-a-half to two are needed each year. We now have a new law for that. The profession of the cardiologist is a responsible profession. It is covered to the full by Austrian personnel. One can be satisfied with the content of the Act on Vocational Training, which is entirely in the sense of the cardiologists. However, we do not agree with the rules on notification. These have some gaps, similar to the relevant provisions in the MTD Act, and we will therefore not agree to this bill, but we will apply for it, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] For these reasons, we do not agree with this bill. - Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5682	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has also been reported to speak. Maier. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5703	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been an evening miracle if Mr Pumberger had remained honest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know his argument. That is why I shall now try to disprove them in my speech. I would like to point out that we do not deliberately discuss this medical strike. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I just cut that short!]] Mr Pumberger! You have addressed this topic at the beginning of your speech. To that end, I say: We are not dealing with state-of-the-art policy in this House, but with health policy. That is what is to be discussed here today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Last year we created our own professional right for the nursing department and the care workers. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In addition to caring in the narrower sense, cooperation in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures on medical arrangements also belongs to the respective professional image. The changes now planned are primarily intended to take into account the requirements of practice. The proposal on which we are to vote today was jointly drawn up in agreement with the Section for Health Care in the ÖGB, which is certainly a very difficult professional group. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I should like to thank the staff members of the Ministry for their commitment and for the acribie with which they have prepared this novel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the subject of this novel? - On the one hand, medical instructions in medically justified exceptional cases may be made orally, that written orders may be made by fax or by automatic data transmission. It is about extending the activities for health and health care professionals to other health and social institutions. However, it is also about extending vocational training to four or two years. However, I consider the new regulations for care workers to be the main focus. I do not share the opinion of Mr Pumberger. It is about clarifying the activities of caregivers who do not sufficiently meet the requirements of health and health care according to the current legal situation. It is about nursing measures on the one hand, and it is about cooperation in therapeutic and diagnostic operations. Care measures may only be carried out under the supervision of and under the supervision of members of the raised health and health care service. Now we become an Abs. 5 where these activities may be carried out in individual exceptional cases and on a limited time without supervision, provided that the health status of the person in need of care allows for this activity and that the arrangement has been made in writing. In such cases, the authorising person shall subsequently control the implementation. We have also reached an agreement with the Section for Health Affairs, which has agreed. It must not be forgotten that supervision continues to be maintained. Mrs. Federal Minister! May I perhaps pass on a small suggestion from the trade union side. Ladies and gentlemen have told me that the name 'care workers' is negative. They wish that in the near future - in the case of one of the next novels - it will be checked whether it would not be possible to change the name "care helpers" to "health and care assistants". Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me briefly comment on the ÖVP's request for an amendment to the Pharmacopoeia Act. We see no need for such action and believe that this path is simply wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's what the coalition partner brought in!]] We will, however, discuss this issue elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: He's not thinking about the patients, the Maier!]] I'm talking about saying it very clearly here: We have created a new structure in Austrian health policy with the performance-oriented health care facilities, the introduction of a reputation and the Medical Working Time Act. There can't be a standstill. In this sense, I would ask you to give your consent to our proposals today.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5796	Mrs Klara Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5814	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I am very excited about the debate on the request for a pharmacy law, and I must tell you now. I hope that you will maintain the attitude you have now taken in the debate even if we are going to negotiate it in the Committee on Health. Mr Pumberger! I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will be able to make a statement on this matter. You will recall that we discussed them in committee last Wednesday. They have been forgotten, so they have not been put on the agenda until later, and are now being completed, namely, rejected. Unfortunately it is! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Unfortunately!]] As far as the cardiotechnical law is concerned, I would like to point out that the service of a cardiologist - unfortunately missing in the law the female or a gender-neutral name; since we know that there are already three ladies in this profession, I would like to call on the legislator to refrain from writing only the male term into the law in the future - that this new medical profession is a highly responsible one, as is the case with all professions in the health field, because the quality of life of people is at stake everywhere. Similar to the Health and Care Act or the MTD Act, professional image, training and recognition of training are also regulated by law in the Cardiotechnic Act. That's important and it's also right. For us Liberals, however, it is not understandable why you have to make your own law for 39 cardio technicians. This contradicts the liberal principles of red tape reduction and the reduction of our legislative jungle, as well as liberal confidence in self-responsibility and subsidiarity, especially in less regulated professions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We also believe that optimal training is not guaranteed by laws, but rather by the commitment of those concerned and by the importance that has been attributed to the cardiotechnical profession in hospitals, for example, and will continue to contribute in the future. Unfortunately, my question was not answered by the Committee, for which reason it was not possible to place this health profession in the MTD or the Health and Hospital Care Act. I would like to know why the path to this regulation has lasted for 12 years and why there has been no way of integrating it into existing laws. Since for this reason we do not agree with the draft law, I can - also for temporary reasons - save myself - to look more closely at its content. Ladies and gentlemen! On our proposal 445/A (E) concerning the decriminalisation of cannabis, I would like to say that I regret the inconsistency of the majority of this House. I think you should not close your eyes if you know, even through scientific findings, that by using cannabis products, the health risk is significantly lower than that of alcohol or nicotine. In Austria these are subject exclusively to the provisions of the Youth Protection Act - and no one else. In this context, the argument that cannabis should be considered as an entry-level drug can also be rejected. [[Abg. Steibl: You don't believe that yourself, colleague!]] It is only in that it is correct when the current practice of pushing the sale of hashish and marijuana in the illegal market leads to the proximity to other dangerous drugs. That is why the separation of markets is so important, ladies and gentlemen. On Amendment No 678/A (E) concerning pilot projects for a medically controlled heroin levy to severely addicted patients - he will today also be rejected by the majority here - I would like to say that I am convinced that this discussion is far from complete and that we will also have the opportunity to deal with this matter in the future. I am convinced that medical reason will come to a breakthrough. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am quite accustomed to the rejection of our motions for resolutions, as is the motion for a resolution 536/A (E) on current arrangements for all health and health care professions. It is in the room that since the revision of the Health and Occupational Care Act of 1st century. September 1997 some health professions of a scheme, such as health care services, rescue aunts, ordination assistants or dental assistants. In particular, the increased requirements for medicine and technology as well as the increasingly important position of different forms of therapy require that training regulations and regulations be reformed and legislated throughout the health sector. I should therefore like to draw the attention of the next motion for a resolution. It deals with the anchoring of training in health and health care in the tertiary sector. Amendment No 537/A (E) was also rejected in the Committee with the votes of the government parties, although it should be known that, in the light of the extended qualifications for diplomats, accompanying measures must also be created for teachers, so that there is no levelling down. I hope that, in the future, there will be room for understanding in order to maintain a balanced health system in Austria. The report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 745/A by Mr Mag. Guggenberger and Dr. Leiner concerning a federal law that amends the Health and Hospital Care Act, the Medical Law 1984 and the Hospital Law, we will give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5880	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5898	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With a few thoughts on the request to amend the Health and Hospital Care Act, I would like to take a brief look at it. Time has already progressed, and there will be many speakers here, so to speak. The need for qualified care services is obvious: People get older and older. I would just like to mention a few figures. The number of 65-year-olds will rise by 33 percent by 2010 and the number of 84-year-olds by 75 percent. That these people do not get healthier the older they become is perfectly clear. - I hope to reach this age too. In health professions, of course, a great deal has also been done and changed in the field of work organisation. First of all, I believe that the burden of work in the health services has increased. The administrative and organisational activities are becoming more and more a millstone of care from their scope and effort. Not least, dealing with and monitoring medical and technical equipment is a very heavy burden on the caregivers. In addition, the trend is that the doctors are more likely to shift from the work that takes a lot of time, namely talking to the patient, to the care staff. That's an experience I've made personally. The organizational facts, the social conditions and the need for qualified care forces us to think about what a qualified care actually is. Believe me, if I tell you that I am one who works in such institutions, I know what requirements the practitioners of these care professions are really exposed to! They are required to have professional qualifications, awareness of responsibility, human maturity, ethical competence, mental and physical stamina, organizational skills, economic consciousness, leadership and sensitivity. It is now about creating the appropriate political framework for this, and I think that this law will succeed. I would like to point out very briefly that the countries should actually implement the supervisions laid down in the Hospital Law. Because the related strong mental stress also needs mental care. I would also like to point out that training, which is also required, should also be forced. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to job security or creation. You created jobs for one and a half people. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] I have created 700 in Salzburg alone in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out that we have created 2 500 jobs in the extra-mural sector in Salzburg. This conversation, which really disregards any reality, is not at all necessary, indeed just stupid. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Pumberger needs a doctor!]] I was just about to say that. As far as the future is concerned, studies suggest that in ten years' time, health professionals will have the double job creation. We already have 200 000 jobs in this area, so perhaps 200 000 will be added in ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: One and a half!]] We should be aware of these opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5955	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e5974	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is surprising today that the health and nursing law has been "repaired" within the framework of the care workers. - I've worked through this law very well and now I've been trying to find out where "repairs" have been made, which you've been talking about here all the time. I've been found. Now I'll read to you the passage that shows what you call "repair": In Article I Z 6, the following is amended: In the introductory words of § 84 para. 5 the turning "in individual cases" is replaced by the turning "in individual exceptional cases". - That's the repair. Mrs Minister, I ask you: What is the difference as to whether it is "in individual cases" or "in individual exceptional cases"? - I hardly find any difference between them. If that's the repair, then you have to get it into your mind. I would now like to take a closer look at the Health and Hospital Care Act and have prepared an amendment in this regard. Mrs. Minister! In the health and health care law, a lot would be in need of repair, and there would have been no great effort to make repairs. For example, it is in § 35 para. 1 Z 3, that nurses can and should also provide disability care. On my question as to what a nurse is doing in the care of the disabled - since one should know in the meantime that disabled people are disabled and sick people - I was told: The nurses like to care for people with disabilities. - I was told, but not by you, Mrs. Minister. That they like to do that, I can imagine without a doubt. But have you ever considered whether it would be possible for a tram maker, just because he likes to transport people, to be a pilot in air transport? - He's doing the same thing there, that is, transporting people. [[Abg. Smolle: A somewhat risky comparison!]] This idea would not come to you throughout your life, namely to say that a tram maker, just because he likes to transport people, can without further control a plane. But when it comes to people's concerns when it comes to assisting and helping people, it's supposed to be completely sausage, who cares for, like under what conditions and under what fields of work. Mrs. Minister! Disability training is an independent, qualified training. It is also intended to remain in the course of this training. If today a nurse is interested in assisting disabled people, she should be able to do so, but only on the condition that she has completed a qualified training in the field of disability education or disability care. Only then can such an activity take place. Another example, Mrs. Minister: In the Occupational Care Act, the activities of the Profession of the caregivers are now softened again. You seem to have forgotten one thing: the bad situation and the bad consequences of what happened in Lainz at that time. This happened because caregivers had to carry out activities they could not do because they had no training for them. And they shouldn't have done that either. At that time, this law was made. Now you've been making it up again: The caregivers are now allowed to care for sick people for up to 24 hours without medical supervision and without instructions. However, a caregiver cannot estimate whether the health picture allows her to care for a patient or not, but she must do it again in the future. This is what I think is an blatant evasion of the work of the caregiver, and thus there is another danger for caregivers. On one point of the Nursing Act, which describes who should receive the doctor's letter. On the one hand, he should be sent to the doctor who is still treating, for the individual, to all persons active in the care sector. But what about the patient himself? Shouldn't he get his own doctor's letter? Ladies and gentlemen! I think just the patient has a right to receive the doctor's letter and to have the information on what his health or illness image looks like. It is not legitimate and contradicts the patient's right to self-determination if he has no claim to his own findings and to his health report. That is changed, this right belongs extended! I have tabled an amendment on this subject and I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to bring this request into the law very soon. I assume that this law will have to be amended soon so that the caregivers are not put back into an empty space, so to speak. Now to the cardiotechnical law, Mrs. Minister,...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6006	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to make sure that you have now announced that you have tabled an amendment but have not yet submitted it. You should read it, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6022	I propose this amendment, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] But now to the cardiotechnical law. Mrs Minister, it is surprising that there is not even a law for 40 cardiologists. We recently had a petition from the ÖVP in the Committee on Petitions called "Stop of the Flood of Law" for treatment. But now a new flood of law is being made for 39 people. The cardiotechnical law could have been classified in the law on medical and technical services. However, because you have created a law of your own, there is now, of course, also the possibility and the right to plead for a law of your own, for example, when it comes to endoscopy. On this request concerning cannabis. This is a very old proposal too, Mrs Minister. I mean, it has long been proven medically that it is useful and good to use cannabis in the medical field, especially in the help of cancer patients, for AIDS patients, in the field of multiple sclerosis et cetera. I think it is extremely necessary for you to accept this situation and finally make a law so that it can be legalised in the medical field. [[Abg. Steibbl: Such a fool!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The legalisation of soft drugs is also a vital issue. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is extremely unnecessary!]] We have already gone a long way in this area. I know that the ÖVP's Member of the ÖVP is always getting his hair up again and again, but it is also the situation of the ÖVP that she likes to appeal to laws that lie behind for 20 or 30 years. [[Abg. Steibl: Not the ÖVP, but responsible mothers!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Not the situation of the ÖVP, but responsible mothers!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But go! That's a hen!]] The ÖVP is not prepared to recognize the train of time and to act accordingly. [[Abg. Steibl: You can't estimate the problem at all, even if you have children!]] Mrs Steibl! We know the problem. It's not our problem, it's yours! But perhaps you will manage to jump on the train of time and to resort to laws that are modern and that at last you do not depend so much on your past and your old, traditional values and laws, but make contemporary politics. [[Abg. Steibl: "Modern" is far from "good"!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Then go out into everyday life!]] Because we are here for that, we are elected to do so, and that should apply to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6220	The amendment just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6242	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment to the Health and Care Act, the main aim is to adapt to the needs of the practice - I hope, for the benefit of patients and, above all, for the medical staff. I believe that an adjustment such as that to provide for the possibility of an oral medical arrangement with clarity and freedom of doubt is a useful change in that the current regulation is not necessary in various cases from a professional point of view and is often not feasible in everyday work. The medical arrangements relating to diagnostic and therapeutic operations shall also be assessed as to whether the activity is carried out in a hospital or in an outside area. This amendment makes it clear, on the one hand, the activities of the caregivers, and, on the other hand, that members of the professions concerned may also work in other institutions in the future, and this also opens the way for caregivers to carry out temporary activities without supervision in individual cases. By deciding that about 300 graduates of child and psychiatric nurses may continue to work in general nursing care, some are prevented or existing care systems are safeguarded. In view of the fact that Mrs Motter in the Committee has requested the professional image of rescuers, I can add that the Minister of State is working on the development of new occupations. We are aware that this novice cannot be an end. Due to the rapid development - especially in the extra-mural area - further discussions will certainly take place after a corresponding period of observation. I would also like to give some thought to the cardiotechnical law. We have heard from the opposition groups not only in the committee but also here today in the plenary that they are against it, on the grounds that 39 people concerned are not in favour of it because of the small number. There is, of course, a different view of things. Of course, the SPÖ has also discussed and discussed this question very thoroughly with the Federal Minister for the Interior. It was also discussed whether the allocation of cardiologists to an existing area would be useful - or whether there should be a law of its own. You know the result: a law of your own, and that for good reasons, as I mean. The fact that it is not easily possible to assign this professional group to another area due to this special activity is also a matter of special responsibility. There is also a legal system in Italy for this, and we know that discussions are also taking place in other European countries. The bureaucracy and also the costs that are repeatedly addressed: I can't see her. To bureaucracy: Only the establishment of an advisory board and the management of the list of technicians are required; this is a small effort. The costs resulting therefrom are not worth mentioning and are undoubtedly to be achieved through retransformations within the ministry. At the cost: Since the costs of training documents and examination fees must be borne by the trainees and the Advisory Board is held as an honorary office and thus free of charge, costs cannot be recognized either. I think that this is a good solution for the Cardiotechnic Law as a whole, which we would like to agree with. I can also invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6291	Mrs Povysil is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6309	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "A new era of drug control begins." - That was the tenor of the UN Special Conference held last week in New York. A joint political statement was adopted at the World Drug Conference, which will contribute to reducing the demand for addictions in the future as well as limiting the supply. There are currently 253 million addicts in the world, between 3 and 4 percent of the world's population. According to the latest drug report by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, 25 percent more people were sentenced to addiction crimes in 1997 than in 1996. The number of persons interested in infringing the law in connection with intoxication increased by 10 percent. The overall situation of drug policy has not changed anything at all, but it has not changed at all. Despite this situation, there are now three more requests from the Liberals and Greens. - Unfortunately, there is hardly anyone from the Greens and Liberals, only the new Member, but this is not supposed to be a personal qualification! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] I'm glad to see you! But unfortunately, none of these two groups are present, although these parties are precisely for legalising cannabis and for a state heroin levy. In this context, for example, I understand the position of Mr Motter - perhaps you can do it! - Not at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The illegal cultivation of cannabis is widespread, with approximately 500 000 tonnes of marijuana and hashish produced annually. That's incredible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofmann.]] You figured it out first: It's 100 grams per person in the world's population! The UN itself clearly warns against the release of so-called soft drugs, specifically from the liberalisation of hashish. And the president of the United Nations Drug Control Council, Hamin Ghodse, criticizes both athletes and musicians who, as he says, send a false signal to young people when they take medals despite cannabis Abusus or for example create songs in which they sing the blessing of Ecstasy. Ladies and gentlemen! 69 percent of the Austrians reject the release of Haschisch. It was decriminalized in the Netherlands. But was this slowing down the consumption? - No, no, no, no, Did this decriminalize the scene in any way? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Has this broken down the drug mafia, which is always a concern of the Liberals and Greens? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] I am glad that you are here, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't see you at first! Was that the drug mafia smashed? - No, no, no, no, Drugs represent one of the largest economic factors in the world. [[New call of the abg. Mother.]] This question is so naive that it hurts too much! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, there is no justification for a new drug to be placed on the market if other drugs - as you yourself admitted - are already on the market, namely alcohol and nicotine! Nothing justifys the medical use of hashish or heroin if we already have appropriate medicines available and therefore no clear progress can be made towards existing drugs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What would actually bring about a drug release? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: nothing!]] A drug release would probably only benefit the drug and pharmaceutical industries, which, with all their advertising experience, would then fall on the marketing of these drugs. Drug policy is a mirror of society in which it is made. The central point of the drug threat lies in the fictitious perception of drugs, so that empty spaces can be covered, which society repeatedly produces through the failure of needs, dreams and interpersonal relationships. The right to the noise, as the liberals and the Greens demand, is opposed to the prevention of opportunities for self-reliance. I do not want my child to flee into the noise in a psychologically difficult situation! I don't want my son in this consciousness of a changed state to himself and his fellow human beings... [[Abg. Smolle: This is demagogy!]] It's not demagogy, it's realism! This is the realism of a mother who sees the dangers her child would face through a too liberal drug policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not wish, Mr President, to see my son get into a mental dependence from which he can find himself difficult or no solution at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Who wants this from his child!]] Finally, let go of this truly outdated romantic destruction of a drug policy! Please finally become a realist - and not a demagogue!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6426	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6444	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on two points which were discussed in the Committee on Health in April, namely the request made by Mr Haidlmayr on the legalization of cannabis - but it does not even find it worth it, during this discussion, it gives its opinion, and then the matter is obviously done for them! - and also on the statements made by Mr Klara Motter, who said that decriminalization of cannabis would bring about the wonder of the world. [[Abg. Smolle: It would be a miracle if you understood honourable Members Mother!]] I am thinking back with very mixed feelings of debate in the Committee on Health. I am not here as an expert, but as a normal mortal member of the Health Committee. However, as a trained and also practicing life and social advisor, I can say a lot about this. I think that if Mr Haidlmayr says that the risk of hard drugs could be decriminalized by decriminalizing "soft" drugs, this thought has been brought far down. This is not portable for our society. I see, when I go after my work in Styria, day after day, what mothers are doing, whose children change from so-called soft drugs to harder. This cannot be a solution for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Their arguments are very misleading, in my opinion they are usually well-founded and very often wrong. With such a "solution", we do not improve the reality of the addicts! [[Abg. Smolle: Do you think that we are improving their situation with criminalisation?]] In this context, we must fight for a lot to improve the present state. I believe that the release of drugs is equivalent to an increase in drug use, and an increase in drug use is equivalent to an increase in the number of drug addicts, which in turn means more violence, abuse and increased health risk, which in turn brings increased costs to our society. [[Abg. Smolle: Why does Leiner Heroin demand a health certificate?]] This is my opinion on this, and I am not going to let you get involved in a conversation now! We had long enough time to discuss this in the Committee on Health. Finally, I would like to stress: I believe that liberal drugs policy leads to disaster. Rather, we must seriously consider what we really want in this state for our children, for our youth and for our future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6511	Mrs. Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6529	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few brief comments on the previous debate and on the current proposals. I would like to thank the speakers who have underlined in their remarks that they have felt it right to make a further development of the Health and Occupational Care Act in order to make even clearer statements and clarifications on their daily practice for the activities of important professional groups. I am, of course, trying to ensure that this law does not bring about a standstill, but that it is also further developed for other professional groups. I hope that I will be able to inform you later on of the results. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A short comment on the cardiotechnical law: It is true that 39 cardiologists are currently employed in Austria and are a very small professional group. About two cardiologists are trained each year. Of course, the members of this very young working group bring professional experiences of very different origin. That is why we have considered how we can best involve this professional group and the qualification of the individual members of this group in our health system. In view of the differences in the scope of this group's activities with other health professions, we have decided to create a law of our own for this small group. That is why this draft law is also being debated today, and I hope that will be decided. We have thus created a completion and legal clarification, but we have also taken a step that other countries in Europe will continue to take. I know that there are also considerations in other countries in the direction of creating legal provisions for this group. I hope that this law, with which we will create an important legal basis for a small but important number of health workers, will also find your approval! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6569	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. Please give me the following information: Since the display of the end of the speaking time does not work at the moment, I will give a short sign with the bell one minute before the end of the speaking time. If I give this bell sign, the speaker has a minute leftover. Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6593	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If you look at all the agenda items of this health debate, you can see that the whole area is family-relevant. As a family spokesperson of the Freedom Party, however, two areas are particularly important to me, and I do not want to miss out on these points. In connection with the requests made by the Liberals and the Greens on the legalisation and decriminalization of drugs and the medical heroin levy, I can only confirm the comments made by my colleague, Mr Povysil. From a more liberal point of view The side of course comes with a strict rejection; otherwise it can't be at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We all know that opinions on these scourges of humanity, drug dependence, are very different, and we also know that no government has so far found the yellow from the egg. The opinions of the experts also diverge enormously. However, 61 percent of the Austrian population refuses the release of drugs, and they are absolutely right to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been enough warning and critical votes in view of the liberalisation of the drug law, both before and after. I now quote from a statement by the Innsbruck judge Geisler, who for ten years has held this position at the Landesgericht Innsbruck in relation to drug offences, and I must say: From a liberal point of view, we can only agree with him. He says that he cannot understand liberalisation, and he is certainly one who knows the scene like no other. In his opinion, liberalisation has already been liberalised at the heart of the problem. He literally says: "A physician once told me, for the addicts the greatest hardness is the greatest kindness." The motto of "treatment instead of punishment" under which liberalisation has gone, he would rather turn into "treatment and punishment" because he knows from his experience that in many dependent people the willingness to treat is only a lip confession. They are therefore only willing to avoid any punishment. You can also read in this report that Judge Geisler also has no pleasure in the so-called methadone substitution treatment because it poses the danger of the addiction being fixed. Liberals and Greens, however, demand the complete release, so under the motto "Let yourselves be broken quietly, that is liberal!". - I would ask you to bear in mind in this regard that this addiction is also ruining fellow human beings. I would remind you that there is now a new study by Innsbruck judicial medicine on the risk of drugs in road transport. I referred to a study by the Department of Justice in Munich in 1993, which already found that 25 percent of all road accidents are due to drug impact. There is a study in Switzerland in which 40 percent is spoken in this context. If today we then adopt a "soft" resolution on the debate of these agenda items in the context of the amendment of the driving licence law, in which a specific examination procedure in this area and a corresponding legal approach is finally required, I must say: It's high time - and actually five minutes after twelve! I would like to take a brief look at the request of us liberals concerning the uniform recognition of the profession of old-age professionals: I myself have been the wife of a Tyrolean health and social spatula for 12 years, and I believe that I am going to be in conformity with you, Mrs Minister, when I say that the Tyrolean solution in the field of old care is a very good one and that training at the Innsbruck Caritas School is also a very good one. In Tyrol, there is a cross-party consensus and a cross-party demand catalogue for the expansion of the care of the elderly and the disabled. Mrs. Federal Minister! If, with our request, we call for an Article 15a agreement on the uniform recognition of the profession of old-age care, I hope that you and some of your colleagues will find their understanding! I think it is really strange to see, on the one hand, the greatest area of hope in the NAP for additional jobs in the health field, but on the other hand, to reject the creation of a uniform profession in this field. We will bring this proposal back to us today, even if you reject it, because we are convinced that new jobs can be created in this area, especially through the creation of a single profession, and because we believe that there should be a higher qualification in this area, yes, and because we are convinced that this will benefit not only unemployed women but also the ageing Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6664	Mrs Beder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The bell sign will indicate that you will have a minute's speaking time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6683	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's change to the Health and Health Act, as you have said, Mrs Minister, is an adaptation to the needs of the practice. According to the Old Medical Care Act of 1961, it was permitted to work in the intramural field in an emergency area other than the learned special care area. In the Health and Hospital Care Act, the possibility of the transfer of staff to general care at the request of the hospital holder was confirmed by the head of state until the 31st century. In December 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover Unfortunately, except in Vienna, all hospitalists in the countries have failed to apply for these permits. Therefore, 300 to 400 people are no longer expected to work in their workplace. The present application provides that, in the case of appropriate professional activity in general care, if at least six months of full employment or of longer part-time employment, the previous activity may continue to be carried out, taking into account the scope of the Health and Hospital Care Act. The time limit for the confirmation of the head of state shall be suspended. In my opinion, it is also important that § 84 para. 2 a regulation which provides for the possibility of a written arrangement for care providers in the extra-mural area by fax, and that in § 84 para. 4. the permitted activities which may be carried out by the caregiver in individual cases under the supervision of the up-to-date staff, in accordance with written medical instructions. This catalogue has been supplemented by activities such as the creation of associations, measurements of blood pressure, temperature et cetera and simple heat and light applications. The transmission of the written order by fax or by means of automation-supported data transmission is also permitted, provided that the documentation is guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about the Cardiotechnic Law; on the content of the matter, Mr Konrad will deal with it more closely. Some of the members of the Committee and also here today in plenary felt that a law was not necessary for currently 39 cardiologists working on heart lung machines. - I think it was very necessary to eliminate the appropriate legal uncertainty. For those who were now active were not yet entitled to this activity, and in the event of an incident, both the doctors who delegated this activity to persons without appropriate authorisation and the practitioners would have had to suffer criminal consequences. That is why we will be happy to agree to this draft law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6723	How visible was the optical display works again; the ring sign is therefore indispensable. Mr Rasinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6744	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the cardiotechnical law, it is repeatedly criticized that a law is being made for 39 people. - To this end, I would like to say: Those who criticize this have never been in a heart surgery. I was probably the only one here in plenary already co-operating in a heart surgery, and I can tell you that it is an impressive experience when you see how difficult it is: The human heart is cooled, it stops beating, it is bleeding as crazy, and you have to join the heart-lung machine in tenth-second speed and take all the right measures. Everything has to work. Hundreds of steps have to be taken, and many things can be done wrong. In Austria, we are taking 6,000 such interventions a year, and I believe that in the interests of our patients everything cannot be precisely and safely regulated. In my opinion, that is the crucial point in this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mother: You don't need your own law!]] Second point: Mrs Minister, you were surprised at the protests of the doctors to take place tomorrow because you think that there is no real basis for this. - I can tell you: If you were to make an accurate diagnosis, you could find that from the gymnastics who are dissatisfied with their training situation, university doctors who are dissatisfied with the research situation and career opportunities, to the established doctors with Landapotheke et cetera have deep frustration. City councillor Rieder has made the diagnosis that the doctors are relinquishing and the train is in the wrong direction. The Harvard professor and Vienna doctor Köck has said that we have a reformless system. I wouldn't sign that, but: After all, there is a major health reform in Europe. There are similar discussions, and you have also been called upon to participate in the EU Presidency. One important point is that we are in an age trap: People are getting older, medicine is getting more powerful. That is why I think it is fatal, Mrs. Minister, if you are still pouring oil into the fire in this delicate situation and starting a envy debate about the "rich doctors". - Pay me the difference to the numbers you mentioned, then I'll be a slightly richer man! I do not think that the "argument" that the doctors are lazy and so little ordination is necessary. - I call on you to work together to get away from these emotions! Finally, the strength of the Austrian health system is very much dependent on the motivation of all. Put in your ability, Mrs Hostasch, to a large extent, your ability to talk! I think the Ministry of Health needs that especially in this phase. Then, from your point of view, a conflict that may be pointless will become a little less pointless! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6785	Mrs Konrad has also been mentioned. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6803	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already announced that I would like to comment on the Federal Act on the Cardiotechnic Service. From the point of view of the Socialist Group, I welcome this law because it represents a further step towards professionalization in the health field. In my opinion, this professionalization is urgently necessary so that we in Austria can continue to guarantee our high-quality medical services and services not only but also expand them. Through the progressive engineering of medicine, surgery and especially heart surgery, tasks have developed for a number of years now, carried out by a new professional group, the cardiotechnics and cardiologists. This profession, which requires a high level of qualification, has not yet been regulated by law in Austria. Up to now, there has been no defined vocational training in Austria and no special training required for professional training. The 39 cardiologists who are currently working in nine heart centres have been trained at their respective workplaces and have had to work out their special knowledge in their own responsibility. On this point, I would like to address the criticism expressed here that 39 people have their own law: This law is not only about those 39 people who are currently practicing this profession, but also about ensuring the quality of this necessary medical service. This means that the law is more than justified. With the legal regulation of the profession of the cardio technician and the cardio technician and a correspondingly qualified training, Austria - together with Italy - will be exemplary in the EU. So far, there is only legal training in Italy, a three-year higher education programme. In the other EU countries, there are currently no rules for this professional group, but there are probably attempts to go exactly in the direction of the regulations now in force in Austria. The regulated training, which creates uniform, binding standards, is a priority of the law in addition to the formulation of a detailed professional image. At present, cardiologists are admitted from a hospital into a service relationship and, so to speak, are trained. In the new training model provided for in the law, qualified persons are trained in a service relationship with a hospital recognised as a training establishment. Especially in the interest of quality control, the planned establishment of the cardiotechnical advisory board is to be seen. He is a Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Health and is also to act as an Audit Committee. The concern that this will result in additional costs is unfounded, as the members of the Advisory Council will exercise this function voluntarily. In conclusion: From the point of view of my group, I welcome this law not only because it serves the health sector but also because it opens up and makes known a field of work which has so far been largely unknown, as a highly qualified field of work for young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6850	Mrs. Dr. Sonja Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a family spokesperson of our party, I would like to comment on the Greens' request for legalisation of cannabis and the Liberals' request for decriminalisation of cannabis. It is inconceivable for the EIA to have a drug release. We can imagine a decriminalization of drug addicts - these are sick people - but never a release of drugs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] A brief look at the "parade example" of Holland: The EU has been trying for years to re-establish the liberalisation of drug laws. There should be a reduction in LSD and a threefold increase in Ecstasy Trips. - That can't really be the goal! I have been dealing with youth scenes, youth cultures and youth cultures for over 12 years now and have found out two direct approaches to drug use. One is the "life Management". Drugs serve to compensate for reality or, if you want to, the escape from emotional and/or social feelings of deficit and disintegration. The "classical" drug addict consumes according to this function pattern. As relevant scientific studies show, addicts usually practice drug use. They tend to become hard drugs and generally become socially conspicuous. The second access leads through the lifestyle. Simply put, it's about the symbol worlds of the scene: Clothing, language, music, eating habits and the drug fit into a scene. For example, the punk scene includes beer, skater scene cannabis and Technoscene Ecstasy and amphetamine. Drug myths have a long tradition in youth culture-related pop and music cultures. Since the 1960s, youth culture, usually mediated by the music in which drugs are associated, has been and has been associated. The effects of pop music or pop culture have always seen a potential threat to young people: on the one hand, because one feared the guiding effect of those pop and rock stars who had a drug-oriented lifestyle, on the other hand, because a number of rock texts were the subject of drug use and, in so doing, they were supposed to seduce drug use. "Fight the tolerant drug environment", the UN foreign exchange was also called. From three studies - the Grazer, the Hamburger and the Cologne study - we know which drugs are taken at what percentage. 69 percent of the respondents from the Technoscene had experience with cannabis, 49 percent with Ecstasy, 44 percent have already taken amphetamines, 37 percent hallucinogens like LSD, and 31 percent have experience with cocaine. Demands arise at both human and national level. The present "World Competitiveness Yearbook" lists in detail the strengths and weaknesses of the 46 countries studied. Note one reaches Austria in terms of social security, paper recycling ratios and quality of life. So we can afford to have mutual consideration. For example, the national level would be addressed by saying: First: Business is not business when alcohol is out and not asked about age. Secondly, the "no drugs" campaign of our Federal Minister Gehrer, and thirdly, that stable and intact families still provide support and security. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of school doctors, the fourth point is that in 1988, for example, only 200 students visited 200 doctors, but in 1998 only 12,000. The next step would then be international and global cooperation. The goal is a safe Austria and the vision of a drug-free society.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6935	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e6954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal exclusively with the two requests made by the Greens and the Liberals on the legalisation or decriminalization of the consumption of soft drugs. We have only recently dealt with and discussed the addiction law here in the House after long debates, and we can also hold today on to what we have known at that time, namely the motto of "helping instead of punishment". This was and will continue to be the motto of drug policy in our country. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Smolle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can now refer to a survey carried out recently by the Socialist Bundestag Group on "Week Drugs". All the Federal Republican experts took the view that it was not permissible to impoverish cannabis. It was a variable mixture of psychotropic, toxic and in its effect and interaction in part completely unexplored components. The active substance THC - whatever that is; I am not a physician - stays in the body for weeks, which means, among other things, that even occasional consumers are not drug free for a long time. Cannabis mainly harms the central nervous system, the lungs and the immune system. In pregnant women, the fetus is also affected. - That is to say, it is urgent to dissuade from a hot demise. It is not at all said that other drugs which are culturally recognized, such as alcohol or nicotine, are just as dangerous, if not more dangerous or harmful. Only I cannot see, ladies and gentlemen, what progress is to be made if, in addition to hundreds of thousands of alcohol diseases and hundreds of thousands of nicotine addicts, we still accept drug addicts. I cannot see this as progress. If the use of drugs were legalised, as the Greens intend, consumption would undoubtedly rise, because the drug would be available because it would be easier to obtain, even because it could be obtained at every corner. The lighter availability would undoubtedly also lead to a price reduction. The hesitant taster, who is still afraid of it now, would then also resort to it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Prevention would be countercared. What would it make sense for the Ministry of Social Affairs to try to stop young people from smoking in a millions of heavy campaigns under the title "Smoke sucks" - and at the same time to open the door to drug use? From my point of view, this would be a paradox that is not dissolved. That is why we stick to our attitude as we have already taken it. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I should like to take a slightly more differentiated look at the Liberal Forum's request as it is based on mere decriminalization. - Mrs. Sonja Moser, you have spoken in front of me, so I would now like to call to the witness as unwarranted witnesses as the Tyrolean Addiction Council, the Tyrolean Caritas or the Tyrolean Chamber of Physicians, who also have their doubts as to whether this criminalization of wisdom is the last conclusion. It might be possible to think about whether or not this has perhaps been done too early with the culprit of criminal law on young people. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Hofrat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (in the direction of the speaker) Don't listen to him!]] This is the only thing I would like to take very different into account in this debate, very passionate and emotionless. - We also believe, however, that the Addiction Act, as we decided at the time, and that the principles in force at that time are valid today and in the future. There's nothing to shake for us.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7016	Mrs Elisabeth Pittermann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, Mrs. Doctor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7034	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Haidlmayr has requested a legislative novel for the patient's right to the doctor's letter. This is not necessary because the patient's right to the doctor's letter and the insight into the health history has long been established by law. Now on my real topic: We reject the release of cannabis and the delivery of heroin on health certificate from the SPÖ for a sense of responsibility for the youth. Cannabis may be considered to be non-hazardous in some scientific works; other works, on the other hand, prove the opposite. It is unlikely that a psychotropic substance does not form a receptor binding or cause changes. Alcohol and nicotine are harmful to health and release is the wrong way. No alcohol and nicotine dependent will give up his drug, but more people will become dependent. Young people need to learn to process frustration and not to escape into a dream world. This is uncomfortable, but forward-looking. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very good! That's my opinion!]] Returning to the medical effect, the following should be noted: A certain efficacy in selected indication can be imagined, but can only be demonstrated with studies and not with hash smoke. Many accused physicians to experiment easily with medicines on the patient - in this case they even demand it. As much as I know, in an AKH study, the efficacy of tetrahydrocannabinol - by THC - is tested. No politician prevents doctors from applying for studies to investigate the therapy of a specific active substance in defined quantity for selected indications. Since heroin has an aggressive effect, it is not an authorised drug for us; however, because of its strong coughing stimulant, it is sometimes approved for patients with bronchus cancer at the end stage and at TB. However, morphine derivatives are interchangeable to prevent physical and psychological withdrawals. Intravenous heroin leads to rapid flooding of the brain, which is searching for it. Oral opiates - as in the methadone program - slowly flood, have a lower addiction potential, enable more social integration and professional activity and prevent the risk of infection by injection needles. Ladies and gentlemen! The current law with the principle of "help instead of punishment" is good. The opportunist or therapeutic convenience or nihilism demand for the release of cannabis or heroin as a drug for dependents will not be accepted by my group, as it is the heart of youth and social weakness.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7069	There are no further comments on these points. This debate is closed. Nor is there a wish for reporting at the end of the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote; it will be made separately between the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1269 of the supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mrs Haidlmayr has tabled an amendment with regard to Articles I Z 2 and Z 6 and Article III Paragraph 24 para. 2 of the draft law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment tabled by Haidlmayr to be a sign. - This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. - It's accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of this draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give him their approval to give a sign. - This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. - The proposal was adopted by a majority of the third reading. Next, we vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1272 of the supplements. There is a amendment tabled by Mr Pumberger. I shall first of all vote on the parts affected by the amendment tabled by the Pumberger amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Dr. Pumberger has tabled an amendment relating to Article I Sections 8, 9 and 13. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment tabled by Pumberger for a sign on this point. - This is the minority. The application is rejected. It is therefore voted on the relevant parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an important sign. - I note that these parts of the draft law have been adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of this motion, together with its title and receipt, as part of the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an important sign. - I note that these parts were decided by a majority at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also agree with this draft law at third reading give a sign of this. - The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. In this connection, we shall vote on the health committee's request to take note of its report in 1148 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this notice to give an appropriate sign. - This is decided by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1149. In the event of approval, I may request an appropriate sign. - This report has also been taken note of by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1150 of the supplements. I ask for a sign in case of consent. - I note that the report in 1150 of the Supplements takes place by a majority. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1151. In this case too, I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to rise from the seats in the event of approval. - I note the notice by a majority. I accept Amendment No 666/A (E) to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report in 1270 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to this sign. - This is decided by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health to take note of its report in 1271. In the event of approval, I may ask to rise from the seats. - consent to this request shall be by a majority. We have done this part of the agenda. 28. Point Report and request by the Transport Committee on the draft Federal Law, which sets out the rules governing road transport in 1960 and the third. STVO-Novelle is amended (20. StVO-Novelle) (1225 of the supplements) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Thomas Barmüller and comrades on accompanying measures to improve road safety (1221 of the supplements) 30. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 618/A by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 (StVO) (1222 of the Supplements) 31. Point Report by the Transport Committee on motion for a resolution 779/A (E) by Mrs Gabriela Moser and others on the national transport safety programme "Security 2000" (1227 of the supplements) 32. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution 556/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the package of measures to avoid transit duties as a result of delayed installation of electronic ecopoint control (1240 of the Supplements) 33. Point Report and request of the Transport Committee on the draft federal law, which is the subject of the Automobile Act 1967 (20). KFG Novelle) and the 4th. Novelle is amended (1226 of the supplements) 34. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 762/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Kukacka, Rudolf Parnigoni and comrades concerning a federal law with which the driving licence law (BGBl. I No. 120/1997), and on the request 694/A by Mr Peter Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law with which the driving licence law, BGBl. I No. 120/1997, as amended (1224 of the supplements) 35. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 714/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüller and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on driving licence (Führerscheintgesetz - FSG 1997) (1223 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7354	We now come to points 28 to 35 of the agenda. These points have been brought together so that the debate is carried out under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Franz Lafer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have recently discussed transport safety and related measures in four subcommittees and a full committee. It must be said that although the subcommittees held were very informative, it was not possible to discuss the proposals which have been submitted to Parliament today and also to the full committee at the last moment. There are a few things in that - such as the driving licence law, the KFG or also a resolution - which we are absolutely positive about, because these are absolutely necessary corrections and, secondly, because positive measures are also involved in road safety. ==References====External links== For three reasons, we cannot agree to StVO innovation: firstly, because there is no minimum standard for the equipment of bicycles; secondly, because there are no protective devices for the wheelchair drivers - as mentioned in the StVO - and thirdly - that is certainly the most essential point - because no provisions on the addiction are included in driving a vehicle at all. I know that, on the other hand, the accusation will be that such provisions are contained in the motion for a resolution. But that's too far-reaching for us. That is why we have tabled an amendment and asked the President to distribute it. It is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Meischberger, Laiber, Dr. Preisinger, in which it concerns the provisions of § 5. This section is known to everyone in the house. In the individual provisions, apart from alcohol impairment, there is also an impairment by addiction, namely by addiction according to the definition of the addiction law 1951 and - after its entry into force - in accordance with § 2 of the Drugs Act. In addition, this amendment also contains the task of defining in a regulation what method can be used so that addiction can be demonstrated at all. This amendment also includes - as in the provisions of § 5 - that the presentation to the doctor is possible in order to establish the evidence. It will also be § 5 para. 6 - the constitutional provision on addiction use. I think I have explained the amendment here, as the provisions of § 5 are well known, to the extent that it can also be negotiated. Now to this motion for a resolution: Mr Parnigoni, there are eleven points in this which we can give our approval. However, on the first point, I would like to make a critical point on the following point:... "a change in the driving licence law and the driving power law with the aim of more proximity to the citizen, administrative simplification and competition..." - This is understood by my group and I so that you make your own Minister the accusation that in this case he has created laws that are no longer comprehensible and that are no longer legible for both executives and the population. Considering the fact that four laws already have to be observed for driving a vehicle - that is, StVO, power driving law, power driving law and driving licence law - it is no longer surprising that the Austrian people, the Austrian citizens, can no longer understand these laws. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we will not agree to the StVO-novelling. However, we will give our consent to the other regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7434	The request made by Mr Lafer in his key points is properly filed and signed, is under negotiation and is, by virtue of its scope, subject to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be distributed in writing. It will then also be voted on. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7578	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a very serious issue: road safety. This is a subject that has to do with death on the street. It is quite simply the objective of transport safety policy to save lives. We also know that the objective of the Austrian transport safety policy is to ensure that by 2005 600 people die less on Austrian roads per anno. This is not only a matter of personal suffering, but also a question of economic costs. The EU estimates a dead person of ECU 1 million. Converted to 600 dead, this would make up a total of about 8.5 billion schilling annually. This amount does not include the costs for the injured or the damage to property. The European Union has adopted a second action programme on road safety in the face of 45 000 fatalities in the EU and 145 billion ECU in economic costs for accidents. It has chosen three priorities - although under the principle of subsidiarity the national states are to decide on the measures - namely to establish an information system in order to assess the efficiency of the relevant national measures and, in any case, to recommend others to take appropriate measures to prevent or reduce the risks of accidents - i.e. to raise awareness of problems with appropriate directives and campaigns - and to create technical measures in a third priority to reduce accident consequences. This would mean, for example, providing belt and helmet requirements and making vehicles secured with impact protection. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian way is the right one. For example, the decision on the 0.5-promille limit and the control measures have led us to have a chance to save perhaps 200 people this year. This would require not only much less human suffering, but also a corresponding reduction in the use of financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that transport safety policy requires a wealth of individual measures. That is why we have now tabled a motion for a resolution which has already been discussed. It is intended to deal, inter alia, with the liberalisation of driving schools and has the objective of liberalising driving schools for the purpose of ensuring a higher quality in training and a cheaper price. Mr Lammer! That is the first point of the resolution and not the fact that the Minister is not acting close enough. Secondly, it is a question of ensuring that the belting rate increases again. Therefore, a corresponding campaign is requested by the Minister. Thirdly, we are concerned with ensuring that the harmonisation of different speeds is examined for different types of vehicles and that any proposals are made. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to ensure that the appropriate practical test procedure is established and presented to this House, which can demonstrate the abuse of drugs or drugs and their impact on driving behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen! These three novels bring a wealth of changes that my fellow Members will address in detail. I am convinced that Mr Bundesminister, the Social Democrats and our government group are taking the right course with these transport safety considerations. We will therefore give our approval to all these measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7649	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7667	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a very short time, I will take a position on the two requests made by Mr Laiber. I think that this request, which concerns the area of addiction control, is a rather sloppy request. In reality, this is a police empowerment law that offers little opportunity to enforce rule-of-law chewing. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In view of the announcements made by the representative of the liberal staff, I believe that this proposal for a law should not be approved positively today. For if this really becomes a law and the staff representation of the liberals in the framework of the police is true, what small department has announced, that everyone has to put up with 200 000 s, once he has been criticised by a police officer, that is a dangerous request in my opinion! I would therefore be pleased if there were once a statement from this pult that the announcements of the representative of the representative of the staff of the minority service were at least not seen by the National Council of Freedom. So far, I miss such an explanation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] On the application for the 20th birthday. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to Mr Parnigoni that it is only to say that the shortcomings which have unfortunately occurred in the summer of 1997 have now been remedied. So we've got to go after sitting here today and get lost. It contains changes and, at last, a rule on roller-shoeing and in-line skating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] The problem, Mr Parnigoni, is that the cycling regulations have also been changed. Unfortunately, they have become even more complicated than they were before. It would be useful to avoid a little in this area, because the regulations made will in fact not be understood by people and cannot be observed. Therefore, it does not create legal certainty, but only inconsistency. I believe that we should have the courage to refer to the regulations of the motion for a resolution which the government groups have tabled, but which unfortunately only refer to the driving licence law and to the power driving law, but not to the StMOs, also to the StVOs, and to question whether the relevant provisions are still legible and, if so, liveable. We will then come to the conclusion that we can delete or simplify many of the existing provisions. But it's missing in this 20th. StVO-Novelle every sign towards greater road safety, Mr Parnigoni. I therefore allow myself to make a motion for a resolution on the accident spots. This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is true, Mr Parnigoni, that, although you referred to this area in your motion for a resolution, the blatant failure of the fact that the single criteria on which accidents are to be determined cannot be addressed. They know that according to § 96 para. 1 STVO is already legally in a situation where accidents are to be detonated. It is, however, the fact that this does not happen, or is only insufficient, although, absolutely, we could avoid 25 per cent of all traffic fatalities in Austria alone by implementing this measure - I do not want to say: save. It is also a fact that you simply appoint a working group already in existence in the ministry as a commission. It is true, too, that They do not want to define precisely these uniform criteria, so the compensation of the accident centres will not take place and therefore the problem remains. [[Abg. Parnigoni: As you know, the country thing is!]] That's country business. It is interesting, however, that, according to this motion for a resolution tabled by the government groups, it is also necessary to report to the National Council, even though this was a suggestion for the Liberals, on the reduction of the number of accidents. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Minister must be informed of what has been happening for years and days, but has not helped. However, the fact that this is made public and that, in particular, by using new media, it is also made available to local representatives and made visible and visible to other people, so that something can be done on the ground, has been rejected by the government groups, although I believe that such measures would be useful to achieve increased road safety. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! Another simple measure, which has already been discussed several times and on which there are differing opinions in the House across the political groups, has not been addressed, and it has not been covered by your motion for a resolution: I'm talking about the point driver's license. It's true that we're 1st. However, it is true that there has not even been a draft discussion for this House on the basis of which one could talk about the point driver's licence. And it is also true that you are seeking a penalty point scheme, while the Liberals are proposing a different scheme, namely a credit card, to address the self-initiative and personal responsibility to give people the opportunity to respond before something has happened. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We shall also put forward a motion for a resolution. According to the rules that the government groups want, a motor vehicle driver can only get to zero, and whoever is "evil" gets into the minus and then has to do something to compensate for the minus. - We Liberals believe that it would be useful for people who are moving in traffic to be already dealing with the issues of road safety and, for example, by means of driving technology courses or seminars which can be attended in driving schools - if there is a change in the StVOs - to be able to acquire credit points and thus to build up a credit account from the outset, which, if errors occur, will be reduced. While the government groups want to work in the negative field, the Liberals suggest that a model should be considered as in France, which goes into the positive area. Our convincing and brief motion for a resolution is therefore: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is why this motion is so open, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not want to look at the model that the Liberals have already presented and prepared, or even try to put this idea into your mind now almost via a motion for a resolution. We have presented this idea and we would like it to be discussed. But you too should be free to make proposals. That is why we ask you to prepare such a government template so that we can take a big step forward in the interests of road safety and not just a small hustle and bustle that has been presented to us so far by the government groups! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The third motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, concerns liberalisation in the field of driving schools, and I can also read this motion for a resolution quickly: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! What sounds so complicated here is simply and simply the departure of the lease lease, which is currently available in the driving schools. It is the break-up of the possible price agreements arising automatically from the local alliances to the respective resident district headquarters. For they often result in people living close to a district border not being able to attend a driving school beyond the district or federal border, because they are not allowed to take the exam in the other bra, but to return to the residential bra. In reality, this creates a territorial cartel through administrative regulations. This is also what Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima already had on the 2nd of July. He said that this would have to be abolished. So far, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been possible, within the framework of the Transport Subcommittee on Transport Safety, to discuss this issue. This is a failure, which we think is unnecessary; and in order for it to be reversed as soon as possible, a motion for a resolution has been tabled with a deadline of up to 31. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the last point, I would like to address the area of voluntary fire brigades in Austria: The Liberals, too, believe that rules can be found which allow the voluntary fire brigades not necessarily to be driven at any time only with 0.1 promills if there is a stake - although that would be useful. But if there are difficulties in this area due to practical means of implementation, then you can regulate it immediately. It has also been made clear by Mr Schlögl, Federal Minister, that no fire brigade will be put into service and all have to blow into the tube across the bank before they are allowed to proceed to extinguish. It's never been a discussion before. But now it is said that you can only steer firearms with the necessary steering licence and the necessary fire brigade license that is being created is already a crux! According to § 32a, which now introduces a new fire brigade licence into the driving licence law, there are not only certain conditions for this, but also the Federal Minister for Science and Transport has to adopt a separate regulation. And in this regulation he then determines how this driving licence must look, what must be the way in which it will be put off and what proof of practical knowledge and health fitness must be provided. Why all this? - Only because in § 32a para. 6 The driving licence law states that, if you have such a fire brigade licence, you no longer have to be careful, as in the case of driving with a C driving licence or with D driving licence, that you have only 0.1 promille, but also with 0.5 promille. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a huge effort: a new category of driving licences is created, the Federal Minister receives a decree, this licence is issued by the national fire brigades. If the actual driver's license is withdrawn, you also have to issue the firefighter's license. And if you get the other one back, you'll get the fire brigade's license again. With these provisions, ladies and gentlemen, which are to be decided today, it is only possible to achieve what was clear from the outset that the voluntary fire brigades, when they are going to be extinguished, do not have to blow into the tube! - That's what we think of the liberals as superfluous. We believe that with this provision you are creating red tape that is unnecessary. As long as the government groups believe that they can solve traffic safety issues with an § 32a driving licence law and do not seek solutions close to life, for so long, ladies and gentlemen, we have no special hope for road safety in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7825	The three motions for resolutions which have just been put forward, namely those concerning Austrian-wide systematic rehabilitation of accident centres, those concerning the introduction of a driver's licence and, finally, those relating to liberalisation in the field of driving schools, have been properly introduced and are under negotiation. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7846	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the hour ahead, I no longer want to address all the amendments and motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Accepting goes faster!]] On the one hand, we have already been working on this in the committee, on the other hand, this is essentially also contained in the resolution of the coalition which we have tabled and which is still going to vote today. The implementation of this motion for a resolution, which contains a large part of these proposals, will continue to concern us. I would like to comment briefly on the driving licence law because we are not happy with God with this driving license law. As has been shown, this is a controversial act that needs to be repaired after half a year. I have not yet experienced a law from the transport sector, which has been so critically assessed, both by the citizens and drivers concerned and by the authorities implementing it, as regards enforcement deficits, shortcomings and contradictions. Minister! That is why we should have consequences together. I believe that we must take more care in legislation, especially on transport issues. In this driving licence law, we have at least had bad experiences with swift and inexhaustible legislation. Today's decision states that after half a year 22 points of this law have to be modernised to eliminate only the worst of the pans, enforcement deficits and contradictions. Such legislation should not be possible in the future! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Smolle.]] Most of this law was produced too quickly, too quickly, without adequate review, without extensive consultation of experts and without taking into account the impact on citizens. [[Abg. Smolle: You want to do something like this again with the firefighter's license!]] I know it is a whole new law, it is the implementation of an EU directive that has not yet been implemented in this form. It was therefore difficult for all to treat and implement this new matter. But we will refuse to do so in the future, and we will no longer be affected by self-appointed time pressure, whether it comes from the EU because of an implementation date, because a lobby wants to have the partout at that time, or because it is the curatorium for road safety. We will no longer accept this, because we must be sensitive in the transport sector. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Smolle.]] Because this affects the entire population, every driver and thus every citizen! I therefore believe that we must develop more sensitivity and learn from these mistakes. Because with today's innovation, it's not done. Rather, it has already been announced that a wide range of experts will now deal with this law and that a new review will take place in autumn so that a further comprehensive revision can be submitted to Parliament at the end of the year. I would like to have said that on this subject. That's why we're from the ÖVP also against a quick shot at the mobile phone ban for drivers. We call for at least a short period of time for the review so that we do not face such mistakes again. That is why, at the last committee meeting, we also refused to accept such an initiative. In the above review, open questions must be discussed by professionals and car drivers' associations so that an informed submission can then be decided on. Since this measure has been tested in only a few countries in Europe - only in Portugal, Italy and Switzerland, there are clear rules - and there are hardly any practical experience available, this demand for assessment is all the more justified, so that no similar margins appear as in the driving licence law and this measure is ultimately not really practical. For example, questions to be addressed in the review include the question of whether, at present, all admissibility facilities available on the market or only those which have a minimum technical standard and which guarantee less distraction are allowed. Furthermore, we will have to ask ourselves whether at the same time a ban on the use of navigation systems or on displays on car radios is to be done, because these systems usually have screens, and this, of course, also leads to an enormous distraction of the car driver. In dangerous traffic situations, for example in dense urban transport, can there be full telephone calls by means of telephone calls, without the driver having to fear any sanctions, or will the driver be released from the ban if he does not have a telephone in the car and wants to pass a spirit driver's message on the motorway? Ladies and gentlemen! These are some examples of those questions that arise. This is what we want from experts, from the board of trustees and from the associations of drivers to make a clear statement before we decide to adopt a legal regulation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Liberal Party's request for drug abuse in road transport: I believe that this proposal is in principle correct. We of the ÖVP, the first party - and indeed last year at the last revision of the StVO - have made a request to this effect. However, we have for the time being returned our request because of the objections of the Ministry of Justice on the approximation with the Drugs Act. However, we will, of course, continue to deal with this issue, because we believe that drug use and drug use should in principle be defied socially and, moreover, constitute an accident risk when driving and have nothing to do with it. We hope that we will have broad support here in the House for this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7912	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e7930	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is symptomatic that, shortly before midnight, we are dealing with the major problem of road safety. In view of the current assessment - also in the Committee's deliberations - this decision-making is obviously a signal that the issue of road safety has unfortunately been devalued more or less into a night and fog action. Why? - I'd like to explain this. The subcommittee has been working four times, partly for up to four hours. There have been issues that are certainly essential. The most important issues, however, have been dealt with very stepmotherly. This subcommittee did not pursue a goal-oriented approach, has not organized itself in a targeted manner and has not acted in accordance with the primary priorities of road safety at those places where the lever should be placed. In this subcommittee, for example, the problem of drugs has been dealt with for more than three hours. There are, of course, problems relating to drugs and road safety - there is no question. Nevertheless, this problem with ten deaths per year is comparatively negligible compared to the large number of accidents, damage and deaths due to excessive speed. The Transport Subcommittee should have been based on the priority list sent to each participant by the Transport Safety Board. In this list there are transport safety measures, safety reserves and in parentheses - that is very technological - the savings of the dead per year. From this list it is very clear that more intensive traffic monitoring could primarily save lives. - However, in the subcommittee we have not heard much of more intensive traffic monitoring. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] I say: comparatively little! In particular, one issue which would be very important was not at all stressed in the Committee, namely the protection of the so-called weak road users. This item on children, pedestrians and cyclists has been deleted! This point has not only fallen under the table but has been completely negated. In this respect, it would be possible to put in place very substantial measures, but it was not at all discussed. - I should like to say that as a deficit in relation to this subcommittee. Next Point - Tempo limits: Up to 500 deaths a year could be saved here. But that wasn't a topic, that's going to take, speed 100 on the normal road and pace 130 on the highway were not a topic. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why didn't you do anything about the subject?]] I have repeatedly referred to the need for increased speed controls, but this has not been taken into account. In my request for a traffic safety programme, I called for 2000 speed limits. This has not been discussed! I have justified the request in committee, but there was no discussion about it. They have rejected a transport safety programme as such. You are not concerned about programmes with the decision-making objective of adopting concrete, coherent, target-oriented measures! They only produce one flick. For what you are presenting today as a motion for a resolution is no more than a flick! What's going to be a big decision? Rotating warning lights on school buses, Xenonlicht et cetera. - These are peanuts compared to what would be necessary, for example the point driver's license, increased speed limits or monitoring, measures to protect the weak road users! That would be the priority areas! However, you have negated these. What remains is no more than this flicking work. Instead of having nails with heads They made practical pins without lace. And we've spent more than twelve hours doing that! In my opinion, this was partly lost time because there was not enough target-oriented discussion. This agenda will focus on road safety. Perhaps it is just a coincidence co-consistency that now there are advertisements in the daily newspapers that are intended to serve road safety. There are appeals and clues that consideration should be given to the children in particular. - However, the subcommittee did not mention the children. There is no mention of the real issue of concrete implementation. But there are large two-sided ads where you can announce anything else, in the newspaper! No question: Consciousness is important, and advertising contributes to this. But it would be even more important to have a specific set of measures to protect children! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The warning light on the school buses is certainly not intended to save children's lives, prevent accidents and protect a child from a traffic accident every two hours. This is an adversarial matter that does not fulfil the actual task. This item on the agenda focuses on road safety. It is also necessary to deal with the problem of transit or the ban on night driving. One was able to experience an increase in transit problems just last week. Friday and Saturday there was the big burner blockade. But even this great protest action, carried by all the parties in Tyrol and in which representatives of this House were also present by various parties, has so far passed without a trace of this House, although it has been said over and over again with regard to burner problems: The homework is still to be done. It is precisely the homework - the tasks of Austria, in particular the arrangements for restricting transit traffic and reducing the movement of goods from the road - that is not to say, although there are two requests from the Greens dealing with this issue. That is why I would like to raise further demands from the Tyroleans in this context and submit them in a request. These demands have also been supported by Tyrolean politicians, but are not a subject here. I would now like to make these two motions for resolutions. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution refers to the transit burden of the Tyroleans: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very essential request, because although there are low-noise trucks, the number of lorries has increased overall during the night, although over the burner to a lesser extent, because there is an increased night's toll. Nevertheless, it is necessary to take precautions because the number of lärmarm trucks in total has also led to an increase in noise levels. I am looking for positive treatment of these requests, which are nevertheless borne by the whole population. They were presented by the Transit Forum and are supported in Tyrol. This is still out here in Vienna. I am therefore seeking acceptance. This would also be a concrete act to improve road safety, as it has been shown that truck rides in the night lead to more accidents, that accidents often occur between 0 o'clock and 5 o'clock in the early days, and that these accidents are mainly due to the fact that the drivers have not been pulled out and sat too long behind the Volant. Please take road safety seriously by accepting these applications! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8030	Madam President, you have asked for an assignment to the Committee on Transport in both requests. Is this serious, or do you want to vote on it now? [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: No, I'll delete this addition!]] - So you want a vote on this? Then I ask you to delete this note. Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8059	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Road safety has a lot to do with discipline, self-reliance, consideration and self-control. In my opinion, monitoring and control alone cannot be the core, but I think that the willingness to change in this context must be in the head of the road users. Advertising can also be an appropriate step towards making changes. Ladies and gentlemen! Legal framework conditions are necessary in order to provide guidance on the one hand in road transport and on the other hand to provide protection provisions and protection for the weaker road users, namely pedestrians, cyclists, children, the disabled and also for the older generation. What is the objective of increased road safety in Austria? - This is the reduction in the number of accidents and, above all, the reduction in the number of deaths of accidents, because Austria is indeed a leader in terms of the number of deaths of accidents. I would like to highlight some of the points raised in this amendment. On the one hand, no charges and stamp marks are charged for the extension of the driving licence. In my opinion, this expresses a certain civility. Skaters and rollershoeers are now allowed to ride on cycle paths and so on, and I mean that they meet the leisure needs of people, especially young people. However, I believe that skaters and scooters must comply with certain traffic rules in order to prevent accidents in these areas. It seems important to me in this respect to me that the level of punishment is increased in the event of failure to comply with the helmet requirement of motorcyclists, because this is where the discipline has declined. A key point is also the relief for disabled persons, who are constantly heavily disabled persons, who can also be transported with other vehicles in the future, while at the same time taking advantage of the advantages in the maintenance and parking ban. A few more sentences to the fire brigade's license, ladies and gentlemen! Those officials who have to deal with the execution have meant that, if no change occurs, there is a certain degree of legal uncertainty. That is why I am very glad that the demands of the fire brigades are taken into account in the law. This is also in line with the interests of the voluntary fire brigades, for whose protection and their daily willingness to use we must be truly grateful. A result of the Subcommittee was a motion for a resolution with further measures to improve road safety. These are being prepared, and some of the points that I think are essential in this respect are the improvement of the belting ratio by the "Gu(r)te Fahrung" action, the preparation of guidelines for improving road safety in schools, kindergartens and senior homes and better marking of school buses. Training guidelines for school bus drivers also seem to me to be essential.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8090	Ladies and gentlemen, the clock seems to have a defect. That is why I tell you verbally that you have spoken for 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8105	Thank you. - Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It is important for road safety to be regulated in terms of road transport. The measures adopted with this amendment are absolutely necessary and not as a shock. They serve to increase safety and to protect disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8133	I call Mr Meischberger. I will tell you when the 3 minute speaking time will expire. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8151	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As a result of the advanced period, I would like to deal exclusively with the novel to the STVO. We will reject these liberals, especially because the text of the law has been drawn up in many areas in a way that we believe will very soon give rise to innovation. This refers, for example, to the area in which the legalisation of the front-legging length of motorcycles at standing columns is concerned. We all know that this is a matter that stirs up a lot of people in road transport. The text in which this legalization takes place is very sluggishly formulated. It means that there must be enough space to allow for the length of the bilge. As a result of various reactions - including from the driver sector - there will certainly be difficulties. All these questions are not very well solved, nor the permission to inline skate on walking and cycling paths. We know that due to the different modes of movement, the different speeds between cyclists and skaters and the narrow spaces on the walking and cycling routes, problems are probably also precisely preprogrammed which will lead to further innovation. As far as bicycle equipment is concerned, we have also called for the establishment of clear minimum standards. However, there has only been a regulatory authority vis-à-vis the Minister for Transport, and that is not enough for us. All in all, I must say, in our view these areas have not been adequately regulated. The main reason for our rejection of these StVO novels is that we are working towards the actual goal. Four sub-committees and a full committee have been set up with the main objective of moving forward significantly in the area of drug abuse in the event of vehicle start-up, or of proposing that drug abuse be prevented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this respect, however, nothing has happened at all, even if Mr Kukacka is now starting a paternity dispute about who first made a corresponding request. We are very well aware of the fact that, in response to a request for freedom of movement, last year, he formulated an amendment to this subject in the Committee's report entitled "Special safeguard measures against alcohol or addiction" : Furthermore, the condition of a person at an alcoholic strength of 0,3 grams per litre or 0,3 per milliliter or above or at an alcohol content of the air of 0.15 milligrams per litre or more, in conjunction with the evidence of addiction, is considered to be detrimental.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8188	3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8204	Thanks a lot. - That's less than we demand. But from our point of view, this would be a very important, decisive step in the right direction. We made it easy for Mr Kukacka: We have fixed his own amendment and prepared it under the title: May. Kukacka and colleagues demand... We would immediately give him the support he has now requested. We want to take him at the word. I'm going to put this amendment to him on his pult. Perhaps he appears again in the hall, then he can submit the application. We will be happy to give him the approval and thus provide the necessary majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8240	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8258	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, you have criticised the Subcommittee in your contribution to the debate. I do not think this is understandable because I believe that there was a great opportunity in the subcommittee to discuss with the relevant experts in terms of road safety and also with the appropriate experts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal briefly with the driving licence law. ==References== The new driving licence law is in force on November 1997, and it has already been rightly pointed out that there are problems in the implementation of this new law. The proposed amendment represents a first step of an extensive amendment to the driving licence law. According to current legal situation, Class C steering licence can only be granted for five years - and 60. Life-year in only for two years - to be granted. An extension of the steering power may only be made upon presentation of a medical opinion. We now know that the transitional period set at that time was too short. I therefore welcome the fact that in this novel for the owner of the steering licence of the vehicle class C, the 45. years of life, the transitional period for medical examination up to 31. ==References====External links== In this context, it is also worth mentioning that the documents required to obtain this medical opinion and the issue of the new driver's licence are exempt from the administrative charge and the stamp fee in the context of an extension of Class C steering licence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the reduction of the promill limit to 0.5, a corresponding limit of 0.1 permill was set for truck drivers in the driving licence law. This, as we already know, has resulted in the application of this regulation to members of the voluntary firearms in operation. This has a problematic effect in that, in practice, this provision is equivalent to a permanent and total ban on alcohol for firemen in private life. With this novel, it is now possible to issue under certain conditions members of the Voluntary Fire Department a separate fire brigade licence, which regulates the problem. Which are the cornerstones of this fire brigade card? - I'd like to mention four points here. First, the 0.5-promille limit applies. Secondly, the medical advice for Class C handlebars can be drawn up as part of the medical examinations of firearms. Thirdly, members of the voluntary fire brigade with a Class B steering licence should be allowed to obtain the fire brigade ID, which is entitled to drive Class C firearms. Fourthly, however, a redefinition of the fire brigade ID with a Class C driving licence is not possible without testing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like briefly to draw attention to the resolution of the Committee on Transport of the 9th century. ==References====External links== The main concern is that the Federal Minister for Science and Transport is requested to amend the National Council's driving licence and driving law with the aim of increasing the proximity of citizens, administrative simplification and competition - especially in driving schools, post-schooling and transport psychological studies - until 31. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This novel is a real step for the future. We will be happy to give this novelle our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8305	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. I'll give you an appropriate bell sign. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8323	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about road safety and we are devoting this point to a broad discussion, we must also talk about what has been wrong in previous road traffic regulations. I believe that there are two points to be mentioned in this respect. I would like to take this out and make an amendment to it. The first point is the inconsistency of "blue light tax", which in principle has led to a deficit in execution in the field of executives. If you ask exactly today, executive officials in senior functions as well as simple executive officials tell you that the effort is greater than the profit. In the end, disputes and disputes remain over who pays this tax, and it remains legal uncertainty, because in many cases the "blue light tax" is prohibitive. For example, when it comes to finding harmful claims for traffic accidents without damage to people, which are critical, one often avoids calling the executive because one prefers to have it a little cheaper. I believe that, in critical cases, the executive should be brought up without immediately disposing. In my opinion, that would be a correct approach. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second point must also be made in the area of enforcement deficits. This is about increasing the target binding key. Ladies and gentlemen! We must distinguish between real road safety - and their completion - as well as a security of traffic. To build out all over the country of Schikanen, to set up artificial 30-hour-kilometre restrictions and then to wait with the radar gun until one comes in on it - that is no traffic safety, but pure shock! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The point is that the Minister of Transport, together with his colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, is to carry out a monetary policy, but transport safety is not. I believe that the share of revenue must be increased from 20 per cent to 40 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make the following brief request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this proposal can contribute, among other things, to increasing road safety in fact and not just verbally, not just praying it, but actually implementing it. That is why I am seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8409	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8428	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It would be tempting to address various debates now. But as soon as the time is available to all of us, that will certainly not be possible. I am only surprised that Mr Kukacka - who is not in the hall now - criticises his own decisions. He was present at all the meetings of the Transport Committee, has always worked together, but now he is dissociating himself from turning to a new topic immediately. You'll see how it's going to be. On the comments of Mr Firlinger on the blue light tax: This has had nothing else to do with the immediate calling of police or Gendarmerie for any marginal offense. These then rushed to the site of operation, although in the event of damage to property and the like in fact there were no greater amounts. In the event of personal injury, it is anyway another matter. If one thinks that radar controls of speed are only pure shocks and money acquisition actions, then I contradict that in so far as I say: [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Multiple!]] Each of us is road users and knows exactly how to behave. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You have to listen to me!]] He also knows exactly how many do not behave properly in road traffic as far as speed is concerned, and what terrible accidents happen again and again. If we have arrived and say that we want to reduce the number of dead on our roads, then the measurement in this sector is certainly an instrument to improve this. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Also today, the fire brigade license has been discussed several times. I think it is a certain step forward that this group of people, who are always there for all of us, should be given an invaluable service to the community and that society should be discharged in this way of tasks which would otherwise be transferred to the State and its citizens, at least in one form and help them to carry out their tasks. A fireman should at dinner just as once a glasserl Drinking beer without - especially in a small place - having to fear being called to a stake and having to carry out his service. The Federal Ministry of Science and Transport's decree - by the Federal Minister - on the conditions, the exhibition and the training by the Fire Department is what I think is right. I believe that it is necessary to make very precise determinations on how to proceed in this matter in order not to be unfair to other road users. In this sense, I think that we all have to work together on the requirements of road transport, in particular, to make road transport safer.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8475	The next speaker is Mr Koller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8494	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Two amendments to the last revision of the driving licence law have made the volunteer fire brigades particularly. First: The steering licence for Class C will only be for five years - and from 60. Only two years of life - granted. A medical opinion is required for each extension. Secondly, In the course of the introduction of the more stringent Promille borders, a particularly strict alcohol limit of 0.1 Promille, i.e. a total ban on alcohol, was also included in the driving licence law for truck drivers. Both measures are intended to increase road safety. However, the high responsibility of professional drivers should also be taken into account. For the members of the volunteer fire brigades, who carry out their service on a voluntary basis in the interests of the general public and form the backbone of fire and disaster protection, this change of law in many cases no longer gives the willingness to use. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why this driving license law was a Husch-Fuch-law. The amendment initiative is based on freedom of movement. Last Sunday, I spoke with the Styrian fire brigade Georg Ferstl. He told me that the fire brigades are satisfied with the introduction of a fire brigade licence, the disappearance of the investigations and the limit of the alcohol of 0.5 promille for steering of Class C vehicles. That is why we, too, agree with this proposal for a law. Men and women - including those in the fire brigades - thank you very much for their voluntary free service for the benefit of our homeland and their people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8531	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. I say at the same time that the amendment tabled by Mr Laber, Mr Magistrate. Firlinger and comrades on improving traffic monitoring have been properly submitted, signed and under negotiation. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8555	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller felt that it would not have been necessary to make a special arrangement for fire brigades because firemen are still not controlled. However, it is in the Committee's report itself that: There is a legal opinion that a breach of this provision will most likely remain free of criminal penalties in the administrative criminal proceedings. However, the rule of law certainly does not accept such a solution. Above all, people who voluntarily declare themselves willing to provide fire service to the general public are unreasonable to take such a legal risk. The fire brigades have also called on us to create clear legal conditions and thus enable fire brigade in voluntary use - in the rural regions a fire brigade is only possible on a voluntary basis - legal security. I think we've created this legal security with the fire brigade license. Fire-retardant vehicles are special vehicles - regardless of whether they are a tanker or a armored vehicle - and it is necessary to have a separate training. But also with the B-Führerschein plus fire-fed driver's license we caught two flies at one stroke, because it is no longer necessary for the B-Führerschein plus fire-fed driver's license every five years. Of course, the condition is that the person concerned is in possession of a fire brigade passport, member of a volunteer fire brigade and at least 18 years old, that he has practical knowledge and that there is also health fitness. These facts are controlled by the national fire brigade commanders. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: The drinking strength is not checked!]] And the light will also be issued by the national fire brigade commander. Mr Barmüller! I was at a fire brigade last weekend and I also talked to the commander of the country about it and I can tell you: The fire brigade is very pleased with this solution. You are satisfied and grateful to the legislator for being able to get through to such a solution! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced times, I would just like to mention one point that we have not yet been able to regulate in the driving licence law, but which is increasingly becoming a problem: In the rural regions, farmers are hardly prepared to transport farmed and farmed animals, for example, to auctions. As a result, the farmers are increasingly buying passenger cars because they cannot travel far distances with tractors and so long journey times are not reasonable. There are problems in this area, because the auction sites are then discarded, because there is usually no e-leading certificate and usually exceeds the maximum permissible weight. We should find a solution to this problem, namely that either simplified access to the E-Führerschein is possible, if the corresponding driving practice is available, or that certain derogations are created. We will still have to think about it in the near future!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8596	The next speaker is Mr Hums. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, particularly in the transport sector, it is necessary to also raise safety by the fact that awareness is constantly being heightened and the information on new arrangements actually comes to the recipients. Federal Minister! That is why I would like to ask you to do everything you can to ensure that the relevant information actually takes place. This also applies to those newly included road users, who have already been in practice, but who have now been incorporated into the law, namely the scooter drivers. This is a necessary and practical change; however, some pedestrians, especially older, see this change with mixed feelings. The standard states that scooters have to behave in such a way that other road users are neither threatened nor hindered, and that they have to adjust their speed to hikes to pedestrians. - It will not be easy to carry out the appropriate information, but I think it is necessary, because that is also part of road safety. Mr Moser, on transit: Austria has certainly done important things with the transit agreement with Switzerland at the time. The reduction of pollutant by more than 60 percent is to be described as a success. But You're right that this can't be the end station. The Federal Minister has made a strong effort to make substantial improvements in the EU, and this includes road pricing based on driving performance. However, this also includes the international redesign of the railways, also from the infrastructure sector, in such a way that their offer to the loading economy not only includes the transport station - station, but also the transport from the plant hall to the workshop and to the sales shelf. For this, Mr Federal Minister, the relevant infrastructure must be created internationally! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8645	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To talk about traffic safety about "spiritual hours" may not be pleasant, but at this time very many accidents occur. And every accident death is too much. However, those measures that have recently been put in place have had a practical effect. I have the latest number here: ==References== ==References== In June 1998, 358 people died on Austria's roads. That's, of course, about 358 people too many. Nevertheless, it is a success, because in the same period of the previous year there were 466 dead, i.e. 108 dead people more. - I hope that this trend will continue or continue over the course of this year. However, I believe that controls and penalties alone are not enough. I would therefore like to underline what one of my previous speakers, Mrs Binder, said: It must also play a part in the human brains so that this blood duty can be reduced. That is why I do not want to represent these promotions of the Ministry of Transport as negative as they have happened here today. It takes a broad public to increase road safety! I would like to add one point, Mr Federal Minister, which is also included in the motion for a resolution, namely the call for you to become active in relation to the Xenon Light. You know that this blue, very glaring Xenon light is perceived by most road users as very unpleasant and dazzling. Especially for older people, for weaker road users, such as cyclists and moped drivers, this is very unpleasant, especially in the case of rainy roads, and can lead to further accidents. It turns out that this light, which is considered by the car industry to be an increase in safety, will become a glare for many other road users. There are a number of ophthalmologists who confirm this. The Ministry of Transport has also received many complaints from car clubs and judicial experts. I therefore believe, Minister of State, that it is very important that you forward these reports and opinions, including the conclusions drawn from them, to the National Council. I believe that the better view for a few drivers of large limousines must not go at the expense of the vast majority of road users!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8696	The next speaker is Mr Edler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8715	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Three more comments. First: I believe that we have had very good discussions on the Subcommittee on Transport. We had the opportunity to consult with competent experts really also on future measures for greater road safety. It was important in these discussions that the position was that legislative measures alone are certainly good, but sometimes not enough. In addition, for example, education in schools - which has already been said repeatedly - is absolutely necessary. In this context, I would like to mention that the executive not only fulfils a very important task in the field of control, but also in its information work on road safety. - Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My second comment concerns vehicle safety, in particular the safety of vehicles from the East: We have received reports over the last few months that there has been a strong increase in road safety. In 1997, some 1,200 lorries were stopped from the east, and half of them were no longer allowed to continue because the vehicles were not suitable. There is a real need for action in this area, and for this the executive must also be provided with the technical requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! Transport safety measures require a permanent discussion, and we will certainly hold them together in order to avoid accidents in order to avoid the dead and thus to avoid suffering within the family. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e8754	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur's final comments are not wanted. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1225 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Meischberger and comrades submitted an amendment. Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades have also tabled an additional request. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by the amendments or supplementary proposals, and finally on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of the Regions. The Lager and Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new points 2a and 56a. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of these additional proposals, Mr Lauter, for a sign. - This is the minority. The applications are rejected. Deputies Ing. Meischberger and comrades have an amendment concerning species. I paragraphs 4 to 8. Here again, in the event of approval, I may request an appropriate sign. - The application does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. I shall therefore be voting on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. - I note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Here again, in the event of approval, I may request a positive sign. - I note that this vote has resulted in a majority, a two-thirds majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval at third reading give a sign. - The proposal has been adopted at third reading with the necessary two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Barmüller and Mr Comrades on Austria's systematic rehabilitation of accident spots. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Barmüller, for a sign. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Magnette. Barmüller, on the introduction of a credit card. I should also like to ask you, in case of consent, to rise from the seats. - The application did not find a majority and is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on a motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller on steps of liberalisation in the field of driving schools. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1221 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this readmission of the Committee's report to give a sign in this regard. - The Committee's report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1222 of the supplements. In the event of consent, I asked for a sign on this matter. - This request was accepted by a large majority. We are now voting on the request of the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1227 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. - The request for information was decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1240 of the supplements. I would ask for a sign of this in the case of approval. - I'll find out. The request for information shall be decided by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser on the bundle of measures against the increasing transit through Austria. In the event of an agreement on this motion for a resolution, I would ask Dr Moser for a sign. - The application did not find the majority. He's rejected. We shall also vote on Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser's motion for a resolution on a general ban on night-time driving on all alpine transit routes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign of this. - This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1226 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, in 1226, give their approval to this draft law for a sign on this subject. - This draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. - The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1224 of the supplements. No amendments have been tabled. I shall therefore be put to the vote at once. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign in this regard. - The draft law in 1224 of the Supplements has been adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading give a sign on this point. - I note that the motion for a resolution at third reading has been decided by a majority. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1224. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are giving their approval to this resolution for a sign. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a majority. (E 126.) Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1223 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion from the Committee on Transport to give a sign. - I note that the request for notification of this report has been accepted by a majority. We have thus dealt with these points on the agenda. 36. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (1079 of Supplements): Federal Law on the opening of access to the market of groundhandling services at airports (airport groundhandling law - FBG) (1239 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9032	We're now going to 36. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. A word by Mr Firlinger, on the other hand, is already available. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9057	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "From monopoly to duopol" could be the subtitle of the negotiation airport groundhandling law. Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, EU-harmonisation and EU-Liberisation require clarification of the conditions at Austrian airports. In this context, Vienna Airport is in particular in the foreground, which is known to be one of the four most expensive airports in Europe. So far, this has only played a subordinate role because the extremely high cost of disposal could somehow be accommodated thanks to low fuel prices and the de-fuelling of fuels. In the long term, however, the still high costs will create a problem because the location of Vienna is of course in competition with other locations around Vienna. The pressure to save is present, so this necessary liberalisation has taken place in itself. In detail, however, there are, of course, different opinions on this. If I welcome this step in principle, I would like to say two things about the airport groundhandling law, which is very critical and which seems to me to be an obstacle. In my opinion, this is not a real liberalisation, it is a sham liberalisation, in the form of a second one instead of a single supplier of handling services. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opinion that there is no need for any restrictions on admission in respect of the number. This could be regulated differently in the market. I believe that a very clear disclosure of calculations would be necessary, because then a provider will consider whether he is offering or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Second point: the question of the liability framework: There is a difference whether you are acting as an independent service provider either only in advance or only in charge of the catering area or are doing only luggage handling. As it is stated in the law that a liability framework of up to 600 million schillings is required without further clarification, Mr Lukesch, I think it is prophetic. And this confirms my thesis that this is a sham liberalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! There would be much to say about this, but unfortunately time has already been very advanced. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If you make a reasonable proposal, it will not be lacking in our agreement. However, we will certainly not give our consent to a law that deserves the title of "eye-eating"!
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9103	The next speaker is Mr Edler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9121	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Airport ground handling law: An adaptation is made to Council Directive 1996/1997 (EC) of 15 December 1997 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. October Ladies and gentlemen! Taking account of the needs, this liberalisation is being implemented in stages. To the position of the liberals. Mr Firlinger, you have also formulated what you have represented in the Committee on Transport. I would like to say to you: We need to know what we want: Do we want legal measures to be adopted, or do we want an opening without protective measures and a release of hundreds of colleagues? - We Socialists don't want the latter! We want a careful approach. We are very interested that competition is allowed, but not in the way you imagine it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Briefly the cornerstones: It is taxatative in the law which groundhandling services should be liberalised. There is a limit on the number of suppliers, but also a restriction on self-handlers. The safeguarding of the competition is given, I have already mentioned that. With regard to the call for tenders, independent service providers are to get to the train. I hope that through the User Committee, in which all users have their representation, there is the possibility of requesting this independence. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we must also take into account safety requirements in a comprehensive way. There must be special observations in the handling of flights, which must also be taken into account. I believe that this is a prerequisite for our airports, especially the Vienna-Swechat airport, to have good opportunities for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9168	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9186	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker has said that there should be a careful approach, I agree with him. It is true, however, that you do not go ahead, but go back. This is reflected in the Committee's report, which has been adopted by you. In this you say: "Third-handling comes for airports that have the limit value of the Z. 1 do not exceed, not at all in consideration." This means that less than 2 million passengers and less than 50 000 annual freight tons do not have third-party handling at all. However, this has been possible so far. Now there is the implementation of a directive of the European Union which aims to increase competition. And what do you do about it? - they make arrangements according to which there is from the outset less competition than there has already been in certain areas. It's not a advance, it's going back! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the following should also be noted: The provision in Section 5 of which concerns the central infrastructure would have stated, according to the government template, that the operation of these facilities should be transferred to a third party if the operating security of the airport guarantees this. However, in the Committee you have amended this to allow it to be transferred. - While one was brave in the government template and said: If there is no danger of operational safety, this must be given to third parties, it has been amended by the Committee in the form that this can be awarded to third parties. Fact: This is a means of printing to private entrepreneurs, and it is less than what would really be necessary for competition. On the other hand, the government parties and the Austrian Federal Government, soon chairpersons within the framework of the European Union, were not exactly nice, because this directive, which has already become the 1. January 1998 should have been implemented, has not been implemented in time! But They solved the "elegant": They simply establish that this retroactively occurs from 1. January 1998. - Almost beyond that is over, but this does not apply to the government fractions. If you miss a deadline, it's usually over, but with us it's different: One solves the "elegant" and now puts it back into effect. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that this implementation no longer means competition, but that one has fallen behind what exists today. The Liberals believe that this is not the case and that it should not be used in this House, that the failure of the Federal Government to do so is simply to put rules in place retroactively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9244	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9263	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Some time after midnight I will not succeed in gaining your attention to the airport ground handling law. That is why I am just saying a few words about it. Of course, this law provides for the opening of third party groundhandling services. This brings more competition, and competition makes it stronger - and not weaker. Therefore, the ÖVP is for this opening and for this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say the following to colleagues Firlinger and our colleague from the Liberal Forum: A comparison of the implementation of the EU directive here in Austria, for example, with the implementation in Germany, shows that this opening is done by our actions much more liberal and unbureaucratically than in that country. There the holy bureaucrat was struck, but we had a narrow law with a few paragraphs and a short annex. In this case too, we are once again better than our German neighbours. Of course, there are some problems. Mr Barmüller, you are right: The law has been exonerated with retroactive entry into force. That's not pleasant for me either. I only agreed to this retroactive effect because otherwise there would have been the risk that a legal vacuum for certain services between 1st and 1st would have occurred. This year, and the decision-making here in the House and the publication of this law, would have led to a great uncertainty. Federal Minister! In view of this, I can say: The law is late, but not too late! The law also contains, I would like to say, and I will come back to you once again in several places, the indication that private service providers who want to take over certain handling services have to comply with Austrian labour and social legislation. I would like to address Mr Vergebnitsch and Mr Nürnberger in particular. In this case, we have a lex specialis which expresses in several places that Austrian labour and social legislation must be respected. I say for the ÖVP: This is a matter of course! Any entrepreneur wishing to work in Austria must comply with labour and social legislation. This does not need to be repeated in a special law. For there is a danger, Mr President, that someone might come up with the idea of saying: In other sectoral laws in which this does not correspond, it does not apply. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's crazy!]] So I think that's double-folded and a little too much of the good, but be it d'rum. In particular, they wanted to make it clear to foreign providers that they are bound by Austrian provisions. Mr. Barmüller! Another word to you: You said that this law would go behind the Austrian possibilities without this EU directive. That's where you're wrong: The explanations in the amendment to § 15 - I would also like to maintain this clearly and in the sense of an authentic interpretation - refer, of course, to third-party processings intended for the purposes of the EU Directive. That is to say, the existing regulations - in particular § 14 ZFBO - remain in force, so that airports of course have the opportunity to continue to entrust airlines with certain tasks of handling services, as was previously usual, for example in passenger handling. This should be said for reasons of correctness if you suspect the reduction in the Committee's remarks that there should be no longer any possibility of commissioning third parties within the meaning of self-handling. In fact, this form of third party settlement is not affected by this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9303	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9322	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This airport ground handling law is for us to reject for a single reason, but it is trify and essential: The law enters into force retroactively, and I think that is very worrying.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9356	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9375	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Air transport has developed above average over the last few years. Since 1970, the number of passengers landing or flying in Austria has doubled by about ten years. This growth rate will accelerate even more in the future according to the forecasts. An airport can be an essential location factor for a successful economic region. If the offer is attractive for business travel, the links and the economic environment are right, an airport will become an important argument for the establishment of new companies. The economy of European airports is, however, very different. The main sources of revenue of the airports are about one third of the land service, landing fees and duty-free areas. But these areas will be subject to significant changes in the next few years. The government template for the debate will implement an EU directive that will liberalise access to the groundhandling services market. These services include, in particular, passenger and luggage handling, aircraft movements on the front and freight and mail handling. They are currently largely concerned by the airport companies and in rare cases by the airlines. Competition is heavily restricted at most European airports, and airport prices are often overly high. The liberalisation of market access is intended to reduce the operating costs of air carriers while increasing the quality level for users. Taking into account the needs of this sector, liberalisation must be carried out in a time-limited manner. The need for general and operational security at airports and the limited capacity and existing land handling areas at an airport should be taken into account by various measures. In order to ensure a safe and smooth airport operation, the management and operation of the central infrastructure facilities should be fully reserved for airport operations. However, the central management of these facilities must not lead to a barrier to their use. In the interests of effective competition, users should, of course, be allowed equal access to these facilities. High house! In addition to the forthcoming changes in the financing structure of airports and airlines, an amendment will be made to the situation of the air economy, which is unique in a competitive economy, such as the non-taxation of the aircraft fuel. At the same time, the growing external costs caused by air transport require that changes in this area be made to the extent that external costs are charged in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore seeking your approval of this bill, which I believe is in the sense of the latter objectives.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9418	I call Mr Wallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9436	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The background to this draft law has been explained in detail. It should nevertheless be noted that there should be a reduction in too high airport charges. It should also be noted that there should be a socially just solution for the approximately 2,200 employees at the airport in Vienna. In particular, it should be noted that individual contractual solutions are to be found for workers and that jobs are to be preserved as much as possible. I would also like to say that the law, in order to achieve a socially gentle return, provides for time-limits for adjustment. In the light of the Committee's statement, I would like to point out that the possibility given by the Civil Aviation Regulations that airports will continue to operate at individual handling services of third parties, such as airlines, will not change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9464	There is no further statement on this point. This debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1239 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign in this regard. - I note that the draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. - The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 37. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 761/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Helmut Kukacka and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Telecommunication Act (1188 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9513	We'll get to 37. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Meischberger. His group will be available for another 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9537	Mr President. Minister! High house! The liberals will not agree to the request to amend the Telecommunications Act. This is something I would like to see here without compromising because there is no longer much time available. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The main criticism point on our part is the different allocation of the different frequencies. The current range of frequencies in the 1 800 megahertz band has its origin. According to my memory, virtually any licensing has been granted under a different legal requirement. Actually, the third mobile license operator, Connect Austria - it wants to go into operation in July - would have had an exclusive right in the 1 800 area. This exclusive right, however, is broken by the rights of mobilkom and max.mobil, which in turn - if they can demonstrate the necessary need - could also be granted frequency ranges from the 1 800 megahertz band before the end of the three-year period. A very different problem from this area arises in the population in relation to the emerging channel mast forest. This channel mast forest is mainly due to the fact that several mobile license operators each have to build their own network. This is a two-point criticism in the population. The one point is local and landscape negotiation, and the second is the risk of health damage to afarmers. There are no opinions or tangible evidence from this area, but it is still a problem that there is no legal response at all for the population to do something in this area. We would therefore like to make a request which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] It would be easy for you to fall into this...
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9596	Deputies! Your speaking time has already expired. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Ing. Meschberger.]] I am trying to read a motion for a resolution in the future in such a way that this is still done within the speaking time. They have crossed the speaking time and therefore no longer have the floor. The motion for a resolution you have just read has been sufficiently supported and submitted in accordance with business rules and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9642	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Four comments on this amendment. On the one hand, it must be noted that it is designed in such a way that we can use the remaining frequencies optimally and achieve appropriate use. Secondly, there will be more competition, namely that there will be a fourth nationwide provider with a mobile license and thus a second provider in the 1 800 frequency range. We hope that this will bring an appropriate customer benefit by providing an improved offer at cheaper prices for customers. Third comment: Investments in this area will ensure a large number of gameover effects in different other sectors of the economy and thus create and secure jobs in the field of high technology. Fourth comment: Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what Mr Meischberger said, legal certainty will be created, and no guaranteed rights to existing operators will be broken. We therefore agree to this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9675	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. You have 11 minutes of speaking time available. - Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9694	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Parnigoni, you have raised four points, I make three points. The Liberals' motion for a resolution: There's no unnecessary mast expansion, because that'll cost money anyway. A common network planning is simple and simply not possible. There is just an overlap of about 10 percent. Therefore, this request will not be accepted on our part. He's going beyond reality too far. Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the para. 3a in § 125 is, in fact, an attempt to make an additional allowance for the budget. I had to be very surprised to note that, after auctioning frequencies and concessions so far, it was said that this was a "fine good" - it now shows that there are still excess reserves: 42 megahertz are still available. Third point: Mr Parnigoni! Legal certainty in this area is beautiful and good, but I would be glad if it were not to happen again and again - as is now the case with the Telecommunications Act - that nine months after the decision has been taken, the next changes must be made again. It's not legal certainty! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9730	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9748	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In contrast to the statements made by the opposition, this novel is an important step towards modernising the Austrian Telekom structure. This regulation will, first of all, provide the economic framework for the existing licensees - that is, A1, max.mobil. and Connect - not changed. Secondly, it will prevent the development of a dominant position for existing suppliers. Thirdly, further competition will be ensured on the market. Fourthly, the state will receive a further budget from the auction of the fourth mobile license. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm already at the end of this by saying: This is another important step towards the modern development of the Austrian telecommunications situation.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9779	The next item is Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, you still have 10 minutes of speaking time available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9807	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! They delete a sentence in a law and strip millions. That is also the meaning and purpose of my previous speakers. It's about millions, but I think it's more. This amendment of the Telecommunications Act should be made more in principle and not only should additional providers be provided for in the 1 800 megahertz frequency, but should primarily create legal certainty for the people living in the environment of broadcasting facilities. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: But that's not true at all!]] What you've missed up to now is the party position when setting up masts. I therefore support the request of the liberals, and we will vote in favour of him. For it is not only about the landscape, but above all about the concerns of the locals and residents, who cannot yet be presented in legal form. The Telecommunications Act excludes the issue of health concerns in the establishment of masts at all. Minister! On the other hand - in the Committee you have answered this my question - you refer to the rules of construction: In the construction order, the trailers are very likely to have a party position. But after the construction order, you can't articulate any health concerns. So as an arrant, you are practically sent between blacksmith and blacksmith to and fro, you run into the circle and really lose any confidence in any democratic regulation. If, on the one hand, the right is denied and if, on the other hand, you do not address the problem at all, you cannot claim a right in this direction, then I believe that this is unworthy of a rule of law! Cover with your auction operation You have this discrepancy and this error in the Telecommunications Act, which should finally be eliminated. This shows you throughout Austria to the 80 citizens' initiatives, which are constantly running against their demise storm: against the fact that they cannot exercise their rights, and against the fact that they ask for a Seibersdorf study in which technicians - technicians, please! - expressed concern about health. This is the basis for the fact that the Telecommunications Act does not provide any objections to health concerns in the establishment of transmission masts. However, there are now other scientific documents and other opinions. There are even major concerns of all environmental lawyers in all the federal states of Austria. They point out again and again that this party positioning rule must be incorporated into the Telecommunications Act. We have already made a request for this, so I do not want to put this request back again today. But I would urge that this request be negotiated in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9845	The last speaker was Mr Wallner. Mr deputies, you have a two-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9863	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law creates legal certainty and helps to avoid unnecessary court proceedings. I believe that it is the best possible use of the remaining frequencies of the 1 800 megahertz band and also to prevent a temporary monopoly of the third provider. The two previous operators now have the opportunity to receive 5 megahertz twice each on the 1 800 megahertz frequency band if they can prove their use. This will probably be the case in the autumn of this year. Also this year, a fourth federal concession will be auctioned. Negotiations are still pending in the area of regional frequencies. A frequency-use plan must be drawn up for this purpose. Finally, I would like to say that this law will make a good balance between the interests of the established and the newly added providers. For consumers, I hope the new competitive situation will have a positive impact.
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9894	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now voting. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1188 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I also now ask for a sign of approval. - The draft was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haigermoser and Mr Comrades on measures against the mobile telephone station forest. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Haigermoser is asleep!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where is he?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. - That's the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Statement on the absence of a Member
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9952	I note that Mr Rosenstingl did not appear at this meeting either. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1998-06-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00128_d7e9976	At today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 804/A to 806/A. Question 4528/J to 4530/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 17. June 1998, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
